

601 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Real Men of Genius

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn, a regular contributor to the Book Review, is the author of ''They Knew They Were Right: The Rise of the Neocons.''

 BODY:
SOLDIERS OF REASON
 The RAND Corporation and the Rise of the American Empire
 By Alex Abella
 Illustrated. 388 pp. Harcourt. $27
 In 1960, Herman Kahn, a fellow at the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica and a model for the character Dr. Strangelove, published a book, ''On Thermonuclear War,'' in which he made the case for limited nuclear war by way of championing civil defense. The effects of radioactive fallout, he argued, were grossly exaggerated. Americans could hide in backyard shelters, deep caverns and fortified mine shafts. Kahn further suggested that food might be labeled according to its contamination level, with the degree expressed in five different grades; grade D food would thus be restricted to people over 40 or 50, and E would be for animals. 
 Kahn's colleagues weren't amused. ''Burn it'' was the lapidary verdict of his chum and rival Albert Wohlstetter, when he saw the tome in manuscript form. Perhaps Wohlstetter, a gourmand and oenophile, was most enraged by the suggestion that grade D would be acceptable fare. Other aggrieved RAND scholars felt the book trivialized their sophisticated theories about nuclear warfare. But as Alex Abella suggests in ''Soldiers of Reason,'' an entertaining and fast-paced account of the RAND Corporation, Kahn ended up inadvertently capturing something essential about the madcap think-tank world of the defense intellectuals, which was permeated with jargon like ''N + 1'' and ''counterforce first strike.'' 
 RAND, which Pravda called ''the academy of science and death,'' was the brainchild of the Army Air Forces. It was established in 1946, at the start of the postwar era, when American social scientists believed economics could solve political and strategic problems by reducing them to their essence through mathematical constructs based on game theory. RAND analysts tended to forget, however, that they were discussing the actions of human beings. Such hubris would eventually help land America in Vietnam, where the Vietcong refused to behave according to the tidy models of warfare and nation-building that RAND scholars had constructed and that Defense Secretary Robert McNamara had employed, as he pointed to his charts and rattled off statistics about body counts and the efficacy of strategic bombing. Still, some RAND analysts soured on the war: Daniel Ellsberg leaked the Pentagon Papers and resigned soon thereafter. 
 And in the sphere of nuclear strategy, RAND did score significant early successes. Abella correctly focuses on the role of Wohlstetter, who made his name in the early 1950s with a study diagnosing the vulnerability of the Strategic Air Command's nuclear bombers to a Soviet pre-emptive strike. As the decades went by, Wohlstetter never stopped emphasizing the importance of being prepared for a surprise attack (his wife, Roberta, had brilliantly chronicled one in a study of Pearl Harbor). His contribution was to argue for a version of deterrence that relied on what became known as a second-strike capability -- the ability to absorb a first blow and retaliate. According to Abella, Wohlstetter believed that ''it behooved someone with his knowledge to anticipate the worst eventuality, so that once ready for it, it might not happen at all.'' 
 As Abella reminds us, Wohlstetter was at the forefront of the intellectual battle, in the 1970s, to knock the struts out from Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger's (and later Gerald Ford's) support for detente with the Soviet Union. Wohlstetter warned that both Democrats and liberal Republicans were underestimating the size of the Soviet arsenal. 
 One result was the government's creation of ''Team B,'' made up of hawks who challenged the C.I.A.'s estimates of the Kremlin's nuclear force. How influential Team B really was is questionable. But it did serve as a precursor of the Bush administration's efforts to prod the C.I.A. into offering worst-case assessments of Saddam Hussein's regime. (Indeed, earlier this year The New York Times reported that the Army had buried a 2005 RAND study that was highly critical of the planning for postwar Iraq.) Abella traces it all back to RAND analysts and neoconservatives, whose gloomy view of the cold war, he argues, triumphed during the Reagan years. But the truth is that the Reagan administration wasn't simply the handmaiden of the RAND Corporation and the neocons. It was responding to a real threat. 
 Abella, co-author of ''Shadow Enemies: Hitler's Secret Terrorist Plot Against the United States,'' is too quick to dismiss American apprehensions as ''paranoia.'' Also, some of his assertions lack context. He writes that the Reagan administration's ''cavalier attitude toward nuclear war and its insistence on placing new midrange missiles in Europe provoked a crisis in the Soviet Union.'' He fails to note that Jimmy Carter, at the urging of Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of West Germany, approved the stationing of Pershing missiles in Western Europe -- and that the Soviet Union originally created the showdown by installing SS-20 missiles in its Eastern European satrapies. Anyway, Reagan hated the idea of nuclear conflict and wound down the cold war. 
 Where Abella excels is in his descriptions of the colorful characters who populated RAND at its inception, like the mathematician John Davis Williams, who ''personified what would become hallmarks of RANDites -- a love of pleasures of the flesh, a dedication to abstract theory, and a sense of absolute self-righteousness married to an amoral approach to politics and policy.'' 
 He might have speculated about the psychological puzzle presented by a group of sybaritic eccentrics engaging in desiccated activities like ''systems analysis'' and trying to turn the foibles of the rest of humanity into data points. But now that RAND no longer boasts them, it is surely a far duller place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herman Kahn, 1968. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN LOENGARD/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ARMIES (79%); VIETNAM WAR (79%); BOMBINGS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); AIR FORCES (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (52%)

TITLE: Soldiers of Reason (Book)>; Soldiers of Reason (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



602 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Florida, Before the Storm

BYLINE: By KAREN BROWN. 
Karen Brown is the author of the story collection ''Pins and Needles.''

DATELINE: Tampa, Fla. 

 BODY:
 MY neighborhood is a grid of cement-block places and bungalows with metal awnings built at a time when the city's main roads had yet to be paved. Now there are new Mediterranean-style houses constructed side by side on lots so small you might safely toss a water balloon between the two upper-story windows. 
 We are in many ways as typical a neighborhood as Cheever's Shady Hill. Our backyard terraces hold flowering crape myrtle and gardenia, orchid trees, palms and stainless-steel Weber grills. We believe it is a moral duty to keep our lawns mowed and tidy. Real estate agents advertise our proximity to the airport, downtown and the business district.
 Our schools, both public and private, battle it out for newer and better renovations: modern playground equipment, greener playing fields, real cast-iron fences. Children are ferried to school by mothers who have not been forced by conscience or economy to give up their Hummers and Range Rovers, who advertise their affiliations on their tinted back windows: St. Mary's Saints, Plant Panthers, Coleman Cobras. In the last presidential election the fashion had been the single white ''W.'' 
 This election year is different. The ''W's'' have been long excised. The few that remain are faded and out of style. There isn't a new catchy sticker yet. There are no signs, either, just a few birthday party placards and some Mylar balloons tied to mailboxes. 
 Among the ''for rent'' and ''for sale'' signs the lawns are quiet, proclaiming nothing. It is September and in Florida still summer. We are caught in a lull. The pools are bathwater warm. The geraniums are bare stems, dead from the heat. My neighborhood is the same as always, broadcasting a perfect changelessness in this year of forecasted change. 
 Mothers push their children in strollers along the asphalt grid and in their faces is a blank inconclusiveness. Our cars line up at dismissal time at the elementary school with the air-conditioners running, fill the parking lots of Publix supermarket, Target, the Methodist and Presbyterian and Catholic churches, the high school on football night. They are mothers who know, perhaps, that one of them was spotted buying a brown-bagged tall boy at the convenience store at 10 a.m., and that another was caught on a nanny cam with the neighbor. They are immersed in the endless pickups and drop offs, the shopping and preparing, the organizing and charitable giving. Perhaps they are too involved in the tasks of motherhood to proclaim any more affiliations, or they recognize that what they are seeking is a change that doesn't compromise their own happy sameness. 
 For now, at least until the sign company fills its orders, my neighbors appear to follow their normal patterns, maintaining silence like proper suburbanites. This time of year, elsewhere, people put away their grills and pull down storm windows. Here it is daylight until eight. In the evening, you can smell the night-blooming jasmine and grilling meat. Soon the citrus will flower, and gardeners will get their second season. The news media announce the rise and fall of polls, the presence of tropical disturbances that may, any day now, become storms. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CRAZYIEYE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); CHARITIES (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); RELIGION (60%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA PANTHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



603 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: A Land of Opportunity Lures Poles Back Home

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
For 19 years, Elizabeth Baumgartner, a Polish-American from Queens, has been publishing a series of how-to books aimed at newly arrived Polish immigrants trying to find their way in the United States. The books cover topics like buying a house, investing in mutual funds and starting your own business.
 These days, however, her best sellers are guides to a once-familiar place, Poland, with titles like ''Returning to Poland'' and ''Retirement of a Re-Immigrant in Poland.'' 
 ''This is a sad trend for me,'' Ms. Baumgartner said. 
 New York's Polish community is shrinking, as waves of immigrants and their families are being lured back to Poland by a vibrant economy there. 
 Tighter immigration enforcement, gentrification and the overall aging of the Polish population have contributed to the decline. But the biggest catalyst, community leaders say, was Poland's admission to the European Union in 2004, which created immense employment opportunities for Poles in Europe and spurred a return migration. 
 At the same time, the influx of new Polish immigrants to New York has slowed to a trickle, these community leaders say. As a result, the population of Polish-born people in New York declined to 60,153 in 2006, down from 65,246 in 2000, a 7.8 percent drop, according to the Department of City Planning. During the same span, the number of New Yorkers claiming Polish ancestry fell to 211,389 from 213,447. 
 The erosion has been felt most deeply in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where Poles have been migrating for decades. Polish businesses are losing customers and closing down. Polish employers are struggling to find Polish-speaking workers. The sale of one-way tickets for flights from New York to Poland is soaring. 
 Tomasz Deptula, an editor and columnist at Nowy Dziennik (The Polish Daily News), the oldest of three Polish-language dailies published in New York, said that unlike the rest of the city's ethnic media, which is robust, his paper's advertising revenues and circulation numbers have fallen precipitously in recent years, forcing staffing cuts. 
 ''It's a rather sad story, especially from my point of view,'' he said. ''I'm feeling like I'm facing extinction.'' 
 Even before the migration back to Poland began, the Polish community in Greenpoint was fracturing under the pressure of gentrification, which drove up property values. Young families, new immigrants and those of modest means have in turn settled in nascent Polish communities in the city, including Maspeth and Ridgewood in Queens, and Borough Park in Brooklyn, while others have moved out of the state. 
 But Poland's admission to the European Union sharply accelerated that trend, business owners and residents say. They note that the momentum has increased as the dollar has weakened against the Polish zloty, the American economy has faltered and the United States has been more aggressive in enforcing immigration rules. (Similar reverse migrations have occurred recently among other New York immigrant populations whose homeland economies have improved, like Brazil and Ireland.)
 Meanwhile, many Poles, particularly young people who once might have considered coming to the states after high school or college, have decided instead to stay in Poland or get work in Dublin, London or other booming European cities. The euro is robust, they argue, and home is never more than a cheap two-hour flight away. 
 LOT Polish Airlines, Poland's largest carrier, is carrying more passengers from New York to Poland than in the opposite direction, said Andrzej Kozlowski, a media relations officer for the airline in Warsaw. ''The trend here is clear and the gap is widening,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 While Polish shop signs and Polish conversations still dominate Greenpoint's main street, Manhattan Avenue, evidence of erosion is ubiquitous, from shuttered Polish stores to shorter lines at the Polish butcher shops and the proliferation of new businesses catering to the newcomers, like Thai restaurants.
 Polish-American business owners in Greenpoint have had to be nimble -- reinventing themselves to adjust to the neighborhood's demographic shifts -- or go out of business. 
 Polish bookstores, for instance, have increased their stock of English books, and one recently began to sell lamps. Other businesses have followed their customers and moved out of Greenpoint into the newer Polish enclaves. 
 The Polish & Slavic Federal Credit Union, which was founded in 1976 and became a crucial engine for the development of Greenpoint, has seen its membership level out in the past few years. 
 In response, the bank is ''reaching into new markets,'' said Marian M. Ponanta, vice president of marketing and public relations for the credit union. A new branch recently opened in Garfield, N.J., and two others are scheduled to open in Maspeth and Trenton. The bank has also stepped up its advertising in the quest for new members. 
 ''Before, we didn't have to do much marketing,'' Mr. Ponanta said. ''They would come to us. They would be thrown into our laps.'' 
 Every Polish-American in the New York region seems to know several people who have either moved back to Poland in the past few years or are considering such a move. Many of those people are college-educated and in their 20s and 30s. 
 Three years ago, Monika Just left her native Poland and came to New York on a six-month tourist visa with plans to start a new life in the United States. She found a job as a waitress, worked long hours and lived cheaply. 
 In an earlier time, she might have been among the thousands of young Polish immigrants who, after several years of working as restaurant servers, housecleaners, construction workers or nannies, might have decided to make a longer commitment to the United States, investing in property, starting businesses, trying to become naturalized and raising families.
 But like many of her compatriots, Ms. Just has decided to bring her American experience to an abrupt end. Weary of living as an illegal immigrant and settling for low wages, she is planning to return to Poland for good in December. There, she said, her employment prospects will be better and her lifestyle will improve. 
 ''I don't have a life here,'' said Ms. Just, 26, as she prepared for the lunchtime rush at a restaurant in Greenpoint. ''I just have a job. All I do is work.''
 Not all the returnees are young and flying under the immigration radar. There are also many who have lived legally in the United States for years, built families and businesses here, and are now pulling up stakes and going home. 
 Some entrepreneurs, seeing a great business opportunity in the economic opening of 2004, quickly closed their enterprises in New York and built new ones in Poland. 
 Others have come to the decision after much angst-ridden reflection.
 Malgosia Szupica-Pyrzanowski, 39, who immigrated to the United States 18 years ago, said that she and her husband, Darek Pyrzanowski, 46, who immigrated 22 years ago, planned to return to Poland next year with their two young children. 
 Ms. Szupica-Pyrzanowski, a doctoral candidate in neurolinguistics at the City University of New York, said that Poland's economic improvement was among several key reasons for their return. But it was a hard decision to make, she said, especially for her husband, a professional D.J.
 ''You have to be courageous to go back,'' Ms. Szupica-Pyrzanowski said. ''You remove yourself from a rather comfortable life here and go back to your own country, but it's not the country that you left. I think he was lacking this courage for quite some time.'' 
 For those Poles who have developed businesses and lives that are not dependent on the Polish community for sustenance, the changes have not been terribly disruptive. For some, particularly those Poles who invested in Greenpoint property when it was a blighted neighborhood, the gentrification has been a boon. 
 Krzysztof Rostek, a prominent Polish-American developer in Greenpoint, said that he has benefited from the rise in property values. He has built 10 residential buildings around the neighborhood and is currently building eight more; many of his buyers are newcomers to the neighborhood. 
 He is not sentimental about the neighborhood's upheaval or the dissipation of the Polish-American community. 
 ''Nothing is guaranteed forever, so I'm always open to change,'' said Mr. Rostek, 42, whose first job after arriving in New York in 1989 was working as a $5-per-hour assistant at a Polish deli in Greenpoint. 
 He pointed out that Greenpoint, like most other New York neighborhoods, has had a revolving ethnic makeup since the 18th century, with Italians, Germans, Irish and Latinos holding sway at various times. 
 ''The neighborhood is changing for the better,'' he said. ''That's what the city is all about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Although Polish storefronts still dominate Manhattan Avenue in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, some businesses have closed and others have broadened their offerings to attract a more diverse clientele. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Signs of the changing demographics in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, are evident, as one local business promotes its ability to speak Spanish and Polish. Marek Tomaszewski, right, edited Polski Dzien, a Polish-language newspaper that was forced to fold. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A37)
As the Polish population in Greenpoint shrinks, familiar retail chains are replacing stores that catered to Poles. One business that has survived is a travel-oriented agency run by Grazyna Bulka, left. The agency, however, is now selling more one-way tickets to Poland from New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); TRENDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); WRITERS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (75%); AGING TRENDS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); CITIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); POLAND (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



604 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Considering the Seven-Year Plan

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THINKING about moving out of your home and buying another? You may find cautious counsel from an unlikely source: your loan officer.
 Some suggest not moving, unless you expect to stay in the new home for at least seven years. That is the advice of Thomas Vanderwell, a frequent writer about real estate issues on the Internet who is a mortgage officer at Fifth Third Bank, which is based in Cincinnati but offers home loans in many states including New York.
 Given current real estate trends, it will come as little surprise to learn that most buyers who move from existing homes will lose money if they move again in the short term. 
 Mr. Vanderwell, who blogs at StraightTalkAboutMortgages.com among other sites, noted that owners who sell a $300,000 home, for instance, will pay roughly $24,000 in commissions and other fees, and another $2,000 to $3,000 in closing costs on the new mortgage. Most real estate projections, Mr. Vanderwell said, suggest that prices will drop a bit and then flatten over the next two years, then slowly recover over the following five years, appreciating at an annual rate of 2 percent to 3 percent.
 Mostly because of the expenses involved in selling one's existing home, Mr. Vanderwell said: ''You'd need 11 percent appreciation'' -- over seven years -- ''just to get you back to where you started.'' That holds true, he said, even if interest rates drop significantly. 
 ''You'll spend less money over those first seven years if you've got a lower rate, but in terms of what the house will be worth,'' he said, ''I'm not sure it makes a substantial difference.''
 People who are renting, Mr. Vanderwell said, and who find a good deal on a home, should take into consideration the length of time that they plan on staying in the home because they will still need to recoup the fees they pay when they eventually sell it. But there are other factors to consider, like the difference between rental payments and mortgage costs, tax deductions for mortgage interest and, up to a point, mortgage insurance premiums.
 Mr. Vanderwell's ''stay put'' stance for existing homeowners is unusual for lenders, who often steer clear of offering such advice. Indeed, Melissa Cohn, president of Manhattan Mortgage Inc., a mortgage broker, said it is not a lender's place to offer such counsel at all. ''As brokers, it's not our job to tell people to buy or not to buy,'' she said. ''It's the real estate broker's job to sell the apartment or house to the buyer, and it's my job to help the buyer achieve their goal.'' Ms. Cohn added that such advice ''puts us in conflict with the people who actually give us business,'' referring to the real estate brokers who send customers their way. 
 Ms. Cohn and other brokers, especially in high-cost areas like Manhattan, are recommending that borrowers buy before the end of the year, when interest rates are likely to rise for loans greater than $629,000. (Until then, only loans above $729,750 carry the ''jumbo'' premium of half a percentage point or more.)
 Mr. Vanderwell's seven-year theory, Ms. Cohn said, may not be valid in Manhattan, where average prices are up over last year, in part because of some very large deals. That strength is in sharp contrast to other parts of the country. In recent months, data for Manhattan has been skewed, Ms. Cohn said, by sales at 15 Central Park West and the Plaza, where apartments often sell for tens of millions of dollars. ''Now that most of those deals have closed,'' she said, ''we can hopefully see where most of the prices have settled.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Index for Adjustable rate Mortgages (Source: MSM Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (57%)

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (72%)

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



605 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; LAW ENFORCEMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Bank Robberies Drawing Attention of Police, and Criminals

BYLINE: By SHELLY FEUER DOMASH

 BODY:
NASSAU COUNTY officials are scrambling to combat a record number of bank robberies in 2008. By the end of August, more bank robberies had already been committed in Nassau than in any previous year.
 At this point in 2008, 69 banks have been robbed; last year the total was 52. In 2006, the county reached what officials then called a record of 62 bank robberies. That number was a substantial increase over prior years, tripling the year-end total of 21 in 2002. With the number declining last year, officials had hoped the upward trend had ended.
 John Giambrone, a detective sergeant who is the head of the county's robbery squad, said he was determined to find the cause of the recent increase and stop it. 
 ''We always have our usual people that have some sort of addiction, drugs or alcohol or gambling,'' he said. ''A lot is heroin-use related,'' he said, adding, ''I would think the economy would also have an effect.''
 Sergeant Giambrone also says that there are a lot of people who are down on their luck and think that robbing banks is an easy way out. ''They read about it in the media or see it on TV and they figure if it works for the other guy, it would work for me,'' he said, adding that increases in robberies often reflect a pattern of crimes involving one person committing more than one robbery. 
 Last May, a 41-year-old Levittown man, Michael Miller, was arrested by the Nassau police and charged with 17 bank robberies spanning three years. Eight occurred in 2006, three in 2007 and six in 2008. 
 Suffolk County has not seen the same spike in bank robberies as Nassau, but Sgt. Robert Doyle, a detective who is the commanding officer of the major case investigations unit, said that did not mean the county was breathing easily.
 ''We have been about a year behind in Nassau County's big increases,'' he said. ''Nassau County is ahead and so is New York City. If the trend continues, I would expect next year's numbers might be higher.''
 In 2006, according to Sergeant Doyle, Suffolk reported 52 bank robberies, a 100 percent increase over the prior year. In 2007 the number went down to 48. Through mid-August of this year, the county had 28 bank robberies, ''which puts us on track for the same as last year,'' he said.
 An important factor to consider in both counties is the targets themselves, Sergeant Doyle said. 
 ''The number of banks in both Nassau and Suffolk is huge,'' he said. ''Suffolk has 475 bank branches, and Nassau has an even higher number.''
 Robert D. McCrie, a professor of security management at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, says the ''robber friendly'' atmosphere at banks increases their chances of being robbed.
 ''In this environment, a note passer learns they can get a sum of money quickly, safely and be in and out. Similarly, banks have made their branches more user friendly,'' he said, adding: ''If something is happening outside of this pattern, like what is happening in Nassau County, that probably suggests repetitive behavior on the part of robbers that can influence a few people. A person may be mimicking their behavior and riding on their coattails and doing so successfully because banks are more concerned with marketing issues than security issues.'' 
 In August, Nassau officials met with members of the banking industry to address the increase in robberies. 
 ''We asked them to review their policies and the way they police their banks in an effort to cut down robberies or help us increase our apprehensions,'' said Sergeant Giambrone.
 He added that the bank representatives were receptive, but that the meeting was just a few weeks ago.
 ''We are expecting more changes in the future,'' he said.
 According to Sgt. Anthony Repalone, a spokesman for the Nassau County Police: ''We suggested much better technical equipment that would enhance the photographs taken of these bank robbers and that they be taken at better angles, making it easier to identify individuals. We also suggested training tellers to perhaps warn or make other employees of the bank aware if they are being robbed so that we could have more eyewitness identification by employees of the bank.'' 
 Sergeant Repalone said the police also recommended greater use of technology that helps identify and track stolen money.
 He said that the meeting, intended to improve the arrest rate of bank robbers and provide greater protection for bank employees and customers, was attended by representatives of about 50 banks and was well received. 
 ''Many of the institutions were going back to their managers to discuss these strategies to enhance their security and safety procedures,'' the sergeant said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TARGETS: The sheer number of banks on Long Island, like this Commerce branch in Franklin Square, invites robberies, officials say. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK ROBBERY (95%); ROBBERY (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); ARRESTS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); HEROIN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



606 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Pollution Scores, in Plain Sight

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
 FIFTY years after an Oklahoma senator, Mike Monroney, made sure that all automakers put labels on their cars with detailed price information, California's regulators are following suit with a label that reflects modern values. Instead of telling buyers the car's retail price and the cost of its options, the labels, which must appear on all new cars in California dealerships on Jan. 1, indicate how much pollution the car produces. 
 Following the specifications laid out in a 2005 California law -- and in keeping with the symbolism of environmental consciousness -- the labels will be black and white and, of course, green. Placed on the driver's side rear window in most cases, they will display two scores, one for smog-forming pollutants and one for heat-trapping gases, on scales of 1 (the worst rating) to 10. 
 Daniel Kalb, a policy coordinator for California at the Union of Concerned Scientists, helped draft the original pollution-label law. ''We think that of new car buyers in California, a large portion want to get cars that meet their needs and don't pollute,'' he said. ''Here's information to let them do that.''
 In fact, his group has already been compiling comparisons from federal data provided to the California Air Resources Board, the state agency that does the grading. For instance, a Toyota Corolla sedan, one of the nation's best-selling models, gets a middling score of 5 on smog but a 7 on greenhouse-gas emissions, which are closely correlated with fuel consumption. By contrast, the Honda Civic Hybrid scores an 9 on smog-producing emissions and a 10 on greenhouse gases. The Dodge Caravan minivan gets a 5 on the smog scale, but falls to a 3 on the global-warming meter, and the Nissan Titan pickup gets a 4 on the smog rating and the lowest rating possible, 1, on greenhouse gases.
 The design of the label, and the way it would mesh with the existing Monroney label and a smaller smog label already required in California, was decided in part by customer research, said Craig Duehring, an engineer with California's Air Resources Board. ''There was no marketing survey,'' he said. ''However, we did do focus groups to get a sense of what the consumer wanted.'' 
 After finding there was extensive consumer confusion over the old smog label, he said, the board decided to put both global warming and smog ratings in one place but otherwise keep the new labels as simple as possible.
 For some, it is too simple. Jennifer Moore, a spokeswoman for Ford Motor Company, said, ''As I understand it, the new label is a lot bigger and a lot greener.'' 
 She added: ''But it doesn't allow for product differentiation,'' between, say, cars and light trucks with automatic transmissions versus manual ones, or between four-wheel-drive cars and two-wheel-drive models. She pointed out that an Environmental Protection Agency Web site, fueleconomy.gov, provides this kind of detail and ''may be more valuable to customers.''
 The new labels are arriving at a time when shoppers are ever- more conscious about the environmental impact of their purchase decisions. But with the downturn in the economy and the credit crunch, customers are becoming scarcer in California and around the country. Crystal Jack, a spokeswoman for the California Motor Car Dealers Association, said the group's economist had forecast a 14 percent drop in sales in 2008, compared with 2007 -- a total of about 1.6 million vehicles, more than half a million fewer than the peak year of 2005.
 When the dealers' group testified against the label legislation in 2005, unsuccessfully, Mr. Kalb, of the scientists' group, was an opponent of their efforts. He has recently become more welcome at dealerships, though not because of any change in his label preferences. It's because he and his wife are shopping for a car, trying to choose between a Toyota Camry Hybrid and a Prius. 
 But, even though carmakers were able to start using the labels as early as July 1, the Kalbs have seen none.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DISCLOSURE: Emissions labels become mandatory for new cars in California on Jan. 1.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); SMOG (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PRODUCT LABELING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); MINIVANS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); SEDANS (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



607 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 112

LENGTH: 2914 words

HEADLINE: The Money Pit

BYLINE: BY PANKAJ MISHRA

 BODY:
Hong Kong is a great clamor. Arriving recently after a long flight from London, I felt as though I had stumbled into a feverish old dream of the Orient. The city is defined by an overwhelming intensity of life, an excess that is rendered more confounding by the familiar linear background of a Western-style metropolis. Crowds flow ceaselessly on the pavements and elevated walkways and mill about in the cathedral-like malls; radios and television sets blare from the grilled windows of dollhouse-like apartments; giant video ads loom and wink above the waiting phalanxes of commuters at striped crossings; and the noise of electric drills follows you everywhere until even the plump, glossy ducklings that hang quivering in restaurant windows appear to have been infused with the city's special vitality. 
 But Hong Kong, which was raised out of bare rock into glittering city-state by capitalism in just over a century, doesn't take long to reveal its implacable inner logic. From Norman Foster's giddily spacious airport to Cesar Pelli's twin International Finance Center towers to the humble pedestrian underpass in Kowloon that diverts the unsuspecting flaneur to a Louis Vuitton store, all of it has been ingeniously designed to inject fresh ecstasy into the immemorial human need to make -- and squander -- money. 
 As I wandered Hong Kong on this visit, the city's handover to Communist China in 1997 seemed oddly distant. Despite predictions of its demise -- a 1995 Fortune magazine cover story announced ''The Death of Hong Kong'' -- more than a decade later, the city continues to thrive. Democracy is a receding dream for Hong Kong's seven million citizens, many of whom suffer too from severe economic inequality and some of the world's most polluted air (karmically poisoned by factories in the Pearl River Delta financed, in part, by Hong Kong investors). But the taipans -- the foreign traders and businessmen who made the city the world's great entrepot to China, whose descendants still dwell in their white villas on Victoria Peak -- have rarely been happier. 
 Hong Kong, with its reliable legal and financial systems, has proved to be the perfect gateway to its big neighbor, whose Communist rulers, themselves in the midst of a radical experiment with capitalism they insist on calling ''socialism with Chinese characteristics,'' have adjusted happily to Hong Kong's laissez-faire traditions. Although recently its economy has cooled somewhat, along with most of the rest of the world's, the city's stock market has nonetheless set new records, largely because of Chinese companies that now account for just over half of its capitalization. In the last two years, Hong Kong has surpassed New York and rivals London as the world's biggest market for initial public stock offerings. Property prices have risen sharply. Only London, Moscow, New York and Istanbul have more billionaires. 
 Consequently, I saw more Rolls-Royces on the streets than ever, and the racecourse in Happy Valley was overflowing with local plutocrats in jewels, minks and chinchillas (yes, pelts remain a sought-after accessory in humid Hong Kong). One evening at the ultratrendy Kee Club in Hong Kong's own SoHo, I may have been the only person worrying about the steeply rising tab as vintage Veuve Clicquot flowed with abandon across several tables. In the end it wasn't clear who paid -- the brash tycoon from the local Indian business family or the slick French exporter visiting from Shanghai -- and it did not seem to matter. 
 But there are less obvious developments afoot. For decades under the British, Hong Kong was a standing reproach to backward and musty China, its shiny affluence and consumerism envied by the poor cousins to the north. It was the capital of Canto-pop, the popular Western-style music that once thrilled the vast Chinese-speaking world; it was famous for its movies. (Local cineastes will tell you proudly how the Hong Kong director John Woo influenced Quentin Tarantino.) 
 Now the city is tied inseparably to China's economy and dwarfed by the mainland's huge Mandarin-speaking population. Rather than sending its movie and pop-music stars to the north, Hong Kong now merely swells the bank accounts of the actresses, astronauts, pianists, models and Olympic athletes who have already attained idol status in China. In the central business district here (a k a Central), mainlanders educated overseas are more prized than their English- and Cantonese-speaking peers. Taxi drivers take crash courses in Mandarin, which was once rarely heard here, in order to converse with the Chinese tourists who account for over half of Hong Kong's 28 million visitors annually. 
 How will Hong Kong, freshly and profoundly dependent on China, define itself? Will it be eclipsed by Shanghai and Beijing or evolve a distinctive cultural identity? I often found myself pondering these questions, fixated by the view of Kowloon and mainland China from my room at the Four Seasons Hotel, one of the new steel-and-glass monoliths that strut their stuff on reclaimed land in Central. 
 Traditionally low-rise because of the old airport in its midst, Kowloon is now free to partake of Hong Kong's real estate boom. The International Commerce Center, projected to be the third-tallest building in the world, is going up on freshly reclaimed land there. At night a sign shone forlornly underneath Kowloon's looming cranes, identifying the building site as the West Kowloon Cultural District. This is where the largest urban arts and cultural district in Asia -- several times bigger than Lincoln Center in New York -- was to sprawl, at least as originally planned by the Hong Kong's Special Administrative Region (SAR) government in 1998. A master plan by Norman Foster offered a beguiling fantasy of museums, performance spaces, art schools, galleries and studios under a transparent canopy. The project was soon tainted by allegations that the government was colluding with developers. But it did not fail to reveal the deep new desires of Hong Kong's rich and powerful.
 Apparently satiated with wealth and luxury, they have developed cultural ambitions and often come up with the wherewithal to fulfill them. In 2004 the Hong Kong Philharmonic acquired a world-class conductor, Edo de Waart. Earlier this year, the annual Hong Kong Arts Festival played host to Ornette Coleman and Pina Bausch, and the city, which showcases some of the more adventurous work of I. M. Pei and Zaha Hadid, held its first architecture biennale as well as its first international modern and contemporary art fair. Hong Kong's government has even grander plans to present the city as an emblem of cultural as well as economic globalization. Official Web sites, as well as banners, buses and billboards across the city, declare Hong Kong ''Asia's world city.''
 There may be some truth in this. Shanghai and Beijing are, despite their glossy Western veneers, profoundly Chinese cities, marked by vast hinterlands and dominated by Mandarin speakers. I have never felt anything but a foreigner in them, whereas Hong Kong, whose economic foundations were laid by foreign businessmen and Chinese fleeing war and revolution on the mainland, has always struck me as the New World to China's Old, the place where new, plural identities are possible. 
 One afternoon I had lunch at the Foreign Correspondents' Club, which occupies an old icehouse on one of Central's winding roads, and features in one of John le Carre's early novels. The wood-paneled club has its traditions; the front page of The International Herald Tribune is still framed and hung daily in the bathroom above the urinal. In this setting of old imperial confidence, I was not surprised to hear Peter Gordon -- an American expat who has lived in Hong Kong for 23 years, writes a weekly column for The Standard, one of Hong Kong's English newspapers, and is the chairman of the city's annual literary prize -- insist that the city, which is cosmopolitan by nature and necessity, could really become the ''world's second capital,'' after New York. 
 Such extravagant visions invite a snigger from those who have known Hong Kong as a staunchly philistine city. Occasionally, strolling through the city's interminable malls, I felt surrounded by people to whom, in the withering description of John Chan, the essayist and founder of City Magazine, ''nothing has happened.'' One evening, as I walked out from the venerable Peninsula Hotel in Kowloon, I was momentarily stunned by the obstreperously commercial skyline and wondered whether Hong Kong even needs culture at all. 
 Certainly it has no lack of opportunity for leisure and entertainment. Hong Kong's very own Disneyland with Chinese characteristics opened in 2005 on Lantau, the biggest island in the archipelago. A helicopter briskly transports you to Shenzhen, where Nick Faldo, Greg Norman and Vijay Singh have helped design the world's largest golf facility. Picture-postcard fishing villages on Lamma Island fulfill the craving for the pastoral that periodically overtakes one in the middle of unrelenting human density. The beaches on the island's relatively uncluttered south side are still remarkably clean, and the colonial-style veranda of the Repulse Bay Hotel is a good place to while away a lazy afternoon. 
 Though no longer as seedy as before, night life still flourishes in the alleys of hilly Lan Kwai Fong. Many afternoons I found myself taking the elevated pedestrian escalator that snakes past this area, offering glimpses of squeezed-in lives in tower-blocks: potted plants, flickering televisions, washing poles, mah-jongg tables, the smells of Chinese herbs. I was fascinated, too, by the subterranean arcades in subway stations -- especially at East Tsim Sha Tsui, where the MTR line meets with the KCR -- which are equally unforgettable spectacles of light and energy. 
 Then, too, Hong Kong has terrific food, arguably the most cosmopolitan variety in Asia because of the immigrants and expatriates who have brought to the city their own culinary traditions. Vegetarians like me pose a perennial challenge to Western-style chefs like Michelle Garnaut, an Australian expatriate who runs M at the Fringe, a small, elegant restaurant housed in the famous colonial-era Fringe Club. But it didn't take her long to improvise one evening, with her gift of inventive fusion, a special ''Persian platter'' of eggplant, eggs, feta and fresh herbs.
 Hong Kong's easily consumable cosmopolitanism probably deepened the government's self-congratulatory mood during last year's 10th anniversary of the handover. But the cultural question still looms large. With the vast, rich hinterland of China to draw upon, Hong Kong is at least theoretically better placed than cities like Dubai and Abu Dhabi to buy culture for local consumption. And yet no jaded robber barons, Hong Kong's own Fricks and Carnegies, have expressed an interest in building or stocking museums. The discovery of contemporary Chinese art, expedited by such connoisseurs as David Tang, the founder of Shanghai Tang, and Johnson Chang, the owner of Hanart TZ, Hong Kong's leading art gallery, has not spawned a culture of artistic appreciation here; rather, it has turned into a lucrative multibillion-dollar business in which local auction houses simply sell to private collectors.
 One evening at the rooftop lounge of the Four Seasons, I met with Perry Lam, the editorial director of Muse, a boldly highbrow new culture magazine, who said that the city's affluence had yet to incite an explosion of new writing or ideas. We sat before a panoramic view of the harbor where, at dawn and late in the evening, the rusty junks, barges and sampans on the jade green sea and the old green and white boats of Star Ferry crisscrossing Victoria Harbor seem to have come out of the etchings and watercolors done by the British officials who founded Hong Kong in the 19th century. Lam told me that he grew up in Hong Kong reading The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books; his desire is to emulate those magazines, and he has, he told me, sufficient financial backing for what is very likely a losing commercial proposition. Yet he seemed pessimistic. He said that although long blessed with more freedom than China, Hong Kong had yet to produce a world-class writer. Last year's inaugural Man Asian Literary Prize (the equivalent of Britain's Booker) was won by a writer from mainland China. 
 ''The culture here is all about winning and losing money,'' I was assured by Augustine Mok, one of the city's respected theater directors and a political activist. We were having a dim sum lunch at Super Star in Wanchai, surrounded by noisy families fluttering their chopsticks over tables of steamed dumplings. Mok has strikingly long white hair; performing street theater before largely indifferent audiences, he stands out in Hong Kong. He told me that he had agreed to appear in a list of the ''beautiful losers in HK arts and culture'' in the debut issue of Muse, because anyone interested in the arts in Hong Kong could only be a ''loser.'' 
 The Taiwanese essayist Lung Yingtai, who now teaches at Hong Kong University, echoes this sentiment. ''In Hong Kong,'' she wrote in a scathing article in the newspaper Apple Daily, ''economic benefit is the core value for all decision-making, and development is the sole ideology.'' It is true that the city has little regard for its own architectural heritage -- or what remains of it after decades of depredations. In 2006 the government pulled down the charming old Star Ferry pier (an act of vandalism comparable in impact to the destruction of the old Penn Station in New York), replacing it with a faux-Edwardian structure that is conveniently linked by elevated walkway to the I.F.C. shopping mall. The city's blithe self-purging verifies Karl Marx's famous dictum about the ruthlessness of capitalistic progress: ''All that is solid melts into thin air.'' 
 But then a city built almost entirely by immigrants, and seen by many of them as a place of transit, cannot escape a certain rootless quality. This lightness of being partly explains why Hong Kong never developed a distinctive culture of its own -- unlike its sister port city, Shanghai, which, although overwhelmed recently by development, has actually managed to preserve some of its old neighborhoods. 
 Hong Kong, Perry Lam told me, ''is suffering from a serious identity crisis.'' Again, this may be because, unlike Shanghai, where the humiliations of foreign rule spurred literature and art as well as nationalism, Hong Kong has never nurtured anything resembling a political opposition, which is often a prerequisite for indigenous cultural production, if not quality. As Lam put it, ''What explains much about Hong Kong is that over a century of British rule did not produce a single anticolonial hero. The closest we have come to a hero is Bruce Lee -- and he was from San Francisco!''
 Lung Yingtai believes that Hong Kong has yet to break from the culture of its rulers, both British and Chinese, or even to examine its ''aesthetic tastes, value system and historical viewpoints.'' Even Peter Gordon, who asserts that Shanghai's monolingualism and lack of intellectual and cultural freedom make Hong Kong the Asian ''front-runner to be New York City's alter ego,'' believes that setting up massive performance sites, as planned for the West Kowloon Cultural District, is no guarantee of merit. He concedes that the city needs to do as well in literature and ideas as it has in films and music and also needs to ''strengthen its individuality rather than meekly conforming with the rest of China.''
 This may be too much to ask of the older beneficiaries of Hong Kong's great luck -- the immigrants who fled China for Hong Kong in the 1940s and '50s. Struggling for mere survival, they understandably did not have great opportunity to realize whatever urges they may have felt for dissent or cultural expression. As in early-20th-century America and Australia, it is the children and grandchildren of privilege who are likely to overcome their society's intellectual and cultural backlog. And there are encouraging signs in Hong Kong's present identity crisis and the related groping for the most obvious forms of culture, not to mention in the city's political restlessness, as manifested in mass commemorations of Tiananmen Square and frequent demonstrations against Hong Kong's puppet government. 
 On my last evening in the city, I took the Victorian-era tram to the Peak, which scales the rocky hillside more or less vertically and opens up breathtaking vistas of the island and surrounding seascape. It was foggy at the top, but the city's abundant neon shone through. Here, defiantly looming out of the faint outlines of the vast archipelago on the coast of China, Hong Kong seemed to me more than ever the apotheosis of capitalist modernity: a strange utopia, already prefigured by Singapore and Dubai, city-states where free enterprise coexists frictionlessly with authoritarian politics and ersatz culture. Still, in that rare moment of silence and solitude, I felt convinced that a society of such material plenitude would eventually foster spiritual longings that could not be appeased by the mere accumulation of goods -- a historical lesson that may be useful to remember as Hong Kong hurtles, as apparently heedlessly as ever, toward the future. 
 Essentials: Hong Kong

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CITY LIGHTS: A view of Hong Kong Island, Victoria Harbor and Kowloon from the 1,800-foot mountain Victoria Peak. (pg.MM112)
EASY STREETS: Opposite: the Causeway bay Market, on Hong Kong Island. Above, from left
Halo, one of the city's trendiest nightclubs, in the Central district
Johnson Chang, the owner of Hanart TZ, the city's top art gallery, who helped turn Chinese contemporary art into big business. (pg.MM114 and 115)
 LIQUID ASSETS: Above: a view of Kowloon, the city's traditionally low-rise district, now undergoing a building boom. Opposite: Nathan Road, Kowloon's main thouroughfare. (pg.MM117) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMBROISE TEZENAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (69%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%); AIR POLLUTION (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (68%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (68%); LVMH (BIT) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (68%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



608 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Nassau and Suffolk Look to Trim Spending

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
AMID darkening economic gloom, Long Island's county governments are starting their budget season with a proposed tax increase in Nassau and a vow to hold the line in Suffolk.
 The two budgets for 2009, totaling $5.2 billion, were filed last week. Now they go to their legislatures for a review and vote. 
 The national turmoil in energy, housing, banking and the stock market has taken its toll locally, raising costs and curtailing revenue. The biggest blow has been a drop in sales tax collections, a staple of county finances. 
 ''The economy has tanked, and that's affected us in very real ways,'' said Nassau's county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi. ''Sales taxes are down, the social services caseload is up, fuel and utility bills are up, investment income is down, state aid is down.''
 The result is a $100 million gap in Nassau's $2.6 billion budget. Mr. Suozzi proposes $70 million in cuts and efficiencies and $30 million more in property taxes. The increase would be 3.9 percent for the county portion of the property tax, or $58 a year for a typical homeowner.
 That would end Mr. Suozzi's streak of freezing property taxes. ''We're the only county in New York State that has not raised taxes in five years,'' he said. ''Look, I don't like tax increases; it's the last thing I want to do. But this economy is so bad'' that he has no real choice, he said.
 Bucking the trend in Suffolk, the county executive, Steve Levy, proposed cutting spending by $125 million, reducing the total to $2.6 billion and enabling a fifth year of a property tax freeze.
 ''The public can't take higher taxes,'' he said. ''It was historic in 2006 when we cut spending for the first time in, like, 35 years,'' and now he plans to do it again.
 As the economy began to falter, Mr. Levy and the Legislature started tightening spending earlier this year. ''We cut back on cars and travel accounts, and we had the early retirement plan,'' he said. A surprise move last week was Mr. Levy's announcement that sheriff's deputies will start patrolling the Long Island Expressway and Sunrise Highway, replacing 44 police officers. A deputy costs about $42,000 a year less than a police officer. The police union is protesting the change.
 The budget also relies on additional money from the settlement of national tobacco litigation.
 Suffolk's budget, which was to be filed Friday, will take about a week for the Legislature to sort through. ''It's a very challenging time,'' said its presiding officer, William J. Lindsay, ''and we have to see just how he's doing it without any tax increase.''
 In past budget battles, the Legislature has voted to amend the budget. Mr. Levy, a Democrat, as is the Legislature's majority, has responded with vetoes, and sometimes the legislators have overridden him.
 One fight could be over the county's nursing home, which Mr. Levy insists should be closed or sold as an anachronism. But Mr. Lindsay and others argue that it provides a vital service.
 In Nassau, Mr. Suozzi's budget got a warm reception from the Legislature's presiding officer, Diane Yatauro, a fellow Democrat. She said that the proposal ''appears to be very reasonable'' but added that she remained open to suggestions.
 The Republican minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt, ridiculed Mr. Suozzi, saying the budget belied his calls for curbing property taxes earlier this year as chairman of a state panel. Mr. Schmitt said his party would propose changes to prevent the tax increase.
 Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, a business group, cautioned that in hard times, ''It is incumbent on both county executives to keep any increases to a minimum.''
 The county governments are huge entities, but they account for a minor part of the Island's heavy property taxes. In Nassau, Mr. Suozzi said that since he took office in 2002, the county share of property taxes has fallen to 17.5 percent from 22.7. In Suffolk, Mr. Levy said the county share during his five-year tenure has dropped to 11 percent from 13.
 ''The big chunk is the school taxes,'' Mr. Levy said. ''We just try to lead by example.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COUNTY EXECUTIVE: Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCREASES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SHERIFFS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



609 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths CRONK, ALICE DOUGLASS

 BODY:
 CRONK--Alice Douglass, 85, died 10 September 2008 at the Indian River Medical Center in Vero Beach, FL. She was born in Baltimore, MD and lived in Florida for the past 15 years, in both Sebastian and Vero Beach, having retired from Mahwah, New Jersey. 
She received her bachelors degree in Home Economics from Cornell University and her masters degree from Columbia Teacher's College in New York. She started her career as an assistant food editor for Family Circle Magazine, American Can Company and BBDO Advertising Agency, which handled Betty Crocker and Campbell Soup advertising. For most of her nearly 50 year career, she operated as a free lance food stylist, working for, among others, Bon Appetit Magazine. She was a highly respected specialist in a very specialized field. She was an active member of the Sebastian Chapter of the PEO and multiple local Quilting Clubs. Survivors include son Jay Douglass Cronk and his wife Sara Cronk, of Glenwood, MD, daughter Kimberly Bower and husband Chris Bower of Glenside, PA, and two granddaughters, Alice and Audrey. She was preceded in death by brothers William Edward Douglass and Carleton Douglass. Memorial contributions may be made to the Humane Society of Vero Beach, PO Box 644, Vero Beach, FL 32961. A private gathering to celebrate her life will be held at a later date. Services are by Cox - Gifford - Seawinds Funeral Home & Crematory, Vero Beach. A guest book may be signed at seawindsfh.com.obit.php. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (75%); QUILTS & QUILTING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (71%); BON APPETIT MAGAZINE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); HUMANE SOCIETY (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (71%); C (BMV) (71%); 8710 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



610 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Plucked From Above And Carved Into Stone
 In much of India, the gods are not creatures of distant myth to be worshiped as abstractions, and few things in the country express the continuous presence of the gods in everyday life better than the ancient, massive stone temple complexes of Tamil Nadu. Though Kerala, the state just to the west, draws larger tourist crowds, Tamil Nadu is an increasingly popular destination and is one of India's most developed states. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 Jazz and Family
 Audio excerpts from an interview with Charlie Haden, the jazz musician, and his family, also jazz musicians. Also, music from Mr. Haden's new album, ''Rambling Boy.''
 nytimes.com/music
 TV Moms and Dads
 Ginia Bellafante talks about parents on TV, like the one played by Lena Headey, above, on Fox's ''The Sarah Connor Chronicles.'' Ms. Headey plays Sarah ''with a lush, almost somnolent melancholy that suggests Sarah Connor is in some sense every mother who is fearful about how she will protect her child in an increasingly threatening world.''
 nytimes.com/tvr
 A Farm Like Home
 On a plot of Staten Island farmland, Agustin Juarez grows traditional Mexican vegetables and herbs. The soil is American, but the taste is of home. nytimes.com/thecity Mix of Flavor in Taipei All eyes may have been on Beijing this year, but the democratic island of Taiwan offers a melting pot of culinary influences. Virtually every cooking style of the mainland is represented, thanks to waves of immigration that began in 1949, as well as Japanese and traditional Taiwanese fare.
 nytimes.com/travel
 Weekend Business
 Jeff Sommer, Edmund Andrews and Gretchen Morgenson on the global financial crisis, Ron Lieber on how to protect your money, and Damon Darlin on whether technology is making us stupid.
 nytimes.com/business
 Times Essentials: R.S.I.
 Repetitive stress injuries can cripple a person's ability to earn a living and make it difficult to perform everyday tasks. The Times Health Guide features an Expert Q&A on the problem, best practices for computer users and questions to ask your doctor.
 nytimes.com/business
 Remembering Yankee Stadium
 Penny Marshall, Ari Fleischer, Jane Heller and Robert W. Creamer share their memories of Yankee Stadium.
 nytimes.com/baseball
 On the Street: Slim Silhouettes
 This week, Bill Cunningham discusses how young men in New York City seem to prefer the thin silhouette. From skinny trouser legs to skinny ties, this look seems to be displacing the buff look preferred by many men in the past.
 nytimes.com/fashion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); RECORD RELEASES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); BASEBALL (68%); BEST PRACTICES (63%); IMMIGRATION (50%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); KERALA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



611 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's President Calls for End to Terrorism and Criticizes Intervention by U.S.

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
President Asif Ali Zardari addressed a joint session of Parliament on Saturday, his first speech there since his election two weeks ago, and offered a program of peace and reform while vowing to root out terrorism and extremism. 
 Mr. Zardari, who is seen as pro-American but is confronted by public hostility to American policy toward militants in Pakistan's tribal areas, said his government was determined to meet the challenge posed by terrorist and extremist elements in those areas. 
 His government would offer peace to anyone willing to renounce violence, and would invest in development and political reform of the border areas, but would use force as a last resort to those who challenged the authority of the government. 
 He declared that his government should be firm in its resolve not to allow terrorists to use Pakistani soil to carry out terrorist activities against any foreign country, and said he wanted to improve relations with two of Pakistan's neighbors, Afghanistan and India. 
 But he also warned that Pakistan would not abide further American military incursions into the border areas. ''We will not tolerate the violation of our sovereignty and territorial integrity by any power in the name of combating terrorism,'' he said in a comment that was broadly greeted by legislators, who loudly thumped on their desks to show their support. 
 His warning followed a strong statement last week by Pakistan's military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, warning that the country would defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity at all costs against any incursion. 
 Mr. Zardari placed a framed photo of his wife, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was assassinated by a suicide bomber in December and whose Pakistan Peoples Party he now leads, on the lectern before he began his speech. 
 ''We are here, this Parliament is here, because of the historic choices she made,'' he said. ''It is indeed her day. I wish she was addressing the Parliament today and not me.'' 
 Mr. Zardari pointed out that he was addressing Parliament within two weeks of his election, and would do so annually as required under the Constitution, unlike General Musharraf, who addressed Parliament only once in the eight years of his rule. 
 Mr. Zardari recommended a return to the 1973 Constitution, and offered to give up some of his presidential powers, calling on Parliament to form an all-parties committee to review amendments made under General Musharraf that gave the president powers to dismiss Parliament and to appoint the senior military chiefs, among others.
 ''Never before in the history of this country has a president stood here and given away his powers,'' Mr. Zardari said. 
 Yet his critics in Parliament said forming a committee was disingenuous and could delay any rapid reform. ''I have a feeling it should have been done straightaway,'' said Iqbal Zafar Jhagra, secretary general of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, led by former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. 
 Mr. Jhagra also expressed disappointment that Mr. Zardari did not mention restoration of the Supreme Court judges dismissed by General Musharraf during emergency rule last October. Mr. Zardari's refusal to reinstate the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, led to the party's pulling out of the coalition government. 
 Legislators also complained that his speech lacked specifics considering that his party has already been in government for six months and the country is facing a critical period with growing militancy and a sliding economy. ''It was all generalities,'' said Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao, who served as interior minister under General Musharraf. ''He had to spell out the government's policies, he had to be very specific.''
 ''I have a dream for Pakistan,'' Mr. Zardari said. ''My dream is to free this great country from the shackles of poverty, hunger, terrorism and disunity.'' 
 He also said his government would move to bring the tribal areas, which are troubled by militancy, into the national political mainstream by removing their special federal status, which dates from colonial times. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Asif Ali Zardari outlined his goals to Parliament on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS OF PAKISTAN, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ASSASSINATION (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



612 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup: Above the Fray?

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
YOU'RE one of the largest commercial banks in the United States. Your international reach is beyond compare, with customers in scores of countries relying on you for credit cards, mortgages and auto loans. Corporations worldwide turn to your investment bankers for advice. 
 You're Citigroup, and on paper, you look perfectly suited to withstand these tumultuous times. 
 As the stocks of once-high-flying brokerages firm gyrated wildly last week and some smaller banks struggled to survive, Citigroup even found itself named as a potential suitor. 
 ''We were a pillar of strength in the markets,'' said Citigroup's C.E.O., Vikram S. Pandit, in an interview late Friday afternoon. Sitting calmly in his quiet office after one of the most chaotic weeks of trading in Wall Street history, Mr. Pandit said that his bank had some funds flow in from competitors' coffers. 
 ''That's a great place to be,'' he says, smiling.
 Of course, even Citi's stock was whipsawed last week as fears about a financial collapse appeared to overwhelm even the mightiest of Wall Street's titans. And Citi's fortunes also may be buttressed by a huge government bailout plan unveiled on Friday.
 Regulators plan to create a taxpayer-financed depository for withering mortgage securities -- and Citi holds billions of dollars of such stuff. 
 Until the government works out all the details, it's unclear how much Citi stands to gain. The biggest unknown is the price that the government will pay for the assets. If it's below the price that Citi has assigned them, the bank could face further losses. 
 Mr. Pandit said he did not know exactly how the fund would work or what impact it might have on Citi's holdings. But he expressed confidence that the proposed bailout could go a long way toward restoring confidence among investors and eventually free up banks to make new loans. ''That's going to be good for housing prices as consumers are able to get mortgages again,'' he said.
 While the proposed bailout and the newly buoyant market raise Citi's prospects, the large bank -- which has been inundated with an unusual array of managerial and financial debacles in recent years -- still isn't out of the woods. 
 If consumers continue to be hammered by the economy, the bank may have to add to the billions it has set aside to cover potential losses in credit-card, home-equity and auto loans. And Citigroup's large international base (two-thirds of its deposits are outside the United States) could expose it to further hits as economies in Europe and emerging markets slow.
 Other problems that Citi's executives must tackle are homegrown. A decade has passed since Citigroup was formed after the landmark $70 billion merger between Citicorp and the insurance company Travelers, shattering the Depression-era law that hemmed in the size and power of America's banks. Yet Citigroup is still struggling to make all the parts perform. 
 While Mr. Pandit is scrambling to put out fires, he also must find a way to integrate the dozens of companies that his predecessors acquired over the years. Even during the good times, Citi underperformed its peers. And since the credit crisis struck last year, the bank's market value has plunged more than $125 billion. It is on track to have four consecutive quarters of multibillion-dollar losses.
 Since taking over the banking giant late last year, Mr. Pandit has made many moves to shore up the company's finances. In recent months, Citi has raised $50 billion in capital, cut the dividend by almost half, slashed expenses and headcount, and put underperforming businesses up for sale. He is also trying to refine the bank's strategy and has brought in new heads for several important divisions.
 Until recently, however, Citigroup hasn't been given much credit for its new steps.
 ''What's not clear to people from the outside is that we've done a lot to clean up the business,'' said Mr. Pandit. Indeed, a handful of analysts give Mr. Pandit kudos for addressing many of Citi's longstanding problems and argue its diverse business lines position it well if markets stabilize. 
 ''No one financial company has the geographic and product breadth that Citigroup has,'' says Richard X. Bove, an analyst with Ladenburg Thalmann. ''But the company has been massively mismanaged for 15 years.''
 MUCH of Citigroup's woes trace back to Sanford I. Weill, Citigroup's former chairman who transformed the bank into a financial services behemoth during more than a decade of flashy acquisitions. Citigroup's stock soared during his reign as he bought company after company, then slashed expenses to show quick profits.
 Mr. Weill's successors, first Charles O. Prince III, and now Mr. Pandit, have had to deal with the devastating consequences of Mr. Weill's tenure. Analysts say that he instituted a cowboy culture that pitted managers against one another, did not share information with employees and forced them to battle for every last nickel of spending. He underinvested in technology, leaving Citigroup with outdated systems that analysts say could still take another five years to update. 
 More important, Mr. Weill and Mr. Prince did not keep the bank up to date with risk analysis systems and personnel, leaving it vulnerable to the dangers associated with complex products like collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s, which have loomed ever larger on Citigroup's balance sheet in recent years. 
 Mr. Pandit is a former Morgan Stanley executive who left to start a hedge fund, Old Lane Partners, which Citigroup acquired in 2007 for $800 million. When Mr. Prince resigned late last year amid gigantic losses in the mortgage portfolio, Mr. Pandit was tapped to take his place. 
 Even though he had no retail banking experience, Mr. Pandit so far has earned fairly strong marks from some Wall Street analysts. He quickly started raising capital and announced plans to slash nearly 20,000 jobs. Thousands more layoffs are likely. And this spring, he said Citigroup would shed $400 billion in assets over the next three years. Still, Citi is exposed to significant risks.
 While it has written down about $27.6 billion of its subprime and related mortgage securities, Citi still holds about $22 billion of the mortgage-linked securities on its balance sheet. Gary L. Crittenden, Citigroup's chief financial officer, says that most of the securities predate 2006, when mortgage lending practices really went off the rails, and that Citigroup has marked many of those C.D.O.'s down to 61 cents on the dollar. If the government values them below that level, Citi will have to mark them down even further.
 The bank also has $16.4 billion in another type of risky loans on its books. Defaults on so-called alt-A loans, which were made to slightly more creditworthy customers but with little to no proof of their income or assets, is accelerating. 
 Citigroup must also reckon with new problems created by the credit crisis, like losses on its Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities, and the collapse of supposedly safe auction-rate debt.
 Still another unknown for Citigroup is its exposure to loans provided to buyout firms, which paid what now seem like high prices to privatize publicly traded companies. As the economy slows, the values of those acquired companies are also declining. So far this year, the bank has written down about $3.5 billion of those loans but still has a further $24 billion outstanding. 
 While Citigroup's huge deposit base has given it more stability in these rocky markets, its retail customers may also give it some trouble in the coming quarters. Consumers, hit hard by falling housing prices and rising gas prices, are struggling to keep up with sky-high credit card bills and auto loans.
 In the last year, Citigroup has more than doubled the money it has set aside to cover potential losses in its consumer loans, ranging from mortgages to credit cards and auto loans, to $16.5 billion. And its losses will increase if the unemployment rate keeps rising.
 ''If you look at the last three credit-card cycles, they typically last somewhere between 8 and 10 quarters long. We're now in the fourth quarter,'' says Mr. Crittenden, who worked at the credit-card giant American Express for seven years before joining Citi in 2007. ''We're likely to see additional deterioration.''
 Still, an even bigger potential problem for Citigroup is the $1.2 trillion in assets that shareholders do not see because they are not on its balance sheet. (JPMorgan Chase also holds hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of special securitization vehicles off its books.)
 While Citigroup provides ample disclosure of these assets -- 23 pages worth of discussion in its second-quarter filing -- it doesn't address one big question: How much of that $1.2 trillion might wind up back on the balance sheet? In the last year alone, Citigroup has shifted $55 billion of assets back onto its books.
 Last week a Senate banking subcommittee held a hearing on how accounting rules for off-balance-sheet entities may have contributed to the explosive growth of risky subprime mortgages and mortgage securities. 
 Earlier this year, the Financial Accounting Standards Board proposed rules that could require banks to bring these potentially distressed assets back onto their books -- a move that could seriously weaken the banks' financial well-being. The board, however, has delayed implementation of the rule, which will give banks more time to lobby against the changes.
 While Citigroup has struggled to get its sprawling operations under control, its closest competitor, JPMorgan Chase, has performed much better during the current credit meltdown. While some analysts say JPMorgan's C.E.O., James L. Dimon, has proved himself to be an adroit leader, others say the biggest factor dividing the two banks' performance is the business mix.
 JPMorgan, unlike Citigroup, had relatively little exposure to mortgage securities. On the flip side, JPMorgan's extensive retail branch network in the United States makes it much more vulnerable to consumer defaults on home equity and auto loans than Citi, analysts say.
 STILL, in these uncertain markets, Citigroup's business mix has offered it protection that some of its investment banking brethren would have lusted after last week. Mr. Pandit continues to staunchly resist calls to break up the banking giant. After all, in today's market pandemonium, a stand-alone Citigroup investment bank might not have survived, he says.
 ''If there's anything I'm right about 100 percent it's the strategy we're on and what we're doing,'' Mr. Pandit says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Citigroup trading floor in New York. Two-thirds of the bank's deposits are outside the United States, so its global reach could expose it to further hits as economies around the world slow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.BU9) CHART: A year ago, at the height of the market, Citigroup was worth more than any other financial company. It now faces a more complicated future. (Source: Wilshire Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HOME PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



613 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: With Elbows in Check, Making a Pitch to Women

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
As Michelle Obama courted working women in battleground states last week by talking about the tough balancing acts in their lives, she was engaging in a balancing act of her own: Acting as a pointed critic of the Republican ticket while projecting an affable, ladylike (as in first lady) persona.
 This is no easy task. Working women with children -- often called Wal-Mart moms and hockey moms these days -- could become the decisive swing vote in November, Mrs. Obama noted. Yet the Obama campaign does not have a working woman in its political camp who enjoys the high profile of Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, who is also trying to win a strong chunk of the female vote. 
 As they waited for Mrs. Obama to speak at events in Virginia on Wednesday, some Democratic supporters of Senator Barack Obama, the party's presidential nominee, said he might come to regret not picking Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as his running mate this year if Ms. Palin and the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, end up with a surprisingly large vote from women. So far, white women are evenly divided between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, and Ms. Palin has had no effect in expanding the Republican ticket's appeal among women and independents.
 Mrs. Clinton is campaigning only once or twice a week for Mr. Obama, as opposed to Ms. Palin's appeals to women at events several times a day. That leaves Mrs. Obama as the Democratic campaign's busiest and most high-profile female surrogate at a time when the fight for women is intensifying.
 Yet, as a potential first lady, Mrs. Obama cannot act like a sharp-elbowed fighter. For one thing, some female voters and others are still deciding whether they like Mrs. Obama, according to public opinion polls of her favorability ratings.
 ''Co-workers of mine who had supported Hillary for president are now backing Palin and McCain, and it breaks my heart,'' said Emily Moore, a 28-year-old occupational therapist who attended an ''Economic Roundtable With Working Women'' event with Mrs. Obama here on Wednesday.
 ''More people think of Michelle Obama as an elitist than Hillary, which is funny to me,'' Ms. Moore added. ''I think it'd be the other way around.''
 At her campaign stops in Virginia and, on Thursday, in another battleground state, North Carolina, Mrs. Obama thoroughly explained her husband's plans for women and families, like equal pay laws, universal health care and student financial aid. Her empathic side was also on display: She sat with five women in plush chairs on a stage in Richmond -- ''So here we are, on 'The View,' '' Mrs. Obama said -- and at one point passed a Kleenex to Mary Henley, a 78-year-old widow who works part-time and may declare bankruptcy.
 ''Women's votes will make the difference in this race,'' Mrs. Obama said in Richmond, ''so what I urge women to do is understand the issues and vote on the issues.''
 Yet as Mrs. Obama juggled her own jobs as a political spouse, her critiques of Republican policies had a somewhat muted quality. Unlike Mrs. Clinton, who urged supporters at an event Friday to ''defeat the McCain-Palin ticket,'' Mrs. Obama rarely mentioned Mr. McCain or Ms. Palin by name, and some of her references were a little opaque.
 At a roundtable conversation with working women in Richmond, she said the pocketbook struggles middle class families faced were real. ''I think it's important for people to know that this isn't in your head, that this is really happening, and we need politicians who understand that,'' Mrs. Obama said.
 Her remark seemed like a counterpoint to the controversial comment by a Republican adviser to Mr. McCain, former Senator Phil Gramm, that Americans were in a ''mental recession'' over the economy. Of 10 people asked about the remark at the Obama event, none of the audience members instantly recalled that line by Mrs. Obama, though several did remember the Gramm remark.
 The next day, in Charlotte, N.C., she said of the election, ''People shouldn't make a decision this time based on, 'I like that guy' or 'she's cute.' '' Ms. Palin is the only woman on either ticket, but, once the laughter and applause settled down, Mrs. Obama made clear that she was not tweaking the Republican running mate.
 ''I'm talking about me,'' Mrs. Obama said.
 Mrs. Obama draws sizable crowds and warm receptions almost everywhere she goes. At the event in Richmond, with about 200 people, the audience gave her a standing ovation and laughed at her lighter remarks (like whether her mother was making her daughters do all their homework).
 Afterward, several women in the same book club said they were impressed with Mrs. Obama's ''family values'' -- like her concerns for her ''precious little people'' (her two daughters) -- and the way she, with her lawyerly touch, laid out the case for her husband's policies.
 ''Michelle came across as a first lady to me, very eloquent, but she did not strike me as delivering the tough political message that Hillary or Palin does,'' said one of the women, Lynalise Woodlief.
 More than 2,000 people came to Mrs. Obama's rally at the University of Virginia, meanwhile, where she spoke in turns about policy and, affectionately, about her husband. There were none of the occasional sarcastic quips about him that she made earlier in the campaign. 
 Charlottesville, the home of the university, is a liberal enclave in Virginia, so Mrs. Obama was not exactly speaking to many undecided swing voters. But some Democrats said it was important for Mrs. Obama to be re-energizing core voters, in light of the fresh interest in Ms. Palin.
 ''This is challenging -- it's hard to get a woman of substance like Michelle or Hillary to go against a woman of illusion like Palin,'' said Nina Johnston, an Obama supporter, as she waited for the campus rally to begin. ''But our Democratic women leaders have to work the base -- they've got to make clear what's at stake for women.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Obama handed a tissue to Mary Henley during a roundtable in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); WOMEN (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FAMILY (76%); EQUAL PAY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (60%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (50%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



614 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: No Laughing Matter

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Of all the points raised by different analysts about the economy last week, surely the best was Representative Barney Frank's reminder on ''Charlie Rose'' that Ronald Reagan's favorite laugh line was telling audiences that: ''The nine most terrifying words in the English language are: 'I'm from the government, and I'm here to help.' '' 
 Hah, hah, hah. 
 Are you still laughing? If it weren't for the government bailing out Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and A.I.G., and rescuing people from Hurricane Ike and pumping tons of liquidity into the banking system, our economy would be a shambles. How would you like to hear the line today: ''I'm from the government, and I can't do a darn thing for you.''
 In this age of globalization, government matters more than ever. Smart, fiscally strong governments are the ones best able to empower their people to compete and win. I was just in Michigan to give a talk on energy. I can't tell you how many business cards I collected from innovators who had either started renewable-energy companies or were working for big firms, like the Dow Chemical Company, on clean energy solutions. 
 It just reminded me how much innovative prowess and entrepreneurial energy is exploding from below in this country. If it were channeled and enhanced by better leadership in Washington, no one could touch us.
 If I were to draw a picture of America today, it would be of the space shuttle taking off. There is all this thrust coming from below. But the booster rocket -- Washington -- is cracked and leaking energy, and the pilots in the cockpit are fighting over the flight plan. So we can't achieve escape velocity to enter the next orbit -- the next great industrial revolution, which is going to be E.T., energy technology.
 In many ways, this election is about how we get our groove back as a country. We have been living on borrowed time and borrowed dimes. President Bush has nothing to offer anymore. So that leaves us with Barack Obama and John McCain. Neither has wowed me with his reaction to the market turmoil. In fairness, though, neither man has any levers of power to pull. But what could they say that would give you confidence that they could lead us out of this rut? My test is simple: Which guy can tell people what they don't want to hear -- especially his own base.
 Think how much better off McCain would be today had he nominated Michael Bloomberg as his vice president rather than Sarah Palin. McCain could have said, ''I'm not an expert on markets, but I've got one of the best on my team.'' Instead of a V.P. to re-energize America, McCain went for a V.P. to re-energize the Republican base.
 So what would get my attention from McCain? If he said the following: ''My fellow Americans, I've decided for now not to continue the Bush tax cuts, because the most important thing for our country today is to get the government's balance sheet in order. We can't go on cutting taxes and not cutting spending. For too long my party has indulged that nonsense. Second, I intend to have most U.S. troops out of Iraq in 24 months. We have done all we can to midwife democracy there. Iraqis need to take it from here. We need every dollar now for nation-building in America. We will do everything we can to wind down our presence and facilitate the Iraqi elections, but we're not going to baby-sit Iraqi politicians who don't have the will or the courage to reconcile their differences -- unless they want to pay us for that. In America, baby sitters get paid.''
 What would impress me from Obama? How about this: ''The Big Three automakers and the United Auto Workers union want a Washington bailout. The only way they will get a dime out of my administration is if the automakers and unions come up with a joint plan to retool their fleets to get an average of 40 miles per gallon by 2015 -- instead of the 35 m.p.g. by 2020 that they've reluctantly accepted. I am not going to bail out Detroit with taxpayer money, but I will invest in Detroit's transformation with taxpayer money, provided the management and unions agree to radical change. At the same time, while I will go along with the bailout of the banking system, it will only be on the condition that the institutions that got us into this mess accept sweeping reforms -- in terms of transparency and limits on the leverage they can amass -- so we don't go through something like this again. To help me figure this out, I'm going to keep Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson on the job for a while. I am impressed with his handling of this crisis.''
 Those are the kind of words that would get my attention. The last president who challenged his base was Bill Clinton, when he reformed welfare and created a budget surplus with a fair and equitable tax program. George W. Bush never once -- not one time -- challenged Americans to do anything hard, let alone great. The next president is not going to have that luxury. He will have to ask everyone to do something hard -- and I want to know now who is up to that task. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); SPACE PROPULSION (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); SPACECRAFT (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (71%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (67%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (67%); DOW (NYSE) (67%); DOW (LSE) (67%); 4850 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (71%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); BARNEY FRANK (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (67%); CHARLIE ROSE (58%); SARAH PALIN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



615 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Pact on Debates Lets McCain and Obama Spar, Their Running Mates Less So

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Miami.

 BODY:
The Obama and McCain campaigns have agreed to an unusual free-flowing format for the three televised presidential debates, which begin Friday, but the McCain camp fought for and won a much more structured approach for the questioning at the vice-presidential debate, advisers to both campaigns said Saturday.
 At the insistence of the McCain campaign, the Oct. 2 debate between the Republican nominee for vice president, Gov. Sarah Palin, and her Democratic rival, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., will have shorter question-and-answer segments than those for the presidential nominees, the advisers said. There will also be much less opportunity for free-wheeling, direct exchanges between the running mates.
 McCain advisers said they had been concerned that a loose format could leave Ms. Palin, a relatively inexperienced debater, at a disadvantage and largely on the defensive. 
 The wrangling was chiefly between the McCain-Palin camp and the nonpartisan Commission on Presidential Debates, which is sponsoring the forums.
 Commission members wanted a relaxed format that included time for unpredictable questioning and challenges between the two vice-presidential candidates. On Wednesday, the commission unanimously rejected a proposal sought by advisers to Ms. Palin and Senator John McCain of Arizona, the Republican presidential nominee, to have the moderator ask questions and the candidates answer, with no time for unfettered exchanges. Advisers to Mr. Biden say they were comfortable with either format.
 Both campaigns see the four debates as pivotal moments in a presidential race that is not only extraordinarily close but also drawing intense interest from voters; roughly 40 million viewers watched the major speeches at the two parties' conventions. The upheaval in the financial markets has recast the race in recent days, moreover, which both sides believe will only heighten attention for the debates. 
 A commission member said that the new agreement on the vice-presidential debate was reached late Saturday morning. It calls for shorter blocks of candidate statements and open discussion than at the presidential debates.
 McCain advisers said they were only somewhat concerned about Ms. Palin's debating skills compared with those of Mr. Biden, who has served six terms in the Senate, or about his chances of tripping her up. Instead, they say, they wanted Ms. Palin to have opportunities to present Mr. McCain's positions, rather than spending time talking about her experience or playing defense.
 While the debates between presidential nominees are traditionally the main events in the fall election season, the public interest in Ms. Palin has proved extraordinary, and a large audience is expected for her national debate debut. 
 Indeed, both the McCain and Obama campaigns have similar concerns about the vice-presidential matchup in St. Louis: that Ms. Palin, of Alaska, as a new player in national politics, or Mr. Biden, of Delaware, as a loquacious and gaffe-prone speaker, could commit a momentum-changing misstep in their debate.
 The negotiations for the three 90-minute debates between the men at the top of the tickets were largely free of brinksmanship. Neither side threatened to pull out, and concerns about camera angles and stagecraft were minor. 
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the Democratic nominee for president, and Mr. McCain did not intercede personally to settle any disputes. They agreed to one substantive change to the format originally proposed by the debate commission, giving them two minutes apiece to make a statement at the beginning of each segment on a new topic.
 Mr. Obama successfully sought to flip the proposed topics for the first and third debates, so foreign policy is now coming first and economic and other domestic issues come last. There is a second debate, in the format of a town hall meeting, in which the candidates will sit on director's chairs and take questions from the audience and Internet users on any topic.
 The debate commission had proposed that the first debate be on economic issues and the third on foreign policy -- in part, people involved in the process said, because the first debate is usually the most watched, and many voters rank the economy as their top concern.
 Mr. Obama wanted foreign policy first to show viewers that he could provide depth, strength and intelligence on those issues, his advisers said, given that Mr. McCain consistently wins higher ratings in opinion polls as a potential commander in chief. 
 Mr. Obama wanted domestic issues to come last; advisers said that they believed even before the start of the financial crisis that the election was most likely to turn on the state of the economy and that he wanted the final televised exchange to focus on those concerns. He has argued that Mr. McCain would continue the economic policies of President Bush.
 Mr. McCain also wanted foreign policy topics to come first in the debates, his aides said, in the hope of capitalizing on his positive reputation on national security issues across party lines. 
 He wanted limits on the original format for the first and third debates, which had been nine topics with nine minutes of free-flowing debate on each one. Mr. Obama went along, though his aides did insist that at least several minutes of open-ended debate occur in each block of questioning, because they believe he does well in that format. 
 Now the candidates will be asked a question, each will give an answer of two minutes or less, and then they will mix it up for five additional minutes before moving on to the next question in the same format.
 Obama aides also agreed to use lecterns at the first event, which Mr. McCain preferred; at the third debate, the two men will be seated at a round table, in the 10 o'clock and 2 o'clock positions, with the moderator at 6 o'clock.
 McCain aides said that they were conscious of the fact that Mr. McCain has a prominent scar on one side of his face, and that they could not predict how prominent it would appear with the camera angles, lighting and make-up.
 The debate formats were negotiated by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, representing the McCain campaign, and Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, for the Obama camp. A handful of aides from both camps were also involved, hammering out issues between themselves and then holding conference calls with members of the commission to reach final agreements, people involved in the process said.
 Mr. Obama plans to begin debate camp on Tuesday with a tight circle of advisers at a site in the Tampa Bay area of Florida, his aides say, with a prominent Democratic lawyer, Greg Craig, playing the part of Mr. McCain in mock debates. 
 The Obama campaign has been studying Mr. McCain's debate performances from the Republican primary as well as in his 2000 race for president. Each debate has been rated and scored, with briefing points and highlights sent to Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. Obama's advisers have been studying in particular Mr. McCain's temperament and mood and looking for potential flash points of anger. 
 Mr. McCain, his advisers say, has yet to spend much time watching the dozens of primary debate performances of Mr. Obama over the last two years. But they said that a small staff of aides had been reviewing them and that Mr. McCain would see some highlights next week. 
 McCain aides refused to say when his debate camp would be or where, or who was playing Mr. Obama or Mr. Biden. (Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, Democrat of Michigan, is playing Ms. Palin for Mr. Biden's preparations.)
 Mr. Obama plans to sequester himself and a few advisers at his debate camp. The attendance is limited to a small group of foreign policy advisers, each rotating in for separate sessions with Mr. Obama and Mr. Craig.
 The choice of Florida, particularly the politically critical region near Tampa, was selected with a dual purpose in mind. While Mr. Obama will have few public events from Tuesday through Friday, aides said, his presence could draw considerable local news media attention in a state where he hopes to fiercely challenge Mr. McCain.
 While the intense portion of debate training begins on Tuesday, Mr. Obama has been preparing for weeks, in part by drawing upon his experience debating Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York in the Democratic primaries. His aides have been studying those debate performances to address one of his biggest shortcomings: his ability to deliver a tight answer. Already, his campaign is trying to diminish expectations for Mr. Obama's performance.
 ''Despite the fact that we got the chance to do this a lot during the primaries, these debates are not by any stretch of the imagination his strong suit,'' said Robert Gibbs, a senior strategist to Mr. Obama. ''He likes to talk about a problem, give some examples that addresses some solutions and oftentimes that doesn't fit into the moderator's allotted time.''
 The campaigns had no say over the choice of moderators -- Jim Lehrer of PBS, Tom Brokaw of NBC and Bob Schieffer of CBS for the presidential debates, and Gwen Ifill of PBS for the vice-presidential debate.
 ''Everything matters and issues can always come up, such as the size of podiums -- like for Carter and Ford in 1976 -- to the timer lights if the candidate doesn't like them,'' said Tad Devine, a Democratic strategist who advised Al Gore in 2000 and John Kerry in 2004. ''There hasn't really been a 'debate about the debates' this year, but that can change in a minute.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain, at a speech in Wisconsin on Friday, will go to Mississippi this week for the first of three debates with Senator Barack Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The debates between Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama, shown in Florida on Friday, are expected to be unusually free form. The first will be on foreign policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: The Debates 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); SARAH PALIN (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



616 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1971 words

HEADLINE: ADMINISTRATION IS SEEKING $700 BILLION FOR WALL ST.; BAILOUT COULD SET RECORD

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington, and Michael Barbaro and Eric Dash from New York.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Peter Baker, Stephen Labaton and Eric Lipton and written by Mr. Baker.
WASHINGTON -- For the last year, as the nation's economy lurched from crisis to crisis, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, had been warning Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, that the worsening situation might ultimately force a sweeping federal intervention.
A longtime student of the Great Depression, Mr. Bernanke was acutely aware of what could happen without a decisive move. Finally, the moment that called for action arrived late Wednesday. Less than 24 hours after the Fed bailed out American International Group, the giant insurer, it was clear the turmoil gripping Wall Street was only growing worse and that ad hoc solutions were not working.
Talking into a speaker phone from his ornate office, Mr. Bernanke told Mr. Paulson that it was time to adopt a comprehensive strategy that Congress would have to approve. Mr. Paulson understood. Reluctant in recent days to send Congress a plan that lawmakers had warned had little chance of quick passage, he had worried that a rejection would only further shock the markets. But during two conference calls Wednesday night and Thursday morning, he agreed that they had no choice. 
''It just happened dramatically,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview on Friday. ''There was only one way that we could reassure the markets and deal with a very significant and broad-based freezing of the credit market. There was no political calculus. It was overwhelmingly obvious.''
Just like that, Mr. Bernanke, the reserved former Ivy League professor, and Mr. Paulson, the hard-charging former Wall Street deal maker, launched what would be the government's largest economic rescue operation in modern times, one that rivals the Iraq war in cost and at the same time may redefine Washington's role in the marketplace for years.
The plan to buy $700 billion in troubled assets with taxpayer money was shaped by two men who did not know each other until two years ago and did not travel in the same circles, but now find themselves brought together by history. If Mr. Bernanke is the intellectual force and Mr. Paulson the action man of this unlikely tandem, they have managed to create a nearly seamless partnership as they rush to stop the financial upheaval and keep the economy afloat.
Befitting their roles and personalities, Mr. Paulson has become the public face of their team -- he plans to appear on four Sunday talk shows -- while the less visible Mr. Bernanke provides the historical underpinnings for their strategy.
Along the way, they have cast aside the administration's long-held views about regulation and government involvement in private business, even reversing decisions over the space of 24 hours and justifying them as practical solutions to dire threats.
''There are no atheists in foxholes and no ideologues in financial crises,'' Mr. Bernanke told colleagues last week, according to one meeting participant.
The improvisational nature of their effort has turned President Bush and Congressional Democrats into virtual bystanders, sometimes uncertain about what comes next and left to wonder about the new power dynamics in the capital. Seemingly every time lawmakers tried to get a handle on what was happening and what role they might play with elections around the corner, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke would show up again on Capitol Hill for another evening meeting with another surprise development.
The two men have been working early and working late, tracking Asian markets and fielding calls from their European counterparts, then reconnecting with each other by phone eight or nine times a day, talking so often that they speak in shorthand. Mr. Paulson has powered through the long days with a steady infusion of Diet Coke. Asked twice to testify by the Senate last week, he begged off.
''He told me he had like four hours of sleep,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Banking Committee. But there were limits to Mr. Dodd's sympathy. ''The public wants to know what's going on,'' he said he replied.
Mr. Bernanke (his drink: Diet Dr Pepper) has made a point of leaving the office by midnight to get at least some rest, but friends say the toll on him is clear as well. Alan S. Blinder, a longtime friend and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, recalled seeing Mr. Bernanke at a conference last month in Jackson Hole, Wyo. ''He looked like he had the weight of the world on his shoulders,'' Mr. Blinder said.
And that was before last week.
Mr. Bernanke took office in February 2006 and Mr. Paulson five months later, both Republicans and Bush appointees, yet arriving from starkly different places. Mr. Bernanke, 54, had managed the academic politics of the Princeton economics department, where he served as chairman, by developing a conciliator's style. Mr. Paulson, 62, rose to the top of Goldman Sachs by pounding the phones, and the occasional table.
''Hank is just the most hyperactive, get-it-done kind of guy who's always trying to get the problem solved and move on. He's impatient to fix things,'' said Allan B. Hubbard, a former national economic adviser to Mr. Bush. ''Ben is much more low-key. He's very thoughtful. He's an incredible thinker, listens well, analyzes well and is not intimidated by anyone. It's probably a great pair.''
While Mr. Bernanke talks in lofty terms and Mr. Paulson speaks in great bursts of Wall Street jock language, the new Washington odd couple bonded in part over baseball. The Treasury secretary is a Chicago Cubs fan and the Fed chairman is a Boston Red Sox fan who has adopted the Washington Nationals and shares season tickets with the White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten.
But neither Mr. Paulson nor Mr. Bernanke has been deeply involved in the political process before. As they try to navigate Washington together, they have surrounded themselves respectively with advisers drawn from Goldman and career professionals at the Fed.
Mr. Paulson initially declined to join the cabinet. He changed his mind only after extensive lobbying by Mr. Bolten, a former Goldman executive, and commitments by Mr. Bush to let him truly run economic policy, unlike his predecessors. The Hammer, as Mr. Paulson has been called since his days on the Dartmouth football squad, brought to Washington his characteristic intensity.
''He is a hurricane. He is used to living in a turbulent world,'' said John H. Bryan Jr., a close friend and former chief executive of the Sara Lee Corporation. ''He has lived in a world of deadlines, decisions and pressure-packed things.''
Mr. Paulson, a Christian Scientist, does not drink or smoke. Once, at a cocktail party where he was giving a speech, recalled Andrew M. Alper, a former Goldman colleague, Mr. Paulson accidentally took a gulp from a glass of vodka, thinking it was water. His face turned bright red and his eyes were watering for an hour. ''He just kept going,'' Mr. Alper said. ''It did not slow him down.''
Mr. Bernanke has a more obscure nickname, Helicopter Ben, after a speech he gave in 2002 in which he talked about the Fed's ''helicopter drops'' of emergency money to keep the system liquid. For Mr. Bernanke, the current crisis is the culmination of a lifetime of figuring how the system works from a theoretical viewpoint.
Mr. Bernanke made clear long ago that he realized he might someday be called on to act on his studies. Vincent R. Reinhart, a former Fed official, said Mr. Bernanke's research into Japan's financial crisis in the 1990s reinforced his view that the government had to be aggressive in intervening during market crises.
And at a party he had in 2002 to honor the 90th birthday of Milton Friedman, the famed economist, Mr. Bernanke, then a governor of the Federal Reserve, brought up the mistakes the nation made in the face of the Depression and promised not to repeat them. ''We did it,'' he said then. ''We won't do it again.''
Mr. Paulson, in the interview Friday, said that Mr. Bernanke had long warned that a moment might come like the one they saw last week.
''Going back a long time, maybe a year ago, Ben, as a world-class economist, said to me, 'When you look at the housing bubble and the correction, if the price decline was significant enough,' '' the only solution might be a large-scale government intervention, Mr. Paulson said. ''He talked about what had happened when there had been other situations historically.''
Mr. Paulson said he agreed but hoped it would not come to that. ''I knew he was right theoretically,'' he said. ''But I also had, and we both did, some hope that, with all the liquidity out there from investors, that after a certain decline that we would reach a bottom.''
He was also hearing as late as last Monday from senior Democratic and Republican lawmakers, including Steny H. Hoyer, the House majority leader, and Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, that there was no chance Congress would adopt any legislation before it planned to leave town in September. Even Representative Barney Frank, a proponent of a greater role for the government in the market, said on Monday that the issue would have to be resolved by the next president and the new Congress next year.
By Tuesday, however, the troubles were only deepening. Lehman Brothers had declared bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch had agreed to be bought by Bank of America and A.I.G. was on the verge of collapse. Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke put together an $85 billion bailout of A.I.G. and presented it to Mr. Bush.
But the two warned the president that it might not be enough to stabilize the broader crisis. A senior administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, paraphrased their message to Mr. Bush this way: ''There may still be problems after this, and if there are, we'll come back to you.''
They did, two days later, after plunging stock prices and frozen credit markets made clear the case-by-case strategy was not working. Mr. Paulson had been talking with Mr. Bush by telephone throughout Wednesday and early Thursday. The decision to finally take a radical, systemwide step came after an endless stream of conference calls involving Fed, Treasury and Securities and Exchange Commission officials, one participant recalled, when Mr. Bernanke said: ''We have got to go to Congress.'' Mr. Paulson concurred.
On Thursday afternoon, the two men, along with Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, went to the White House to explain their plan. ''The president said, 'Let's do it,' '' an official said. ''There was no hesitation.''
Within hours, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke were in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, briefing Congressional leaders on how bleak the situation was. Lawmakers were shaken but offered tentative support. Torn by conflicting imperatives to take action and to go home to campaign, they seemed alternately grateful and resentful of the new power couple in Washington. Some referred to ''President Paulson'' and others groused about an unelected central bank chairman doling out hundreds of billions of dollars.
Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke came under fire for being too aggressive and for not being aggressive enough. Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, said they were killing the free market. R. Glenn Hubbard, former chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said they should have acted sooner.
''The opportunity to have taken bold action would obviously have been better had they done it months ago,'' he said. ''But better late than never.''
In the end, what left so many lawmakers and economists frustrated was the sense that no one had a better idea. So they waited for Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke to give them more details about what they wanted to do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Ben S. Bernanke in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) GRAPHIC: HENRY M. PAULSON ON THE ECONOMY: The Treasury secretary's evolving public statements. A video of Mr. Paulson's positions is available at nytimes.com. (pg.A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%); BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



617 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: For Premier Of Britain, Grip on Job Is Weakened

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In the 1960s, Harold Wilson, another embattled Labor Party prime minister faced with a disastrous economic crisis, coined a phrase that has come down the decades as a measure of the cruel vicissitudes of public life. ''A week is a long time in politics,'' he said. 
 In the past week, Gordon Brown, 10 Downing Street's current occupant, has faced an economic crisis in Britain's banking and mortgage sector as severe as anything that confounded Mr. Wilson, and the buffeting it has given the government has further weakened Mr. Brown's already shaky standing in the Labor Party and with the electorate. Only 15 months after he succeeded in his long effort to push Tony Blair into retirement and take the prime minister's job, he faces the very real threat of being driven from office himself. 
 Whether Mr. Brown can survive to lead Labor against the resurgent Conservatives in an election that must be held by June 2010 may be clearer after what Labor insiders are describing as a do-or-die event for the prime minister: his speech on Tuesday to the annual Labor Party conference in Manchester. But as he prepares for that daunting moment, Mr. Brown, 57, the dogged son of a Scottish Presbyterian minister, may reflect that it has been a year, more than just a week, that has caused the drastic reversal in his fortunes.
 Last fall, Mr. Brown, then fresh in office, spent weeks teasing Britain with the prospect of a snap general election, one that opinion polls said was likely to give Labor a comfortable victory and a fourth consecutive term in office -- a record that would have matched that of the Conservatives in their heyday of the 1980s and 1990s. But after a tour-de-force speech by the Conservative leader, David Cameron, in October at the Tories' annual conference and a rally in the Conservatives' poll standing, Mr. Brown pulled the plug on Labor's election plans.
 Britain's tabloid columnists took no time in convicting Mr. Brown of ''bottling it,'' a phrase borrowed from sports-page slang describing a moment of fatal indecision that seizes defeat from the jaws of victory. It is a charge often leveled against Britain's underperforming national soccer and cricket teams, and it carves deep wounds in the British psyche. 
 In Mr. Brown's case, it fostered an image of ill-tempered dithering and grumpy introspection -- all the more marked for the contrast with Mr. Blair's breezy self-confidence -- from which he has not recovered.
 More than anything, Mr. Brown has suffered from the battering he has taken on his main claim to the Downing Street job: his reputation, during a decade as Britain's finance minister under Mr. Blair, of being a ''safe pair of hands'' in preserving the long run of prosperity in Britain that now seems to be over. Over the spring and summer, he declared that Britain's economy was fundamentally sound, that the threats it faced were global in nature, stemming primarily from the United States, and that the country was better placed than any other in Europe to weather the downturn.
 But those claims now stand widely discredited. Increasingly, the view among British economists is that Mr. Brown, in tandem with Mr. Blair, allowed Britain to float on a sea of debt, much of it tied to an unsustainable boom in housing prices, with the government blithely reluctant to step in and apply the brakes. Among those critics, Mr. Brown is regarded now as a man in denial, a criticism that gained momentum last week when he said he was committed to ''cleaning up the financial system'' and curbing ''irresponsibility'' by banks and investment houses, without even a glancing acknowledgment that the excesses occurred on his watch as finance minister.
 Senior government ministers have described a similar pattern in their encounters with the prime minister. After a cabinet meeting earlier in the week to discuss policies to be unveiled at the Manchester conference, British papers quoted several unidentified ministers as expressing shock. 
 They said Mr. Brown had used much of the session in an angry denunciation of Mr. Cameron and the Conservatives, and had said little about Labor steps to redress the situation. ''There were people staring at their hands, some scribbling on their papers, someone else on a BlackBerry,'' The Times of London quoted one participant as saying.
 Brown loyalists in the cabinet, who have attributed the dissension in the party to a rump of vengeful ''Blairites'' intent on punishing Mr. Brown for unseating Mr. Blair, took heart at the prime minister's role in the talks at midweek that produced the biggest banking merger in Britain's history, the $22 billion takeover by Lloyds TSB of the troubled HBOS bank. As Wall Street reeled from the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the Federal Reserve's rescue of the A.I.G. insurance company, Mr. Brown ordered British competition rules set aside to make the Lloyds deal possible, a step aimed at avoiding a broader banking meltdown. 
 The images that aides conveyed of the prime minister working deep into the night with officials of the banks and the Treasury to save the country from an economic collapse on the scale of the 1930s played to Mr. Brown's argument that only he had the experience to guide the country through its economic woes, and that he would not allow himself to be ''distracted'' by squabbling within Labor over his future. By working hard ''to see the people of this country through these difficult times,'' as Prime Minister Brown has put it, he expects to eventually regain popular favor and lead Labor to another election victory. 
 But recent portents have suggested that his hopes of personal redemption may be premature. A major blow came at midweek when a junior minister, David Cairns, a former Catholic priest serving in the Scotland Office, quit the government over Mr. Brown's leadership, the first government minister to do so. Mr. Cairns said it was not credible to ''go on denying'' -- as Mr. Brown's aides and cabinet loyalists have done for months -- that questioning of the prime minister's leadership was rife at senior levels of the party.
 Better, Mr. Cairns said, to ''clear the air'' with a leadership contest, a step few in Labor believe Mr. Brown could survive.
 Opinion polls continue to show deteriorating support for Mr. Brown and Labor, to a point that many British political analysts believe may be beyond recovery. On Thursday, a poll by Ipsos Mori, widely regarded as one of Britain's more reliable polling companies, put the Conservatives ahead of Labor by 52 percent to 24 percent, the first time any major poll has put the Conservatives above 50 percent since August 1988, after Margaret Thatcher's third election victory. The Conservatives' margin of 28 percentage points was similar to the lead Mr. Blair and Labor had before his first election victory, by a landslide, in 1997.
 Potentially even more threatening to Mr. Brown, an online survey of Labor advocates reported Friday in the national newspaper The Independent showed 54 percent of respondents in favor of having someone other than him lead the party into the next election. The survey was conducted by Labourhome.org, an online forum for Labor members that is not financed or controlled by the party. 
 While unscientific, the survey could be especially damaging on the eve of the party conference because it ran counter to one of the Brown loyalists' principal arguments: that his backing among party rank and file was strong enough to overcome unrest among Labor members of Parliament, more than a dozen of whom have publicly called for Mr. Brown to go. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Gordon Brown, on Friday in Manchester, is politically embattled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER FURLONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); SOCCER (60%); WRITERS (50%); CRICKET (50%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%); DAVID CAMERON (79%); TONY BLAIR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (70%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (72%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



618 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3665 words

HEADLINE: Flirting With Disaster

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and CHARLES DUHIGG; Landon Thomas Jr. contributed reporting.

 BODY:
EARLY last Monday morning, Richard S. Fuld Jr., the longtime chief executive of Lehman Brothers, put his 158-year-old firm into bankruptcy, burying a company where he had spent his entire career. 
 Several hours later, John A. Thain, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch, climbed a stage in Manhattan and told his employees, most of whom he had barely gotten to know during his brief tenure, that he was selling the troubled firm to the Bank of America Corporation.
 Although both men played starring roles in a cataclysm that has threatened to break the economic backbone of the United States and has rearranged the financial landscape, their firms are hardly the only ones wounded in the crisis. And what began with falling house prices has escalated into staggering bank and stock-market losses, unleashing deep-rooted uncertainty about the resilience of the economy.
 Over the last six months alone, the federal government has ponied up hundreds of billions in taxpayer funds to try to blunt the impact of outsize financial blunders on Wall Street and at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the American International Group. On Friday, the government took extraordinary and historic steps to save some firms and restore investor confidence by proposing to buy hundreds of billions of dollars in distressed assets. 
 Lehman had pleaded with regulators for months to use similar tactics to rescue it, but to no avail. Merrill, on the other hand, was able to stay in the game just long enough to find a suitor and benefit from the federal bailout announced on Friday.
 Mr. Thain and Mr. Fuld made different strategic decisions over the last year that shaped radically diverse outcomes for their employees and shareholders. But the chaotic backdrop also spelled death for some companies and unlikely survival for others. Indeed, had last week's government bailout arrived sooner, Lehman, like Merrill, might still exist. 
 A reserved and almost robotic executive, Mr. Thain approached Merrill's fate like a technocrat, coolly assessing his options and selling the company before the pain got worse. Mr. Fuld, a passionate, dedicated and combative leader, kept struggling to survive until his firm finally ran into the ground. 
 ''We are all prisoners of where we have been. The longer you are attached to a place, the harder it is to see it without rose-colored glasses,'' says James D. Cox, a professor at the Duke University School of Law. ''When Mr. Thain got to Merrill, he started moving quickly to put the problems behind him.''
 ''But Mr. Fuld helped build Lehman,'' he adds. ''He had spent his entire career there and helped build some of the assets that ended up causing so many problems. It's almost impossible to force yourself to completely reconceptualize your career and your life, and undo the company you built.''
 Other than being in the same business, Mr. Thain, 53, and Mr. Fuld, 62, appear to have little in common. Mr. Fuld is a classic Wall Street trader -- taking big risks, reaping huge rewards, exuding intensity and demanding loyalty. A University of Colorado graduate, he stumbled into the industry and through sheer determination rose from a trading floor to the highest ranks of his profession. 
 Mr. Thain, a dead ringer for Clark Kent, is cautiously amiable and seemed to act out, rather than inhabit, the role of C.E.O. A graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he spent his career at Goldman Sachs and the New York Stock Exchange before Merrill's board asked him to calm a firm rife with palace politics and glaringly lax risk management. 
 In the end, the technocrat brought Merrill a measure of safety, though only by the narrowest of margins.
 And the defiance and independence that marked Mr. Fuld's tenure and made him one of Wall Street's most admired chief executives served him poorly when -- like many -- he misjudged the severity of the financial upheaval. 
 ''Everyone on Wall Street is navigating uncharted waters right now,'' said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, a professor at the Yale School of Management. ''No one could have dreamed it would have gotten this bad, and now that it is, no one is completely certain which choices were right and which were wrong.''
 LAST October, E. Stanley O'Neal, Merrill's ambitious chief executive, was forced to resign after reporting a $2.3 billion loss and making a desperate and unapproved attempt to find a merger partner. About two weeks later, the board announced that it had hired Mr. Thain. 
 At the time, Mr. Thain said he took the job because Merrill had the best wealth management business in the world and a premier investment banking franchise. Privately, he told friends that he wanted to resurrect the ''MGM'' days when Merrill, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley dominated investment banking. 
 But his immediate needs were more prosaic: raising money to fill the firm's dwindling coffers. Even before Mr. Thain arrived, Merrill executives concluded that they needed to raise money in order to survive.
 Mr. Thain argued to investors that he hadn't created the debacle enveloping Merrill and that he came to the firm to fix its problems. On Christmas Eve, he announced that he had raised $6.2 billion; a few weeks later, he announced an additional $6.6 billion. 
 Just as important, he began an internal charm offensive. In January, a day before Merrill announced its annual earnings, Mr. Thain traveled to Arizona to meet with 800 of the firm's wealth managers. He warned them that the firm's results would be bad. But he promised that the company was on the right track. As he exited the stage, he was followed by Money, a live bull who was a flesh-and-blood embodiment of Merrill's ubiquitous corporate logo. 
 The next day Merrill announced a huge hit: $9.8 billion in losses and $16.7 billion in write-downs. Speaking to investors, Mr. Thain said he was ''confident that we have the capital base we need to go forward with 2008.'' A few weeks later in a private meeting with a group of investors at the company's headquarters in New York, Mr. Thain reassured them that he would take a tough-love approach.
 ''We've got fresh eyes on these problems, and we're not wedded to believing this company has done everything right for years,'' he said, according to two participants in that meeting, who requested anonymity because the talks were confidential. 
 ''Look at Citi,'' he said, referring to Citigroup, the banking giant. ''If the 800-pound gorilla has to raise money, then everyone should be asking if it isn't time to do the same.''
 As Merrill wrestled with its financial demons, Lehman seemed in better shape. 
 Earlier this year, Mr. Fuld, who started as a Lehman intern 42 years ago and had run the firm since 1994, was basking in two quarters of surprisingly good results. Investors were hammering his stock, but he saw those downturns as opportunities to dole out more shares to employees he believed would benefit when the storm passed.
 After all, he was fond of noting, life on Wall Street was war.
 ''Every day is a grind, every day we're in it, really trying to trudge through the stuff, and don't think this is a walk through the park,'' he said in an interview last fall. ''Every day is a battle: think about the firm, do the right thing, protect your client, protect the firm, be in it, be a good team member.''
 Lehman executives took comfort in the fact that their balance sheet was heavily weighted with commercial real estate -- which they felt was immune to the mess in residential housing. Moreover, Lehman didn't hold the same type of bundled mortgages, known as collateralized debt obligations, that had hamstrung Merrill.
 Earlier this year, when Lehman's chief financial officer, Erin Callan, met with some investors at the company's headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, she exuded confidence. 
 During the meeting an investor challenged Ms. Callan, according to two participants who requested anonymity because they did not want to jeopardize their relationships with senior executives. With firms like Citigroup and Merrill raising capital, the investor asked, why wasn't Lehman following suit?
 Ms. Callan was brusque, the two participants recalled. Glaring at her questioner, she said that Lehman didn't need more money at the time -- after all, it had yet to post a loss during the credit crisis. The company had industry veterans in the executive suite who had perfected the science of risk management, she said. 
 According to both investors, she said Lehman's real estate investments were top-notch. ''This company's leadership has been here so long that they know the strengths and weaknesses,'' participants recalled her saying. ''We know when we need to be worried, and when we don't.'' 
 In an interview, Ms. Callan challenged that version of events and said that she was never defensive with investors. While conceding that she may have said those things, she thinks that investors who met with her took her comments out of context.
 Lehman had been searching for a strategic partner for almost two years to buy a 10 percent or 15 percent stake in it -- a move that would have made its stock less volatile and expand its business -- according to people briefed on the discussions. 
 In 2006, it had unsuccessfully tried to team up with American International Group, the insurance behemoth. A year later it considered links with state investment agencies in Kuwait and China. Mr. Fuld and other Lehman executives also held discussions with Mizuho Corporate Bank of Japan, these people said.
 But those deals hadn't panned out. And as the credit crisis grew, investors were increasingly wary of the firm. 
 After federal regulators intervened to stop a collapse of Bear Stearns in March, Lehman's stock fell 45 percent in two days. Shortly after, it reported meager profits of $489 million and write-downs of $1.8 billion -- and soon after, it raised $4 billion in new capital.
 With Bear gone, Lehman became the smallest investment bank on Wall Street. A chorus of whispers began: Lehman is next. Critics began opining that a world of woe lurked on its balance sheet. In May, David Einhorn, a well-regarded hedge fund manager, began publicly questioning the company's accounting and mocking Ms. Callan's self-assurance.
 As the stock declined, Mr. Fuld authorized his executives to seek a minority investment from a deep-pocketed investor, which would give the market confidence, according to people briefed on the discussions. Potential investors were said to include General Electric, HSBC and Barclays. 
 Top executives still believed Lehman could remain independent. The market, however, disagreed. 
 As Lehman tried to make a case with the media and regulators that investors betting against its stock were unfairly going after the firm, top executives increasingly realized that their strategy was failing and assets were withering. 
 In June, Lehman was forced to unveil its second-quarter earnings early -- an unexpected loss of $2.8 billion. Mr. Fuld replaced the president, Joseph Gregory, his closest friend at the company, and demoted Ms. Callan, who later left. 
 Lehman raised $6 billion more in capital and explored selling parts of its business. But neither management shake-ups nor promises that a dramatic turnaround was forthcoming stopped the stock from dropping. 
 AS Lehman publicly struggled, Merrill was quietly trying to right its ship. 
 In spite of Mr. Thain's assurances in January that Merrill wouldn't need new capital, the plummeting value of its mortgage securities soon made it apparent to its executives that they needed more funds.
 Inside Merrill, Mr. Thain had drawn criticism for being aloof and for surrounding himself with a small cadre of colleagues from his previous jobs. 
 By July, when the stocks of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac began spiraling downward, it was clear to investors everywhere that problems within the housing market were getting out of control. 
 Most consumers could see the reality of collapsing home prices for themselves. Within banks like Merrill, other hidden dangers existed: a dizzying array of complex products, known as derivatives, that tied mortgage-related securities, other assets and debts to companies here and overseas -- a daisy chain that amplified the downturn. 
 Knowing he was caught in this web, Mr. Thain announced in July that he would sell some assets, including the firm's stake in Bloomberg, the financial data and media company, for $4.4 billion. Merrill also raised $8.5 billion in a deal that severely diluted Merrill's shareholders. It reported a second-quarter loss of $4.6 billion and $9.7 billion in write-downs.
 A few weeks later, Mr. Thain announced a deal that stunned the markets: he offloaded $31 billion of toxic mortgage assets to Lone Star, a small investment company, for 22 cents on the dollar. Merrill had to finance 75 percent of the sale. Analysts uniformly agreed that Lone Star got a sweet deal.
 ''We have over 60,000 people working every day,'' Mr. Thain said in an interview at the time, responding to criticism that he had sold the assets for a song. ''All the efforts of these people were overwhelmed by the write-downs in the mortgage-related assets.''
 Within months it would become clear that the Lone Star deal had, in fact, helped give Merrill extra time by untethering it from a block of ugly assets that might have stood in the way of a merger.
 As the crisis escalated in July and August, Lehman was also racing to shore up its weaknesses. But investors had been burned by earlier investments in struggling financial service companies and were tapped out. 
 Still, Lehman executives held out hope that they would be able to save themselves by selling a stake to the Korea Development Bank, a state bank. But when Mr. Fuld, ever the tough negotiator, pushed the bank to take over some underperforming loans, the Koreans balked.
 By Labor Day, a tidal wave was crashing down on the entire economy and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had become the centers of concern. Hoping to prevent companies of all sizes from toppling into one another like dominos, the government bailed out the two mortgage giants for about $200 billion.
 While most banks and brokerage stocks soared on the news, including Merrill's, Lehman's stock dropped more than 50 percent in the two days following the bailout. 
 As government officials quietly said they were done rescuing financial firms, Lehman scrambled to find a solution. It was waiting for bids on its investment management division, a deal it hoped might secure $5 billion to $6 billion. It also floated the idea of splitting itself in two to create a separate company to house its troubled assets. 
 Then, just over a week ago, Lehman announced a $4 billion loss and a $5.6 billion write-down. It also said it would spin out $30 billion of troubled assets into a separate company. 
 ''We've been through adversity before, and we always come out a lot stronger,'' Mr. Fuld said in a conference call on Sept. 10, sounding unusually resigned and utterly exhausted. 
 The markets didn't buy it. Clients pulled money from Lehman, other firms wanted trading guarantees and Lehman finally ran out of cash. After surviving more than a century, Lehman would be dead within days unless someone stepped in. 
 ON a rainy afternoon nine days ago, with just an hour's notice, Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, summoned Wall Street's leading chief executives to a meeting at the Fed's cavernous downtown offices. Many were getting ready to leave for the weekend, and all of them were worn out after a treacherous week.
 Notably absent from the meeting was Mr. Fuld, who was scrambling to strike a deal with Bank of America, said people briefed on the negotiations. Mr. Geithner, who declined interview requests, told the gathering the government wouldn't rescue Lehman, according to various participants. It was up to the industry to find a solution, he said. 
 Although Lehman's woes were in the headlines, some participants wondered if they shouldn't be talking about other troubled firms as well. Weren't A.I.G.'s problems just as big, if not bigger? James Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, said A.I.G. had hired his bank, which was trying to find a solution. 
 Others in the room focused on Merrill's sagging stock and huge debt burden. If Lehman collapsed, participants wondered to themselves, was Merrill next? Some banks were so concerned that they considered stopping trading with Merrill if Lehman went under. 
 When the meeting broke up at 8:30 p.m., Mr. Geithner asked the executives to return at 9 the next morning and to count on spending most of the weekend trying to build a bulwark against the biggest economic firestorm since the Great Depression.
 On Saturday morning, when Mr. Thain arrived at the Fed, Lehman had returned to the center of discussion. Various scenarios, including the impact of a Lehman bankruptcy, were considered; everyone knew that Bank of America and Barclays were considering buying Lehman but had wanted government backing. Regulators made it clear that that wasn't going to happen.
 During the morning session, Mr. Thain sat across the table from Herbert H. McDade III, Lehman's president. ''I don't want to be in his seat,'' Mr. Thain thought to himself, according to a person familiar with his thinking. 
 And to make sure he didn't wind up in that seat within days, Mr. Thain decided Merrill had to do something bold by Monday. His hope was to sell about a 10 percent stake to a cash-rich partner. 
 His first call was to Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, who had long coveted Merrill. Mr. Thain got Mr. Lewis's phone number from Gregory J. Fleming, Merrill's president, who wanted a tie-up between the two. Mr. Fleming was worried that if Bank of America purchased Lehman first, the bank wouldn't cut a deal with Merrill. 
 Mr. Lewis raised the ante: he said he wasn't interested in buying just a stake in Merrill. He wanted the whole company. Mr. Lewis flew to New York from the bank's headquarters in Charlotte, N.C., to meet with Mr. Thain on Saturday afternoon in a corporate apartment. 
 Those conversations went well. But then Mr. Thain trekked back to the Fed, where another surprise awaited. Peter Kraus, his head of strategy, told him that Goldman Sachs was interested in buying a 9.9 percent stake and extending a $10 billion credit line, according to people briefed on the discussions. 
 And Goldman wasn't the only other interested suitor. John J. Mack, chief executive of Morgan Stanley, told Mr. Thain that ''we should talk,'' according to people familiar with the discussions. A two-hour meeting was held that afternoon on the Upper East Side with the C.E.O.'s and their advisers.
 But by Saturday afternoon, Mr. Fleming was already leading Merrill's bankers and lawyers through a quick scouring of Bank of America and its proposal, giving the North Carolina bank a leg up.
 Around 9 on Sunday morning, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, told the Fed group that Lehman hadn't found a buyer and that they should brace for its bankruptcy.
 ATTENTION immediately shifted to Merrill Lynch, which many were certain would be the next to topple. Bankers started discussing the possibility of creating a vast liquidity pool that the next troubled institution could tap into. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Thain set a noon conference call with his board. He said he expected a bid from Bank of America and had held discussions with Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, according to people briefed on the discussions. He concluded that Mr. Lewis's bid -- a takeover of the entire company at a premium price -- was the best offer. 
 At a 6 p.m. meeting with his board at the St. Regis hotel, Mr. Thain recommended to his board that it accept. The deal was unanimously approved. 
 For Lehman, the weekend shaped up very differently.
 On Friday night, Lehman executives believed a deal with Bank of America was possible, according to people briefed on the negotiations. But by Saturday, they couldn't get Bank of America to return their calls. 
 Mr. Fuld stayed in his office from 7 a.m. until after midnight on Saturday and on Sunday, calling regulators, potential buyers and his own team. But his options were fading. Even promising talks with Barclays, a British bank, were running aground. 
 Late in the day on Sunday, Mr. Fuld learned that the Fed would expand its lending by allowing banks to post a wider variety of collateral, and that the banking industry had cobbled together a $70 billion lending pool.
 According to people briefed on the conversations, Mr. Fuld implored the regulators to let Lehman have access to those new funds -- a move that he believed would have saved the firm. No, he was told: these measures are to stabilize the market in the aftermath of a Lehman liquidation, not to prevent it. 
 In fact, the pool was intended to help Merrill, industry participants said. Ironically, though, Merrill wouldn't need that capital because it was completing its deal with Bank of America. 
 Regulators and bankers tried to wait for Lehman's bankruptcy filing before announcing the two new lending options. But by 10 Sunday night, Lehman still hadn't filed, because Mr. Fuld was still trying to do a deal with Barclays. 
 After Barclays fell through, Mr. Fuld directed his lawyers at 12:30 a.m. Monday to file for bankruptcy. Within hours, Mr. Thain announced his deal.
 On Wednesday, Barclays offered the bankruptcy court $1.75 billion -- far less than Lehman wanted for that firm's core capital markets and investment banking business, its headquarters and two data centers.
 And with each day the drama continues. On Friday, the rumor mill was speculating that a huge market rebound sparked by the federal bailout of Wall Street might mean that Merrill wouldn't need to sell itself to Bank of America. 
 Both companies insist the deal is still on. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two men left the offices of Lehman Brothers in New York last week. The government refused to bail out the brokerage firm, leading it to file for bankruptcy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS)
Lehman Brothers' C.E.O., Richard Fuld Jr., started as a intern 42 years ago and ran the firm for the last 14 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA MAYO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.BU10)
The news was a photo op for tourists in New York on Monday. Lehman Brothers sought bankruptcy protection, and Merrill Lynch announced a buyout deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
John Thain, left, called Kenneth Lewis of Bank of America to offer a stake in Merrill. Mr. Lewis suggested a buyout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (pg.BU11) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) (pg.BU1)
CHART: PARALLEL PATHS WITH DIFFERENT OUTCOMES: Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers, two major investment banks, rode similar paths of decline but had vastly different endgames. By last week, Lehman had filed for bankruptcy and Merrill had found a merger partner. (Sources: Bloomberg
 the companies) (pg.BU11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); HOME PRICES (54%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (89%); JOHN THAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



619 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR: BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: President Paul of Michigan

BYLINE: By EILEEN POLLACK. 
Eileen Pollack is the author, most recently, of the story collection ''In the Mouth.''

DATELINE: Ann Arbor, Mich. 

 BODY:
 JUDGING the political climate in my state by walking around lefty Ann Arbor is like a polar bear judging global warming by staring at the ice cube beneath its feet. And so, on a misty Sunday not long ago, I drove 30 miles northwest to Howell, a town that is still trying to live down its reputation as the former home of a Ku Klux Klan grand dragon.
 At first glance, Howell has gone upscale. Except for a notice offering deals on foreclosed houses, I saw little evidence of the dismal Michigan economy. A few storefronts stood empty, but the Uptown Coffeehouse was bustling, if only with out-of-towners. 
 Ten years ago, you wouldn't have found a coffeehouse in Howell -- or seen a mixed-race family crossing the street to the farmers' market. 
 I parked and walked over to the market to buy some produce. The first table was arrayed with shining round beets like the heads of ruddy cherubs, peppers in every hue and scallions so beautiful they seemed like works of art. The kindly woman behind the stand told me that her husband grew these vegetables on their farm near Bad Axe, ''in the Thumb,'' which I know to be the section of the state where Timothy McVeigh's compatriot, Terry Nichols, spent time on his brother's farm. 
 She lives part of the week in Howell, driving to her job at the university in Ann Arbor, and then telecommutes another day a week from Bad Axe. When I asked her about the election, she said that until recently she was confused, but she is excited about Sarah Palin, who is ''focused,'' ''a real firecracker,'' with the experience in foreign affairs to team with John McCain to ''unify all the nations and bring peace to the world.'' 
 I asked her about the economy, and worry clouded her face. The pain the rest of the country is now feeling hit Michigan first, she said. But as farmers, she and her husband have always figured ''we need to do it ourselves -- no one else is accountable.''
 At another table, when I brought up the election, what burst out wasn't confusion but anger. ''Both sides stink!'' the farmer said. Her friends aren't going to vote, but she tells them if they don't, they can't complain. ''They've taken away all my other rights,'' she said, ''but I still have my right to vote.''
 The farmer beside her -- he wore an identical orange T-shirt, but they seemed to share a booth only to cut their costs -- interrupted to say that ''John McCain is a war hero and the only candidate who's fit to be president.'' But when I asked if he would be voting for Mr. McCain, his rage seemed hot enough to boil his vegetables. ''No,'' he practically shouted. ''I'm not voting for any of them.'' He said he resents paying taxes on all three of his properties, then muttered that ''something went wrong in this country'' and ''what gives them the right, I'd like to know.''
 On my way out of town, I drove around most of Howell. Every second or third house was flying an American flag, but I found only one lawn with a (crumpled) McCain sign. Miraculously, the owners of one car and one house proclaimed their support for Barack Obama, and one bumper sticker still said ''Hillary.''
 The person who's racking up the votes is Ron Paul. The residents sport Ron Paul signs on their lawns. They've painted Ron Paul in big letters on their cars. They've hung Ron Paul signs in the windows of their businesses (including Mama Gaia's, which specializes in ''living, parenting and healing naturally'').
 In the past, Michiganders who lived in towns as different as Ann Arbor and Howell maintained a fragile peace by staying away from one another. Now, we mingle more than we used to. But with the election turning up the anger in communities all over the state, we find ourselves as far apart as ever. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CRAZYIEYE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



620 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE COLLEGE ISSUE; Pg. 85

LENGTH: 2497 words

HEADLINE: The Camera-Friendly, Perfectly Pixelated, Easily Downloadable Celebrity Academic

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
Some Japanese have an expression for a charming professor: a charisma-sensei. You know the type. He's actorly, perhaps a little too smooth; he enthralls students. Not too long ago, university authorities considered him suspect. He was cool, sure, but was he scholarly enough? A charisma-sensei's tenure battle, during which dour publish-or-perish administrators disparaged his sweetness and light, might be a freshman's or sophomore's first exposure to intellectual and moral injury. He was Professor Chips; he was Prof. Jean Brodie.
 Oh, but those days are long gone. Now a charisma-sensei -- lucid, affable, groomed for ''The Charlie Rose Show'' -- is all but a tenure shoo-in, an asset no blue-chip university can be without. On TV or billboarded on the Barnes & Noble front table, the charisma-sensei is an emissary for the relevance and exuberance of the brand, be it Harvard, Yale or Chaucer. Best of all, his online lectures now might go viral, playing around the world -- beyond the reach even of Charlie Rose! -- alongside clips of the Chinese Olympian Qiu Jian or the Lebanese singer Fairuz in concert. What better way to prove an institution's embrace of globalism, new technology and populist models of information dissemination? 
 Last December, The Times chronicled the rise to international glory of Walter H. G. Lewin, a physics professor at M.I.T. whose lectures, available free on the Web using the university's proprietary OpenCourseWare software (developed in 2002), are among the Internet's most downloaded. They also regularly inspire e-raptures: ''Through your inspiring video lectures I have managed to see just how beautiful physics is, both astounding and simple,'' wrote one commenter, a 17-year-old from India.
 M.I.T. had a head start with its software, but in short order other universities began clamoring to broadcast their lectures free. Duke, Yale and Stanford now serve as ''providers'' on iTunes U, which appeared in May of last year to make lectures available to download (under one Apple roof). Then, several months later, a lightweight Web site called Big Think started: an ad-driven forum for videos of lectures by intellectuals, some with university appointments. 
 Many online lectures are now listed on various platforms, including iTunes U, university sites (OYC.yale.edu, ocw.mit.edu, bu.edu/today/buniverse), all-purpose instruction sites (Rice University's Cnx.org and OERCommons .com) and general-interest video clearinghouses like YouTube. 
 Given the difficulty of calculating ratings Webwide, the viewership for these lectures is typically gauged by how they perform on iTunes U, where each video must be fully downloaded (and not merely clicked on) before it earns a popularity point. The top of the iTunes U chart features some self-help fluff on abs and guitar instruction, but it also brims with provocative titles like ''How Did Hannibal Cross the Alps?'' by Patrick Hunt of Stanford (audio only); ''String Theory: What Is It Good For?'' by Sera Cremonini of the University of Michigan; and ''What Makes a Terrorist?'' by Alan B. Krueger of Princeton (also audio only).
 Recently, I set out to learn something -- anything, as long as it was a little bit impressive -- from lecture videos online. Though some of the audio-only tracks on iTunes U interested me, I chose to focus on lectures I could also watch. I didn't know how to be systematic, so I wasn't. Instead, I watched lectures that seemed prestigious, popular, both and neither; I followed my interests and I followed other peoples' interests. I got a particular kick out of seeing lecturers -- like Harvey Mansfield of Harvard -- that I'd heard were legendary and whose disquisitions I'd insecurely imagined as conspiratorial meetings in which it was formally decided that those present were truly educated and the rest of us weren't. And so, finally, I would be in on the secrets! And truly educated! Herewith, the five charisma-senseis that no online student should miss.
 Walter H. G. Lewin, Powers of 10, M.I.T. (Video)
 Why lecture at all? Why not just make students buy your book? Take one look at Walter H. G. Lewin, a professor of physics at M.I.T., and you'll never ask again. Lewin, a prizewinning teacher, has proved to be box-office gold since his courses went online in 2003, as part of M.I.T.'s pioneering OpenCourseWare project. And it's no accident that he's a virtuoso at teaching: he evidently refines those lectures -- on subjects like rainbows, pendulums and rocketry -- as if they were mathematical proofs. He cuts every extraneous word and streamlines the stagecraft until what's left is a 50-minute pedagogical masterpiece. 
 Replete with seemingly off-the-cuff asides and anecdotes, each Lewin lecture is actually 25 hours in the making, during which Lewin decides when exactly to write on the board, to physically demonstrate something, to recruit a student or to make a joke. The series is a sharp, potent teaching weapon, one that sliced to ribbons even this humanities student's resistance to physics, mathematics and hard science.
 Lewin, a rangy and good-looking 70-something who onstage has the physicality of a much younger man, could be played by Ralph Fiennes or Ed Harris. His decisive chalk strokes on the rolling, multilayer M.I.T. chalkboards alone manage to turn high-level numeracy into a tennislike sport: something requiring aggression, hand-eye coordination and laserlike focus. But not only does Lewin convey enthusiasm for his subject -- a ''Dead Poets Society'' talent that perhaps ought to be superfluous in a nuclear physicist speaking to the best and the brightest -- but he also empowers his students by demonstrating the way of the physicist and assuming you can walk it with him. Watching the lectures, I keenly wanted to rise to Lewin's confidence; I dredged up anything I could possible remember about high-level math and used it to follow his demonstrations. Sometimes, I got lost. But always I felt both smart and challenged. And prepared, as the next lecture rolled, to try again.
 Randy Pausch, Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams, Carnegie Mellon (Video)
 For months I resisted the hugely popular ''Last Lecture'' of Randy Pausch, who was a computer-science professor at Carnegie Mellon until he died of pancreatic cancer in July. I worried that the spiel, which later became a book called ''The Last Lecture,'' would be too inspirational, too elegiac, too sad. Too Tony Robbins. It wouldn't qualify, in short, as an academic lecture. But once I set the video rolling, I changed my mind before Pausch finished his opening thank-yous. 
 Most striking, Pausch embodies a particularly American professorial ideal. Looking like an off-duty fighter pilot in a polo shirt, early on he drops and gives the audience some one-armed push-ups. No lecture in a cultural-studies course could sum up as succinctly the American charisma-sensei with his real-world experience, his conversational style and his commitment to ''fun.'' (That holy word turns up so many times I lost count. Toward the end, Pausch, who knew at the time he had only months to live, sums up his approach to computer science, saying, ''I'm dying and I'm having fun.'')
 What's more, the image of the American educator-salesman is a great global export. Students in Asia, facing the riddle of admission to good college and post-collegiate programs, especially in the sciences, may well find Pausch's combination of bona fide academic achievement, nerdy humor, personal disclosure and tech evangelism inspiring in the way of George Lucas or Bill Gates -- other highly decorated mavericks who talk without irony about following dreams. (At least one of Pausch's lectures is already available in Chinese translation.)
 In Pausch's case, however, the American idea of dreams-becoming-reality takes on a curiously nonmetaphorical dimension, since his academic specialty was virtual reality, the literal encoding and reification of fantasies. His enthusiastic tales of working at Disney designing rides and starting a course at Carnegie Mellon called ''Building Virtual Worlds'' are at bottom little more than adventures in alliance building and bureaucracy avoiding. But his capacity to find opportunities for heroism in institutional politics is surprisingly moving -- and quite enough to make an aspiring engineer, here or abroad, resolve to vanquish naysayers or software bugs and turn his most arcane mental pleasures into chances for profit and laurels. 
 Dan Ariely, Predictably Irrational, Duke and M.I.T. (Video)
 Dan Ariely had a revelation while bedridden after a horrible accident that burned 70 percent of his body. His nurses, wonderfully caring people who knew well the science of burns, nonetheless subjected him to unnecessary agony, he decided, because they believed that bandages ought to be torn off quickly, when -- as his subsequent research showed -- most people prefer low-grade pain at length to high-intensity pain for short spurts. This revelation, and the subsequent making of a ''behavioral economist,'' which is what Ariely now is -- he teaches at both Duke and M.I.T. -- is the subject of Ariely's first bite-size lecture online, ''How an Injury Led Me to Irrationality.''
 The installments in his ''Predictably Irrational'' series are short -- the length of pop songs -- and padded with too many credits, titles and promotions for both Duke and Ariely's book. They are, however, enjoyable and thought-provoking. Ariely appears half-lighted in a tuxedo, sometimes with jacket and sometimes without, as he tells of small insights into seemingly ordinary events. Montages of contemporary images play to illuminate his insights. The placebo effect, procrastination and the allure of free things come in for analysis and are brightly put into context. (An example: making the registry of a hybrid car free would be a way for the government to encourage their purchase, he argues.)
 Even for those of us who are not sure that individual marketing breakthroughs -- which admittedly follow a satisfying narrative arc -- ought to be taught as economics have to concede that this guy is cool. Furthermore, his willingness to factor human wackiness into macroeconomic phenomena demonstrates intellectual ingenuity and a gift -- like Pausch's -- for having fun. While presenting how to design research projects and moreover how to package insights, Ariely makes the potent case that the brain can be an organ of survival. 
 Langdon Hammer, Modern Poetry, Yale (Video)
 It's hard not to be biased in favor of the Open Yale courses at OYC.yale.edu simply because they are presented in such a frank, unfussy way. The silky audiovisuals start without graphic rigamarole and don't stall till they're over. Professors wear clip-on microphones but otherwise seem to conduct the classes just for the students, as in the case of Langdon Hammer, whose set of lectures on modern poetry are weak on sizzle but strong on steak. Hammer can also be seen distributing handouts and encouraging students to do their homework; he's not playing to the online bleacher seats or would-be book buyers. This is the real New Haven stuff.
 I chose one of Hammer's first lectures on Hart Crane, as Crane is the subject of several of Hammer books, including ''Hart Crane and Allen Tate: Janus-Faced Modernism.'' Indeed, he appears to take great satisfaction in simply reading Crane aloud. His signature gesture is an outstretched arm from which he twists his hand as if turning a stiff dial on the elaborate dashboard of a spaceship. With this, he suggests how well a poet encapsulates or compresses an idea. His voice is neither blase nor sporty, like Ariely's or Pausch's. Instead, it's suave and nervous at once: call it the humanities voice. Pausch stumbles as he ad-libs -- unlike the others, he evidently keeps no notes, only poems, in front of him -- but picks up fluency, tellingly, when he reads from Crane (or Eliot or Pound; it's a canonical syllabus of modernists). 
 Hammer stresses that his course is not specifically for English majors. The poets under discussion knew something about economics, science, mathematics and other fields -- and didn't consider poetry a discipline apart from the rest of the world. As a consequence of Hammer's emphasis, his poets come across as much more than emotional crooners (as might the adolescent-friendly Romantics); they're sophisticated, canny practitioners of translation and quotation. 
 This seems like the right tack to take with these urbane modernists, who slip in and out of languages and dialects and cities and who are impressive not so much as followers of dreams but as boulevardiers in bowlers -- or open-collared shirts and cashmere, which is what Hammer seems to opt for. Keen, witty, cold-eyed observers of the turning world: what undergraduate doesn't like to see himself in the Eliot paradigm?
 Christine Hayes, Introduction to the Old Testament (Hebrew Bible), Yale (Video) 
 In Christine Hayes's first lecture, she breezes into her subject -- wearing an open aqua blue shirt and matching tank top, as if on a cruise -- and quickly becomes, personally, a compelling enigma. Maybe it's immature to wonder, but what's her story? 
 Here is a specialist in Talmudic-Midrashic studies, who is the Robert F. and Patricia Ross Weis professor of religious studies in classical Judaica at Yale. As she lays out for a crowd of students how tenacious the monotheism of the early Israelites has been, how influential, how really miraculous, she shows a rousing philo-Semitism. It seems to kindle a warm glow in anyone raised as Jewish, Christian or Muslim.
 Her enthusiasm for the concept of one God might make more sense coming from a kindly rabbi or Sunday-school teacher. Delivered by a professor at Yale, where you might expect more cultural relativism and frank atheism, Introduction to the Old Testament seems at first a little off -- a high-toned monotheism infomercial.
 Except that it's not. Hayes's seemingly simple formulations twinkle with fascinating implications for contemporary religious life. In the last two centuries, she says, with the help of archaeology, we first glimpsed the ancient world; that world included many extinct cultures and one that had curiously survived; the survival of the Jews is testament to the versatility and might of the Bible. While the course sidesteps theological issues and Hayes stresses that questions about the Bible's divine inspiration will be tabled, she nonetheless reveals that the Hebrew Bible stirs in her a special kind of longing and delight. Students with even a passing familiarity with the Bible will find it hard to keep aloof from Hayes's affection.
 Intellectual pursuits can satisfy religious longings: that's a powerful lesson, and one that Hayes unfolds and demonstrates with patience and spirit.
 Pick Your Favorite Video at The Medium blog

CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in the College Issue on Sept. 21 about online lecturing misidentified a teacher who stumbled during an ad-lib in a class. He is Langdon Hammer, not Randy Pausch.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY BRYAN ISCHE, MINNEAPOLIS COLLEGE OF ART AND DESIGN
 LETTERING BY CHRISTOPH MORABITO, CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF THE ARTS) (pg.MM84, 85, 86, and 87) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CELEBRITIES (87%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); WEB SITES (60%)

PERSON: CHARLIE ROSE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



621 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Scenes, Teams for Both Candidates Plan for a Presidential Transition

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Though they hate to discuss it, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama are quietly planning what to do in the frenetic 77-day period from the presidential election to Inauguration Day, so they will be ready to take up the reins of government.
 Democrats said that John D. Podesta, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, was leading the transition preparations for Mr. Obama. Mr. Podesta, who founded a lobbying firm with his brother in 1988, is president of the Center for American Progress, a sort of government-in-exile waiting for Democrats to regain power. At the McCain campaign, Republicans said, transition work is being coordinated by William E. Timmons, a longtime Washington lobbyist whose clients have included the American Petroleum Institute and the mortgage company Freddie Mac. 
 If Mr. McCain wins, Republicans said, his transition team will probably be led by Mr. Timmons and John F. Lehman, a McCain fund-raiser who was secretary of the Navy under President Ronald Reagan.
 Both campaigns refused to discuss their transition plans, saying they did not want to jinx their chances or appear too cocky. The Obama campaign was stung in July when Republicans called Mr. Obama presumptuous for lining up transition advisers.
 Clay Johnson III, deputy director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said ''the White House staff has met with transition representatives'' for Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama.
 ''Both campaigns are doing what they need to do to be prepared to govern on Jan. 20 at noon,'' said Mr. Johnson, who was executive director of the Bush transition team in 2000-1. ''The amount of work being done before the election, formal and informal, is the most ever.''
 Mr. McCain's transition planners are working at his campaign headquarters in Arlington, Va. The Obama campaign is based in Chicago, but his transition planners are here in Washington.
 Presidential scholars, historians and former White House officials of both parties say that transition planning, far from being premature, ought to have begun months ago.
 With the nation at war and financial markets in turmoil, ''early planning for the transition is more important than ever,'' said Martha Joynt Kumar, a professor of political science at Towson University in Maryland who is director of the White House Transition Project, a nonpartisan group that provides information and assistance to the transition teams of both candidates.
 Experts on national security worry that America's opponents will try to take advantage of the uncertainty surrounding the transition, the first since the terrorist attacks of 2001.
 ''In every transition, there's a total vacuum for anywhere from three months to a year,'' Mr. Lehman said. ''It's appalling. On 9/11, President Bush had only 30 percent of his national security appointees in place, and that was eight months after the inauguration.''
 Elaine C. Duke, an under secretary of homeland security, said her department was ''poised and ready'' to work with the McCain and Obama campaigns on transition planning before the Nov. 4 election. But she said, ''We have not been contacted by either campaign.''
 Planning is essential, Ms. Duke said, because ''terrorists perceive government transitions to be periods of increased vulnerability.'' She cited the bombing of the World Trade Center five weeks after Mr. Clinton took office in 1993; the Madrid train bombings in 2004, three days before national elections in Spain; and the car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow just days after a new British prime minister took office in 2007.
 In February, Mr. Bush asked Congress for $35 million for transition activities, including $8.5 million for the General Services Administration, which provides office space, computers, telephones, travel services and other support to the transition team. 
 Congress has not acted on the budget request, and that has caused some alarm at the White House. A president-elect can use money from private donors, but must disclose the source and amount of contributions.
 To a surprising degree, Democrats and Republicans agree on the lessons to be drawn from past transitions. The most urgent task, they said, is for the president-elect to choose his top White House staff, including a personnel director, even before naming his cabinet.
 ''Selecting senior White House aides is the most important step a president-elect can take to give identity, discipline and momentum to his fledgling administration,'' said Harrison Wellford, a Carter administration official who has advised Democrats on transition planning since 1976.
 Ideally, Mr. Wellford said, the president-elect should announce his chief of staff a day after the election, name his economic and national security teams by Thanksgiving and complete his cabinet selections by mid-December.
 There are more than 1,100 presidentially appointed, Senate-confirmed positions in the executive branch. Mr. Johnson said that a new president had never had more than 25 of his cabinet and subcabinet nominees confirmed by the Senate before April 1.
 In the post-9/11 world, Mr. Johnson said, the goal should be to have at least 100 in place by April, with a total of 400 confirmed by August.
 In its final report, the 9/11 commission said the White House and Congress must ''speed up the nomination, financial reporting, security clearance and confirmation process for national security officials'' in a new administration.
 Under a 2004 law, ''each major party candidate for president may submit, before the date of the general election, requests for security clearances for prospective transition team members'' who need access to classified information while working on the transition.
 Ms. Duke said she understood that the McCain and Obama campaigns had requested security clearances for a total of about 100 people ''in the last week or so.''
 Richard E. Neustadt, a Harvard professor and presidential scholar, used to say that new presidents-elect were ''vulnerable to arrogance in ignorance,'' a sort of hubris born of innocence and inexperience in the ''golden haze'' after a grueling campaign.
 By analyzing past transitions, he said, they can avoid repeating mistakes of their predecessors.
 Mr. Wellford, a lifelong Democrat, said: ''Democrats typically have not excelled at transitions. The standard for transition success, as judged by historians, was set by Ronald Reagan. The standard for transition disappointment was set by Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter.''
 On Feb. 18, 1981, just a month after taking office, Mr. Reagan and his budget director, David A. Stockman, sent Congress a detailed blueprint for the ''Reagan revolution,'' a package of budget and tax cuts that set the agenda for the next four years. Many of the proposals became law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); NAVIES (67%); BUDGETS (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); HISTORY (61%); TERRORISM (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



622 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: Administration Is Seeking $700 Billion for Wall Street in Possible Record Bailout

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Reporting was contributed by Jeff Zeleny from Daytona Beach, Fla., and Michael Cooper, Carl Hulse, Stephen Labaton and David Stout from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Saturday formally proposed a vast bailout of financial institutions in the United States, requesting unfettered authority for the Treasury Department to buy up to $700 billion in distressed mortgage-related assets from the private firms.
 The proposal, not quite three pages long, was stunning for its stark simplicity. It would raise the national debt ceiling to $11.3 trillion. And it would place no restrictions on the administration other than requiring semiannual reports to Congress, granting the Treasury secretary unprecedented power to buy and resell mortgage debt. 
 ''This is a big package, because it was a big problem,'' President Bush said Saturday at a White House news conference, after meeting with President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia. ''I will tell our citizens and continue to remind them that the risk of doing nothing far outweighs the risk of the package, and that, over time, we're going to get a lot of the money back.'' 
 After a week of stomach-flipping turmoil in the financial system, and with officials still on edge about how global markets will respond, the delivery of the administration's plan set the stage for a four-day brawl in Congress. Democratic leaders have pledged to approve a bill but say it must also include tangible help for ordinary Americans in the form of an economic stimulus package. 
 Staff members from Treasury and the House Financial Services and Senate banking committees immediately began meeting on Capitol Hill and were expected to work through the weekend. Congressional leaders are hoping to recess at the end of the week for the fall elections, after approving the bailout and a budget measure to keep the government running.
 With Congressional Republicans warning that the bailout could be slowed by efforts to tack on additional provisions, Democratic leaders said they would insist on a requirement that the administration use its new role, as the owner of large amounts of mortgage debt, to help hundreds of thousands of troubled borrowers at risk of losing their homes to foreclosure. 
 ''It's clear that the administration has requested that Congress authorize, in very short order, sweeping and unprecedented powers for the Treasury secretary,'' the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, said in a statement. ''Democrats will work with the administration to ensure that our response to events in the financial markets is swift, but we must insulate Main Street from Wall Street and keep people in their homes.'' 
 Ms. Pelosi said Democrats would also insist on ''enacting an economic recovery package that creates jobs and returns growth to our economy.'' 
 Even as talks got under way, there were signs of how very much in flux the plan remained. The administration suggested that it might adjust its proposal, initially restricted to purchasing assets from financial institutions based in the United States, to enable foreign firms with United States affiliates to make use of it as well. 
 The ambitious effort to transfer the bad debts of Wall Street, at least temporarily, into the obligations of American taxpayers was first put forward by the administration late last week after a series of bold interventions on behalf of ailing private firms seemed unlikely to prevent a crash of world financial markets.
 A $700 billion expenditure on distressed mortgage-related assets would roughly be what the country has spent so far in direct costs on the Iraq war and more than the Pentagon's total yearly budget appropriation. Divided across the population, it would amount to more than $2,000 for every man, woman and child in the United States.
 Whatever is spent will add to a budget deficit already projected at more than $500 billion next year. And it comes on top of the $85 billion government rescue of the insurance giant American International Group and a plan to spend up to $200 billion to shore up the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 At his news conference, Mr. Bush also sought to portray the plan as helping every American. ''The government,'' he said, ''needed to send a clear signal that we understood the instability could ripple throughout and affect the working people and the average family, and we weren't going to let that happen.'' 
 A program to help troubled borrowers refinance mortgages -- along with an $800 billion increase in the national debt limit -- was approved in July. But financing for it depended largely on fees paid by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have been placed into a government conservatorship. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said in an interview that his staff had already begun working with the Senate banking committee to draft additions to the administration's proposal. 
 Mr. Frank said Democrats were particularly intent on limiting the huge pay packages for corporate executives whose firms seek aid under the new plan, raising the prospect of a contentious battle with the White House. 
 ''There are going to be federal tax dollars buying up some of the bad paper,'' Mr. Frank said. ''They should accept some compensation guidelines, particularly to get rid of the perverse incentives where it's 'heads I win, tails I break even.' '' 
 Mr. Frank said Democrats were also thinking about tightening the language on the debt limit to make clear that the additional borrowing authority could be used only for the bailout plan. And he said they might seek to revive a proposal that would give bankruptcy judges the authority to modify the terms of primary mortgages, a proposal strongly opposed by the financial industry. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who attended emergency meetings with the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, on Capitol Hill last week, described the proposal as a good start but said it did little for regular Americans. 
 ''This is a good foundation of a plan that can stabilize markets quickly,'' Mr. Schumer said in a statement. ''But it includes no visible protection for taxpayers or homeowners. We look forward to talking to Treasury to see what, if anything, they have in mind in these two areas.''
 Ms. Pelosi's statement made clear that she would push for an economic stimulus initiative either as part of the bailout legislation or, more likely, as part of the budget resolution Congress must adopt before adjourning for the fall elections. Such a plan could include an increase in unemployment benefits and spending on infrastructure projects to help create jobs. 
 Some Congressional Republicans warned Democrats not to overreach. 
 ''The administration has put forward a plan to help the American people, and it is now incumbent on Congress to work together to solve this crisis,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. 
 Mr. Boehner added, ''Efforts to exploit this crisis for political leverage or partisan quid pro quo will only delay the economic stability that families, seniors and small businesses deserve.'' 
 Aides to Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the Democratic presidential nominee, said he was reviewing the proposal. In Florida, Mr. Obama told voters he would press for a broader economic stimulus.
 ''We have to make sure that whatever plan our government comes up with works not just for Wall Street, but for Main Street,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We have to make sure it helps folks cope with rising prices, and sparks job creation, and helps homeowners stay in their homes.''
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the Republican nominee, issued a statement saying he, too, was reviewing the plan. 
 ''This financial crisis,'' Mr. McCain said, ''requires leadership and action in order to restore a sound foundation to financial markets, get our economy on its feet, and eliminate this burden on hardworking middle-class Americans.'' 
 If adopted, the bailout plan would sharply raise the stakes for the new administration on the appointment of a new Treasury secretary. 
 The administration's plan would allow the Treasury to hire staff members and engage outside firms to help manage its purchases. And officials said that the administration envisioned enlisting several outside firms to help run the effort to buy up mortgage-related assets. 
 Officials said that details were still being worked out but that one idea was for the Treasury to hold reverse auctions, in which the government would offer to buy certain classes of distressed assets at a particular price and firms would then decide if they were willing to sell at that price, or could bid the price lower. 
 Mindful of a potential political fight, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke held a series of conference calls with members of Congress on Friday to begin convincing them that action was needed not just to help Wall Street but everyday Americans as well.
 Republicans typically supportive of the administration said they were in favor of approving the plan as swiftly as possible.
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said in a statement, ''This proposal is, and should be kept, simple and clear.'' The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said that the bailout was needed but that Mr. Bush owed the public a fuller explanation. 
 Some lawmakers were more critical or even adamantly opposed to the plan. ''The free market for all intents and purposes is dead in America,'' Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, declared on Friday. 
 It is far from clear how much distressed debt the government will end up purchasing, though it seemed likely that the $700 billion figure was large enough to send a reassuring message to the jittery markets. There are estimates that firms are carrying $1 trillion or more in bad mortgage-related assets.
 The ultimate price tag of the bailout is virtually impossible to know, in part because of the possibility that taxpayers could profit from the effort, especially if the market stabilizes and real estate prices rise. 
 Lehman Can Sell to Barclays
 A federal bankruptcy judge decided early Saturday that Lehman Brothers could sell its investment banking and trading businesses to Barclays, the big British bank, the first major step to wind down the nation's fourth-largest investment bank.
 The judge, James Peck, gave his decision at the end of an eight-hour hearing, which capped a week of financial turmoil.
 The deal was said to be worth $1.75 billion earlier in the week but the value was in flux after lawyers announced changes to the terms on Friday. It may now be worth closer to $1.35 billion, which includes the $960 million price tag on Lehman's office tower in Midtown Manhattan.
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. on Monday filed the biggest bankruptcy in United States history, after Barclays PLC declined to buy the investment bank in its entirety.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); JOB CREATION (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); ALVARO URIBE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



623 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: Truthiness Stages a Comeback

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
NOT until 2004 could the 9/11 commission at last reveal the title of the intelligence briefing President Bush ignored on Aug. 6, 2001, in Crawford: ''Bin Laden Determined to Strike in U.S.'' No wonder John McCain called for a new ''9/11 commission'' to ''get to the bottom'' of 9/14, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers set off another kind of blood bath in Lower Manhattan. Put a slo-mo Beltway panel in charge, and Election Day will be ancient history before we get to the bottom of just how little he and the president did to defend America against a devastating new threat on their watch. 
 For better or worse, the candidacy of Barack Obama, a senator-come-lately, must be evaluated on his judgment, ideas and potential to lead. McCain, by contrast, has been chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, where he claims to have overseen ''every part of our economy.'' He didn't, thank heavens, but he does have a long and relevant economic record that begins with the Keating Five scandal of 1989 and extends to this campaign, where his fiscal policies bear the fingerprints of Phil Gramm and Carly Fiorina. It's not the resume that a presidential candidate wants to advertise as America faces its worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. That's why the main thrust of the McCain campaign has been to cover up his history of economic malpractice.
 McCain has largely pulled it off so far, under the guidance of Steve Schmidt, a Karl Rove protege. A Rovian political strategy by definition means all slime, all the time. But the more crucial Rove game plan is to envelop the entire presidential race in a thick fog of truthiness. All campaigns, Obama's included, engage in false attacks. But McCain, Sarah Palin and their surrogates keep repeating the same lies over and over not just to smear their opponents and not just to mask their own record. Their larger aim is to construct a bogus alternative reality so relentless it can overwhelm any haphazard journalistic stabs at puncturing it. 
 When a McCain spokesman told Politico a week ago that ''we're not too concerned about what the media filter tries to say'' about the campaign's incessant fictions, he was channeling a famous Bush dictum of 2003: ''Somehow you just got to go over the heads of the filter.'' In Bush's case, the lies lobbed over the heads of the press were to sell the war in Iraq. That propaganda blitz, devised by a secret White House Iraq Group that included Rove, was a triumph. In mere months, Americans came to believe that Saddam Hussein had aided the 9/11 attacks and even that Iraqis were among the hijackers. A largely cowed press failed to set the record straight.
 Just as the Bushies once flogged uranium from Africa, so Palin ceaselessly repeats her discredited claim that she said ''no thanks'' to the Bridge to Nowhere. Nothing is too small or sacred for the McCain campaign to lie about. It was even caught (by The Christian Science Monitor) peddling an imaginary encounter between Cindy McCain and Mother Teresa when McCain was adopting her daughter in Bangladesh. 
 If you doubt that the big lies are sticking, look at the latest Washington Post/ABC News poll. Half of voters now believe in the daily McCain refrain that Obama will raise their taxes. In fact, Obama proposes raising taxes only on the 1.9 percent of households that make more than $250,000 a year and cutting them for nearly everyone else.
 You know the press is impotent at unmasking this truthiness when the hardest-hitting interrogation McCain has yet faced on television came on ''The View.'' Barbara Walters and Joy Behar called him on several falsehoods, including his endlessly repeated fantasy that Palin opposed earmarks for Alaska. Behar used the word ''lies'' to his face. The McCains are so used to deference from ''the filter'' that Cindy McCain later complained that ''The View'' picked ''our bones clean.'' In our news culture, Behar, a stand-up comic by profession, looms as the new Edward R. Murrow. 
 Network news, with its dwindling handful of investigative reporters, has barely mentioned, let alone advanced, major new print revelations about Cindy McCain's drug-addiction history (in The Washington Post) and the rampant cronyism and secrecy in Palin's governance of Alaska (in last Sunday's New York Times). At least the networks repeatedly fact-check the low-hanging fruit among the countless Palin lies, but John McCain's past usually remains off limits.
 That's strange since the indisputable historical antecedent for our current crisis is the Lincoln Savings and Loan scandal of the go-go 1980s. When Charles Keating's bank went belly up because of risky, unregulated investments, it wiped out its depositors' savings and cost taxpayers more than $3 billion. More than 1,000 other S.&L. institutions capsized nationwide. 
 It was ugly for the McCains. He had received more than $100,000 in Keating campaign contributions, and both McCains had repeatedly hopped on Keating's corporate jet. Cindy McCain and her beer-magnate father had invested nearly $360,000 in a Keating shopping center a year before her husband joined four senators in inappropriate meetings with regulators charged with S.&L. oversight.
 After Congressional hearings, McCain was reprimanded for ''poor judgment.'' He had committed no crime and had not intervened to protect Keating from ruin. Yet he, like many deregulators in his party, was guilty of bankrupt policy-making before disaster struck. He was among the sponsors of a House resolution calling for the delay of regulations intended to deter risky investments just like those that brought down Lincoln and its ilk.
 Ever since, McCain has publicly thrashed himself for his mistakes back then -- and boasted of the lessons he learned. He embraced campaign finance reform to rebrand himself as a ''maverick.'' But whatever lessons he learned are now forgotten.
 For all his fiery calls last week for a Wall Street crackdown, McCain opposed the very regulations that might have helped avert the current catastrophe. In 1999, he supported a law co-authored by Gramm (and ultimately signed by Bill Clinton) that revoked theNew Deal reforms intended to prevent commercial banks, insurance companies and investment banks from mingling their businesses. Equally laughable is the McCain-Palin ticket's born-again outrage over the greed of Wall Street C.E.O.'s. When McCain's chief financial surrogate, Fiorina, was fired as Hewlett-Packard's chief executive after a 50 percent drop in shareholders' value and 20,000 pink slips, she took home a package worth $42 million. 
 The McCain campaign canceled Fiorina's television appearances last week after she inadvertently admitted that Palin was unqualified to run a corporation. But that doesn't mean Fiorina is gone. Gramm, too, was ostentatiouslyexiled after he blamed the economic meltdown on our ''nation of whiners'' and ''mental recession,'' but he remains in the McCain loop. 
 The corporate jets, lobbyists and sleazes that gravitated around McCain in the Keating era have also reappeared in new incarnations. The Nation's Web site recently unearthed a photo of the resolutely anticelebrity McCain being greeted by the con man Raffaello Follieri and his then girlfriend, the Hollywood actress Anne Hathaway, as McCain celebrated his 70th birthday on Follieri's rented yacht in Montenegro in August 2006. It's the perfect bookend to the old pictures of McCain in a funny hat partying with Keating in the Bahamas. 
 Whatever blanks are yet to be filled in on Obama, we at least know his economic plans and the known quantities who are shaping them (LawrenceSummers, Robert Rubin, Paul Volcker). McCain has reversed himself on every single economic issue this year, often within a 24-hour period, whether he's judging the strength of the economy's fundamentals or the wisdom of the government bailout of A.I.G. He once promised that he'd run every decision past Alan Greenspan -- and even have him write a new tax code -- but Greenspan has jumped ship rather than support McCain's biggest flip-flop, his expansion of the Bush tax cuts. McCain's official chief economic adviser is now Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who last week declared that McCain had ''helped create'' the BlackBerry.
 But Holtz-Eakin's most telling statement was about McCain's economic plans -- namely, that the details are irrelevant. ''I don't think it's imperative at this moment to write down what the plan should be,'' he said. ''The real issue here is a leadership issue.'' This, too, is a Rove-Bush replay. We want a tough guy who will ''fix'' things with his own two hands -- let's take out the S.E.C. chairman! -- instead of wimpy Frenchified Democrats who just ''talk.'' The fine print of policy is superfluous if there's a quick-draw decider in the White House.
 The twin-pronged strategy of truculence and propaganda that sold Bush and his war could yet work for McCain. Even now his campaign has kept the ''filter'' from learning the very basics about his fitness to serve as president -- his finances and his health. The McCain multihousehold's multimillion-dollar mother lode is buried in Cindy McCain's still-unreleased complete tax returns. John McCain's full medical records, our sole index to the odds of an imminent Palin presidency, also remain locked away. The McCain campaign instead invited 20 chosen reporters to speed-read through 1,173 pages of medical history for a mere three hours on the Friday before Memorial Day weekend. No photocopying was permitted. 
 This is the same tactic of selective document release that the Bush White House used to bamboozle Congress and the press about Saddam's nonexistent W.M.D. As truthiness repeats itself, so may history, and not as farce.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); HISTORY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); KARL ROVE (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



624 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''I fear the government has passed the point of no return.''
 Ron Chernow, an American financial historian. Washington's bailout package for the American International Group, on top of earlier government support for Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, has stunned even European policy makers accustomed to government intervention. 
 ''This is throwing sand in the gears of the economy.''
 G. David MacEwen, chief investment officer for the bond department of American Century Investments. Many credit markets stopped working normally as frantic investors moved their money into the safest investments.
 ''We're really in uncharted territory here.''
 Peter Crane, president of Crane Data, a fund industry newsletter. Managers of Primary Fund, a multibilliondollar money market fund, said on Tuesday that customers might lose money in the fund.
 ''They are like looters after a hurricane.''
 Andrew M. Cuomo, New York attorney general, on traders who have sought to profit from the financial crisis by betting against bank stocks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HISTORY (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (75%); ANDREW CUOMO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



625 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a President Who Gives Goose Bumps? So's Obama.

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
Now that he's finally fired up on the soup-line economy, Barack Obama knows he can't fade out again. He was eager to talk privately to a Democratic ex-president who could offer more fatherly wisdom -- not to mention a surreptitious smoke -- and less fraternal rivalry. I called the ''West Wing'' creator Aaron Sorkin (yes, truly) to get a read-out of the meeting. This is his account:
 BARACK OBAMA knocks on the front door of a 300-year-old New Hampshire farmhouse while his Secret Service detail waits in the driveway. The door opens and OBAMA is standing face to face with former President JED BARTLET.
 BARTLET Senator. 
 OBAMA Mr. President.
 BARTLET You seem startled.
 OBAMA I didn't expect you to answer the door yourself.
 BARTLET I didn't expect you to be getting beat by John McCain and a Lancome rep who thinks ''The Flintstones'' was based on a true story, so let's call it even. 
 OBAMA Yes, sir.
 BARTLET Come on in.
 BARTLET leads OBAMA into his study.
 BARTLET That was a hell of a convention.
 OBAMA Thank you, I was proud of it.
 BARTLET I meant the Republicans. The Us versus Them-a-thon. As a Democrat I was surprised to learn that I don't like small towns, God, people with jobs or America. I've been a little out of touch but is there a mandate that the vice president be skilled at field dressing a moose -- 
 OBAMA Look -- 
 BARTLET -- and selling Air Force Two on eBay?
 OBAMA Joke all you want, Mr. President, but it worked.
 BARTLET Imagine my surprise. What can I do for you, kid?
 OBAMA I'm interested in your advice.
 BARTLET I can't give it to you. 
 OBAMA Why not?
 BARTLET I'm supporting McCain.
 OBAMA Why?
 BARTLET He's promised to eradicate evil and that was always on my ''to do'' list.
 OBAMA O.K. -- 
 BARTLET And he's surrounded himself, I think, with the best possible team to get us out of an economic crisis. Why, Sarah Palin just said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had ''gotten too big and too expensive to the taxpayers.'' Can you spot the error in that statement?
 OBAMA Yes, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac aren't funded by taxpayers. 
 BARTLET Well, at least they are now. Kind of reminds you of the time Bush said that Social Security wasn't a government program. He was only off by a little -- Social Security is the largest government program.
 OBAMA I appreciate your sense of humor, sir, but I really could use your advice.
 BARTLET Well, it seems to me your problem is a lot like the problem I had twice.
 OBAMA Which was?
 BARTLET A huge number of Americans thought I thought I was superior to them.
 OBAMA And?
 BARTLET I was.
 OBAMA I mean, how did you overcome that?
 BARTLET I won't lie to you, being fictional was a big advantage.
 OBAMA What do you mean?
 BARTLET I'm a fictional president. You're dreaming right now, Senator.
 OBAMA I'm asleep?
 BARTLET Yes, and you're losing a ton of white women.
 OBAMA Yes, sir.
 BARTLET I mean tons.
 OBAMA I understand.
 BARTLET I didn't even think there were that many white women.
 OBAMA I see the numbers, sir. What do they want from me?
 BARTLET I've been married to a white woman for 40 years and I still don't know what she wants from me.
 OBAMA How did you do it?
 BARTLET Well, I say I'm sorry a lot.
 OBAMA I don't mean your marriage, sir. I mean how did you get America on your side?
 BARTLET There again, I didn't have to be president of America, I just had to be president of the people who watched ''The West Wing.''
 OBAMA That would make it easier.
 BARTLET You'd do very well on NBC. Thursday nights in the old ''ER'' time slot with ''30 Rock'' as your lead-in, you'd get seven, seven-five in the demo with a 20, 22 share -- you'd be selling $450,000 minutes.
 OBAMA What the hell does that mean?
 BARTLET TV talk. I thought you'd be interested.
 OBAMA I'm not. They pivoted off the argument that I was inexperienced to the criticism that I'm -- wait for it -- the Messiah, who, by the way, was a community organizer. When I speak I try to lead with inspiration and aptitude. How is that a liability?
 BARTLET Because the idea of American exceptionalism doesn't extend to Americans being exceptional. If you excelled academically and are able to casually use 690 SAT words then you might as well have the press shoot video of you giving the finger to the Statue of Liberty while the Dixie Chicks sing the University of the Taliban fight song. The people who want English to be the official language of the United States are uncomfortable with their leaders being fluent in it.
 OBAMA You're saying race doesn't have anything to do with it?
 BARTLET I wouldn't go that far. Brains made me look arrogant but they make you look uppity. Plus, if you had a black daughter -- 
 OBAMA I have two.
 BARTLET -- who was 17 and pregnant and unmarried and the father was a teenager hoping to launch a rap career with ''Thug Life'' inked across his chest, you'd come in fifth behind Bob Barr, Ralph Nader and a ficus.
 OBAMA You're not cheering me up.
 BARTLET Is that what you came here for?
 OBAMA No, but it wouldn't kill you.
 BARTLET Have you tried doing a two-hour special or a really good Christmas show?
 OBAMA Sir -- 
 BARTLET Hang on. Home run. Right here. Is there any chance you could get Michelle pregnant before the fall sweeps?
 OBAMA The problem is we can't appear angry. Bush called us the angry left. Did you see anyone in Denver who was angry? 
 BARTLET Well ... let me think. ...We went to war against the wrong country, Osama bin Laden just celebrated his seventh anniversary of not being caught either dead or alive, my family's less safe than it was eight years ago, we've lost trillions of dollars, millions of jobs, thousands of lives and we lost an entire city due to bad weather. So, you know ... I'm a little angry.
 OBAMA What would you do?
 BARTLETGET ANGRIER! Call them liars, because that's what they are. Sarah Palin didn't say ''thanks but no thanks'' to the Bridge to Nowhere. She just said ''Thanks.'' You were raised by a single mother on food stamps -- where does a guy with eight houses who was legacied into Annapolis get off calling you an elitist? And by the way, if you do nothing else, take that word back. Elite is a good word, it means well above average. I'd ask them what their problem is with excellence. While you're at it, I want the word ''patriot'' back. McCain can say that the transcendent issue of our time is the spread of Islamic fanaticism or he can choose a running mate who doesn't know the Bush doctrine from the Monroe Doctrine, but he can't do both at the same time and call it patriotic. They have to lie -- the truth isn't their friend right now. Get angry. Mock them mercilessly; they've earned it. McCain decried agents of intolerance, then chose a running mate who had to ask if she was allowed to ban books from a public library. It's not bad enough she thinks the planet Earth was created in six days 6,000 years ago complete with a man, a woman and a talking snake, she wants schools to teach the rest of our kids to deny geology, anthropology, archaeology and common sense too? It's not bad enough she's forcing her own daughter into a loveless marriage to a teenage hood, she wants the rest of us to guide our daughters in that direction too? It's not enough that a woman shouldn't have the right to choose, it should be the law of the land that she has to carry and deliver her rapist's baby too? I don't know whether or not Governor Palin has the tenacity of a pit bull, but I know for sure she's got the qualifications of one. And you're worried about seeming angry? You could eat their lunch, make them cry and tell their mamas about it and God himself would call it restrained. There are times when you are simply required to be impolite. There are times when condescension is called for!
 OBAMA Good to get that off your chest?
 BARTLET Am I keeping you from something?
 OBAMA Well, it's not as if I didn't know all of that and it took you like 20 minutes to say.
 BARTLET I know, I have a problem, but admitting it is the first step.
 OBAMA What's the second step?
 BARTLET I don't care.
 OBAMA So what about hope? Chuck it for outrage and put-downs?
 BARTLET No. You're elite, you can do both. Four weeks ago you had the best week of your campaign, followed -- granted, inexplicably -- by the worst week of your campaign. And you're still in a statistical dead heat. You're a 47-year-old black man with a foreign-sounding name who went to Harvard and thinks devotion to your country and lapel pins aren't the same thing and you're in a statistical tie with a war hero and a Cinemax heroine. To these aged eyes, Senator, that's what progress looks like. You guys got four debates. Get out of my house and go back to work.
 OBAMA Wait, what is it you always used to say? When you hit a bump on the show and your people were down and frustrated? You'd give them a pep talk and then you'd always end it with something. What was it ...?
 BARTLET ''Break's over.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); LANCOME SA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



626 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Make It Airtight

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
WHEN a newspaper like The Times takes a tough, critical look at a candidate in this year's presidential election, it has to give readers enough solid evidence to make up their own minds about whether it is being accurate and fair. Consider two front-page articles last weekend: I think one delivered the goods and one fell short. 
 The first, in Saturday's paper, reported that John McCain had drawn ''an avalanche of criticism'' from Democrats, independents and even some Republicans ''for regularly stretching the truth'' about Barack Obama's record and positions.
 Without relying on others to make the charge, the article declared that the McCain campaign had ''twisted Mr. Obama's words'' to suggest he had compared Sarah Palin to a pig. It also stated that McCain himself had ''falsely claimed'' that Obama supported comprehensive sex education for kindergartners, had ''repeatedly and incorrectly asserted'' that Obama would raise taxes on the middle class, and had ''misrepresented'' Obama's positions on energy and health care. 
 This is strong stuff, and it offended some readers who thought the paper was taking sides. William Cunningham of St. Peters, Mo., asked, ''Doesn't this belong on the editorial page?'' Indeed, many newspapers have traditionally been more comfortable when they could simply quote candidates trading accusations about false statements, without making an independent judgment of the truth. Even reporters and editors committed to digging out the facts feel best when they can present the sins of each side in relatively evenhanded fashion.
 But the Times article was built on a solid foundation of fact, and Richard Stevenson, the editor directing coverage of the election, said, ''We don't want to fall into the trap of false equivalency.'' He said reporters had seen a pattern of ''demonstrable falsehoods, exaggerations, misconstruals or omissions'' on the part of McCain that seemed notable, even for a heated presidential campaign. While the article said that Obama's ''hands have not always been clean in this regard'' -- he ''incorrectly'' said that McCain supported a hundred-year war in Iraq, ''distorted'' his record on school financing and took economic comments ''out of context'' -- the brunt fell on McCain because of his large number of misrepresentations recently. Don Sipple, a Republican advertising strategist, was quoted as saying that in ''the last month, for sure,'' McCain had been taking more liberty with the truth than Obama.
 Jim Rutenberg, one of two reporters who wrote the article, said he felt comfortable describing McCain's false, incomplete or misleading statements in declarative fashion because The Times had independently reported the facts and given them to readers. The false charge that Obama supported comprehensive sex education for kids in kindergarten had been refuted two days earlier in a ''Check Point,'' the newspaper's vehicle for assessing the accuracy of campaign claims. A chart with the Saturday article compared McCain's charges on taxes, energy and health with the facts.
 The next morning, The Times took a look at Palin's political style as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, and as governor. The article was a largely negative portrayal of her as a remote, secretive executive who appoints schoolmates or other friends to state office, demands personal loyalty, pursues vendettas, fires officials who cross her and blurs the line ''between government and personal grievance.'' 
 It began with a sweeping assertion: ''Gov. Sarah Palin lives by the maxim that all politics is local, not to mention personal.'' Scott Blum of Atlanta said, ''To justify stating this conclusion so forcefully in a front-page news article, the body of evidence had better be so compelling that most reasonable people would agree.'' But Blum found the article ''largely one-sided'' and unconvincing.
 I think it presented a series of unflattering anecdotes, some confusing and incomplete, but never made the connection between style and results necessary to judge a politician who was overwhelmingly re-elected mayor and has an 80 percent approval rating as governor.
 Take Franci Havemeister, a high school classmate appointed director of agriculture by Palin. She was introduced in the second paragraph as a former real estate agent who ''cited her childhood love of cows as a qualification for running the roughly $2 million agency.'' That made her sound ridiculous and called Palin's judgment into question. But was that Havemeister's only qualification? Has she been a competent agriculture director? Readers were not told. Havemeister was not mentioned again, after being described as ''one of at least five'' schoolmates hired by Palin.
 Similarly, the article said, Palin appointed Talis Colberg, a local politician from her part of the state, to be attorney general, ''provoking a bewildered question from the legal community: Who?'' A family friend was quoted as asking him if he knew how to supervise people, and he replied, ''No, but I think I'll get some help.'' So how has he performed in office? The question was never addressed. Palin was challenging the establishment, perhaps a reason to appoint someone little known in legal circles. But if Colberg is doing a poor job, it would show that her style can mean bad results.
 The article was researched by three reporters, including Peter Goodman, who worked for the Anchorage Daily News for several years and covered Palin in Wasilla. He said the story was ''fair, deeply reported and solid to the point that the McCain-Palin campaign has not challenged a single fact.'' But had the article focused on fewer episodes, giving more facts to paint a fuller picture, it might have better served skeptical readers inclined to think The Times is biased. After several e-mail exchanges with the reporters, I think they had the answers to many of my questions, and some of the answers were in early drafts of a long story that was cut to fit in the paper.
 Bill Keller, the executive editor, Jill Abramson, the managing editor for news, and Matt Purdy, the investigations editor who handled the Palin article, defended it. Keller disagreed with my premise that the article should have gone into the results of Palin's style. He said, ''We had to fit it into a manageable space, and the focus for us and for the reporters was how she hires.'' The story demonstrated ''a style very personal, sometimes petty, peremptory, and a style that demands a high degree of loyalty,'' he said. ''That tells you something about somebody who might be president.''
 But it doesn't tell you the consequences of that style, which readers like Blum needed to be convinced. Interestingly, some of the information that was cut might have done that.
 The story of Franci Havemeister, for instance, turned out to be much more instructive than what appeared in the paper. Not only did she love cows as a child, she married into a farming family that depended on a state-owned dairy for its livelihood -- a dairy that was one of the responsibilities of her new office. Before her appointment, the board that oversaw the money-losing dairy recommended closing it. Palin fired the board and appointed a new one, including Havemeister, a childhood friend. Havemeister then applied to be agriculture director. Shortly after she took office, the dairy's losses accelerated -- $300,000 in July of last year alone -- and it was finally closed.
 Had I read this, I would have stopped laughing at Havemeister's childhood love of cows and started worrying about taxpayers' dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (88%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SEX EDUCATION (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



627 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Body Blow to Wall Street Will Test Resilience of New York's Economy

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
After the recession of 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that New York City's economy had diversified enough through the fostering of tourism, manufacturing and other businesses that the city had ''reduced our dependency on the fortunes and failures of Wall Street.''
 Now, with the financial sector in turmoil after the failure of two of its biggest investment banks, the forced sale of another and the loss of thousands of its best-paying jobs, the mayor and his city face a true test of that claim. When the current mess is over, many economists and analysts predict, Wall Street will emerge a smaller and less lucrative place than it was before. 
 By some measures, the city entered this crisis more reliant than ever on Wall Street, with its big profits and bonuses, raising difficult new questions about how quickly the city will recover. 
 Last year, financial sector workers collected more than a third -- 35.9 percent -- of all the income earned in the city, even though they held just one of every eight jobs in New York, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. That share is double the industry's portion of the city's wages and salaries from 30 years ago, and it has continued to grow even as the number of financial jobs in the city has declined, to about 470,000. 
 Last week, the state Labor Department projected that about 40,000 of those jobs would be eliminated in the next year -- in addition to the more than 10,000 that are already gone -- sharply reducing the amount of money being pumped into the local economy and the amount of taxes the city and state will collect. (City officials are more hopeful, predicting the job loss to be about half of the state projection.)
 ''For the Manhattan and New York City economy, it's like pulling a big plug out,'' said Rosemary Scanlon, an associate professor at the New York University Schack Institute for Real Estate. Speaking before a financial-industry rescue plan was announced on Friday by the federal government, she said it could take two or more years for the metropolitan area to recover from the various blows it has sustained in the last few weeks. 
 That would be a relative blink compared to what transpired after the stock market crash of 1929. For many years, the decimated securities business was relegated to a bit part on the city's economic stage, while factories, shipyards, a bustling port and ambitious public works projects put New Yorkers back to work.
 Today, the factories, sweatshops and shipyards are all but gone. Beyond Wall Street, the city's economy rests on a foundation of tourism, education, health care, media, legal services and construction.
 New York is far from being a company town, but can its other components grow enough to compensate for a slimmer Wall Street? Some historians and other close observers of the city's economy said they had their doubts, given the time and resources needed to build high-paying industries.
 ''It's a very safe statement to make that New York will remain dependent on financial services as the engine of its economy,'' said Aron A. Gottesman, an associate professor at the Lubin School of Business at Pace University. ''I'm not sure there is a way to fill in that gap. Eventually, this market will return. But this is definitely going to be a large gap.''
 Robert C. Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the city would not need to cope with a shrunken financial sector for long because it would bounce back faster and stronger than most analysts expect.
 Although pay on Wall Street will drop sharply for a while, he said, he does not foresee the loss of tens of thousands of jobs as a result of the current crisis. Mr. Lieber, who spent much of his career at Lehman Brothers, the investment bank that filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday, said that the city would ''maintain its dominant role in the global securities markets and the global capital markets.''
 He likened the current situation to a snake having trouble digesting some large, toxic prey. ''If you get the snake to clear the rat that it ate,'' he said, ''we should be O.K.''
 Once that happens, he said, the army of financiers that has lived and worked in the city during its boom years will set about creating the next set of financial products to sell and trade. 
 But Mr. Lieber said he also thought that given time, the city's economy will gradually reduce its reliance on Wall Street by building up its scientific and technical sectors through initiatives like the East River Science Park in Manhattan. He said it is also hoping to court more digital-media and information technology companies, like Google and Microsoft, which already have operations here.
 ''These aren't things that are going to provide immediate diversification today,'' as the tourism push has done, Mr. Lieber said. The steady increase in visitors, especially those from overseas lured by a weak dollar, has fueled fast growth in the leisure and hospitality businesses. Indeed, the trend in employment in that sector is almost a mirror image of what has happened in manufacturing. 
 Since 1998, the number of jobs that produce goods in the city has fallen to about 227,000, from about 303,000. During the same 10 years, the number of jobs in leisure and hospitality, encompassing waiters, bartenders, hotel clerks, actors and hot-dog vendors at Yankee Stadium, has risen to about 307,000 from about 232,000.
 But because those jobs pay less, it would take at least a few of them to replace the wages earned by each Wall Street worker. 
 Similarly, many jobs have been added in education, health care and social services, the fields that have been growing the most steadily in recent years. Combined, they employ almost 700,000 people in the five boroughs. But while some are highly paid surgeons and professors, many more are lower paid public-school teachers and home-health care aides. 
 Some experts say New York's financial industry will rebuild because there will always be a demand for capital to finance business ventures. What has changed in the last few weeks, Mr. Gottesman said, is that the era of independent investment banks has ended.
 From now on, the services identified with Wall Street -- trading stocks and bonds, packaging loans and reselling them, advising companies on mergers -- will be performed mostly by giant, universal banks like Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase. Some of them will be headquartered in New York, but some, like Bank of America, which is buying Merrill Lynch, will be in North Carolina. Still others, like Barclays, the British bank that is buying much of Lehman Brothers, will be based overseas.
 That could mean that some of the profits earned on Wall Street will not stay in New York, and many of the jobs may pay less than they have in recent years. 
 Steve Fraser, a historian who has written about Wall Street, said he believed a far more profound change was afoot. Mr. Fraser said the curtain has just been rung down on what he calls America's second ''gilded age,'' a period of historically wide divergence between the wealthy and the masses. 
 ''I think it's over,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''The kind of economy that supported a certain kind of gildedness is ending.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: City Finance Jobs: Over the past 30 years in New York City, the number of finance jobs as a proportion of all jobs has decreased. Over the same period, finance wages as a percentage of all wages in the city has more than doubled. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); DISMISSALS (70%); STATISTICS (67%); SHIPBUILDING (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008



628 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 21, 2008

 BODY:
International
 SEEING A TOURIST HAVEN
 In a Violence-Plagued Iraq
 Humoud Yakobi, the chairman of Iraq's Board of Tourism, left, envisions ''a six-star hotel,'' spas, a yacht club, an amusement park and luxury villas -- all near the fortified Green Zone in Baghdad. Premature? Absurd? Not for Mr. Yakobi, who says he has reason to believe that Iraq will once again be a major tourist destination. PAGE 8 
 ATTACK IN NIGERIA 'OIL WAR'
 A group calling itself the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta claimed to have hit another oil pipeline in Nigeria. It is the latest in a series of attacks on the country's largest oil producer, Royal Dutch Shell. The militant group has vowed that it will continue its ''oil war.'' Shell said it was investigating the most recent claim of an attack, but could not confirm it. PAGE 14 
 URGING PEACE IN PAKISTAN
 In his first speech to Parliament, Asif Ali Zardari, Pakistan's new president, said his government would offer peace to anyone willing to renounce violence, but added that he would use force if necessary against those who challenged the government. Later in the day, at least 40 people were killed in a truck bombing at the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad. PAGE 12 
 National
 COULD HIGH BLACK TURNOUT
 Help a Gay Marriage Ban?
 Opponents of a California ballot initiative that would amend the state Constitution to ban same-sex marriage are worried that black voters, who are traditionally conservative on gay issues, could pour into voting stations in record numbers to punch the Barack Obama ticket -- and then cast a vote in favor of the measure. PAGE 18 
 PLANNING A TRANSITION
 Neither Barack Obama nor John McCain wants to appear as if he is counting unhatched chickens, but both are quietly planning what to do in the hectic 77-day period from the presidential election to Inauguration Day, so that they will be ready to take up the reins of government. PAGE 25 
 AN ENGINEER'S LIFE
 Conflicting portraits have emerged regarding the life of Robert M. Sanchez, the engineer in the commuter train in Los Angeles that crashed, killing him and 24 others. Was he a recluse or the warm and conscientious mentor to young railroad aficionados? PAGE 23 
 Obituaries
 HYMAN GOLDEN, 85
 He was a co-founder of the Snapple Beverage Corporation and served as its chairman as Snapple's flavored teas and juices became a national phenomenon. PAGE 31
 New York Report
 WATCHING ECONOMIC CRISIS
 With Sense of Unease
 Mitchell Frank, 94, and Herbert Marks, 98, both of North Hills, N.Y, remember the Great Depression as if it just happened. Both are watching the current financial crisis and believe that the country has become unmoored from a sense of shared purpose. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE 32 
 TRAVEL LIKE THE JETSONS
 Ithaca, N.Y., is an idyllic town, but the bumper-to-bumper traffic there can be a major headache. And so, the city is mulling over a novel form of rapid transit: pod cars -- energy efficient, computer-driven electric vehicles that run on a monorail-like loop and hold an average of four people. PAGE 33 
 Sports
 SOMEONE ELSE WILL HAVE TO TURN OUT THE LIGHTS
 Dave Anderson was the last sportswriter to leave Ebbets Field in Brooklyn after the last Dodgers game there. Will he be the last out of the House That Ruth Built? Probably not, he says, as this stadium farewell is just not the same. ''The Yankees are just going across the street,'' he writes. PAGE 5 
 A STADIUM OVERLOOKED?
 If the city's landmark commission was willing to make the old Milk-Bone dog treat factory on the Lower East Side a landmark, why doesn't Yankee Stadium make the cut? Because renovations to the structure stripped it of all its historic features. PAGE 5 
 ARTS & LEISURE
 THOSE FUZZY ACTORS
 Go Back to Work
 The Walt Disney Company is revving up its engines to promote the Muppets, developing specials in which Miss Piggy, Kermit and the crew interact with the Jonas Brothers, as well as a feature film for release in 2010. PAGE 1 
 ROCK STAR TO MARIACHI
 Linda Ronstadt, decreed ''Rock's Venus'' decades ago by Rolling Stone, will perform in the 17th Annual International Mariachi and Latin Music Festival as a tribute to three mariachi divas. PAGE 1 
 Revisiting 'Rent' 6 
 BOOK REVIEW
 THE STUDENT
 Of Desire
 Philip Roth, 75, has been burning up the track for well over a decade now. With ''Indignation,'' set during the Korean War in a small, conservative Ohio college, his power is undiminished, David Gates writes. PAGE 1 
 FRANCE'S LEFT
 In ''Left in Dark Times,'' Bernard-Henri Levy feels bound to vindicate the French left and to say that it requires a makeover. Navigating these shoals, he produces a highly absorbing text, Christopher Hitchens writes. PAGE 10 
 Defining Glamour 9 
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 IS CITIGROUP
 Above the Fray?
 As some banks struggle to survive, Citigroup has found itself named as a potential suitor. But while a huge government bailout plan raises its prospects, the huge bank still isn't out of the woods. PAGE 1 
 FLIRTING WITH DISASTER
 Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive of Lehman Brothers, and John A. Thain, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch, made different strategic decisions that shaped radically diverse outcomes for their employees and shareholders. PAGE 1 
 Gretchen Morgenson: Fixing Others' Mistakes 1 
 THE MAGAZINE
 THE TELL-ALL
 Campus Tour
 Unigo.com, a free, gigantic, student-generated guide to North American colleges for prospective applicants and their families, went live for the benefit of tens of thousands of trepidatious high school students trying to figure out where and how to go to college. PAGE 58
 THOSE WHO WRITE, TEACH
 Lured by health insurance, salary, security and summer vacation, David Gessner, once a full-time writer, became a creative-writing professor. Though he sometimes chafes at his collar, he often appreciates the job. But can an artist survive success in academia? PAGE 64
 T: Travel
 COSMOPOLITANISM IN HONG KONG
 Some said China would be the death of Hong Kong. But more than a decade later, the island metropolis is, as Pankaj Mishra discovers, more brazen and relevant than ever. PAGE 112 
 PUSHING FASHION'S BORDERS
 El Paso may not be a fashion hotbed. But Dolce & Gabbana and Ralph Lauren rely on one local man, Pedro Munoz, to give their collections a kick. Why the Texas bootmaker is on the fashion world's speed dial. PAGE 38 
 The Dubliners 128 
 STYLES
 CAST IN 'SURVIVOR,'
 Wall Street Edition
 The most recent generation of strivers on Wall Street arrived in a New York boomtown. But now, thousands of layoffs loom as the industry shrinks and consolidates. ''The party's over,'' said Delilah Rothenberg, 25. PAGE 1 
 THEY MEET AGAIN
 Dominick Dunne, 82, traveled to Las Vegas against doctor's orders and his family's wishes to sit again in a courtroom, where a different set of lawyers grill a different set of troubling witnesses, but where the same defendant, O. J. Simpson, awaits his fate. PAGE 1 
 An Unlikely Cover Girl 2 
 TRAVEL
 A CULINARY PILGRIMAGE
 To the Table of Taipei
 The Old Wang Beef Noodle Soup King is popular, bug light-years from trendy, surprisingly accessible and instantly enjoyable. In other words, it is the perfect metaphor for Taipei, where it is located, Matt Gross writes. PAGE 1 
 LIVING IN BALI'S SHADOW
 Lombok Island, 25 miles from Bali, seems to be perpetually arriving, yet has never quite arrived. It has lovely beaches, a looming volcano and, for now, an endearing frumpiness that may be its ultimate charm. PAGE 7 
 WHERE THE GODS ARE
 Few things in India express the integration of Hindu belief into daily life better than theancient temple complexes of Tamil Nadu. PAGE 3 
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 THE LEGACY
 Of David Foster Wallace
 The temptation to regard David Foster Wallace's suicide as anything other than a private tragedy must be resisted. But the strength of the temptation should nonetheless be acknowledged. He was hardly one to conceal himself within his work. On the contrary, so much of his personality is stamped on every page that the life and the work can seem not just connected but continuous, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE 1 
 TV'S ONE-SHOW FLOPS
 In television, there are hits, there are misses and then there are those most spectacular of flops: shows that are axed from the schedule after a single episode. These one-and-done wonders are a window into the fleeting nature of television. Page 2 AUTOMOBILES
 FORD'S FAMILY HAULER:
 Is It Hip to Be Square?
 The Flex, the newest member of Ford's family of crossovers, makes a statement with clever trim details and is not just practical but has its own unrepentant style. If only Ford officials had been this bold long ago. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 CANDIDATES AND THE COURT
 Among the issues voters need to consider is this: The next president is likely to appoint several Supreme Court justices.
 Week in Review, Page 8
 'NEVER AGAIN,' AGAIN
 Hurricane Gustav gave Louisiana a test for which it had three years to prepare. The state flunked.
 Week in Review, Page 8
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 By enveloping the country in a thick fog of truthiness, McCain-Palin is selling itself the way the White House sold the war.
 Week in Review, Page 9
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The campaign to ''otherize'' Barack Obama by painting him as a Muslim is succeeding in sowing doubt among voters. The real loser when that happens is our political process.
 Week in Review, Page 9
 ART OF DARKNESS
 Jonathan Lethem, the author of ''The Fortress of Solitude,'' contemplates the popularity of ''The Dark Knight'' in this season of economic turmoil and continuing war, of negative campaigning and cable noise.
 Week in Review, Page 10

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TEA (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (72%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%); REFERENDUMS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); TRAINS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); MARRIAGE (65%); BALLOTS (64%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (62%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (52%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); DPS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (51%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NIGER (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



629 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1971 words

HEADLINE: ADMINISTRATION IS SEEKING $700 BILLION FOR WALL ST.; BAILOUT COULD SET RECORD

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington, and Michael Barbaro and Eric Dash from New York.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Peter Baker, Stephen Labaton and Eric Lipton and written by Mr. Baker.
WASHINGTON -- For the last year, as the nation's economy lurched from crisis to crisis, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, had been warning Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, that the worsening situation might ultimately force a sweeping federal intervention.
A longtime student of the Great Depression, Mr. Bernanke was acutely aware of what could happen without a decisive move. Finally, the moment that called for action arrived late Wednesday. Less than 24 hours after the Fed bailed out American International Group, the giant insurer, it was clear the turmoil gripping Wall Street was only growing worse and that ad hoc solutions were not working.
Talking into a speaker phone from his ornate office, Mr. Bernanke told Mr. Paulson that it was time to adopt a comprehensive strategy that Congress would have to approve. Mr. Paulson understood. Reluctant in recent days to send Congress a plan that lawmakers had warned had little chance of quick passage, he had worried that a rejection would only further shock the markets. But during two conference calls Wednesday night and Thursday morning, he agreed that they had no choice. 
''It just happened dramatically,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview on Friday. ''There was only one way that we could reassure the markets and deal with a very significant and broad-based freezing of the credit market. There was no political calculus. It was overwhelmingly obvious.''
Just like that, Mr. Bernanke, the reserved former Ivy League professor, and Mr. Paulson, the hard-charging former Wall Street deal maker, launched what would be the government's largest economic rescue operation in modern times, one that rivals the Iraq war in cost and at the same time may redefine Washington's role in the marketplace for years.
The plan to buy $700 billion in troubled assets with taxpayer money was shaped by two men who did not know each other until two years ago and did not travel in the same circles, but now find themselves brought together by history. If Mr. Bernanke is the intellectual force and Mr. Paulson the action man of this unlikely tandem, they have managed to create a nearly seamless partnership as they rush to stop the financial upheaval and keep the economy afloat.
Befitting their roles and personalities, Mr. Paulson has become the public face of their team -- he plans to appear on four Sunday talk shows -- while the less visible Mr. Bernanke provides the historical underpinnings for their strategy.
Along the way, they have cast aside the administration's long-held views about regulation and government involvement in private business, even reversing decisions over the space of 24 hours and justifying them as practical solutions to dire threats.
''There are no atheists in foxholes and no ideologues in financial crises,'' Mr. Bernanke told colleagues last week, according to one meeting participant.
The improvisational nature of their effort has turned President Bush and Congressional Democrats into virtual bystanders, sometimes uncertain about what comes next and left to wonder about the new power dynamics in the capital. Seemingly every time lawmakers tried to get a handle on what was happening and what role they might play with elections around the corner, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke would show up again on Capitol Hill for another evening meeting with another surprise development.
The two men have been working early and working late, tracking Asian markets and fielding calls from their European counterparts, then reconnecting with each other by phone eight or nine times a day, talking so often that they speak in shorthand. Mr. Paulson has powered through the long days with a steady infusion of Diet Coke. Asked twice to testify by the Senate last week, he begged off.
''He told me he had like four hours of sleep,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Banking Committee. But there were limits to Mr. Dodd's sympathy. ''The public wants to know what's going on,'' he said he replied.
Mr. Bernanke (his drink: Diet Dr Pepper) has made a point of leaving the office by midnight to get at least some rest, but friends say the toll on him is clear as well. Alan S. Blinder, a longtime friend and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, recalled seeing Mr. Bernanke at a conference last month in Jackson Hole, Wyo. ''He looked like he had the weight of the world on his shoulders,'' Mr. Blinder said.
And that was before last week.
Mr. Bernanke took office in February 2006 and Mr. Paulson five months later, both Republicans and Bush appointees, yet arriving from starkly different places. Mr. Bernanke, 54, had managed the academic politics of the Princeton economics department, where he served as chairman, by developing a conciliator's style. Mr. Paulson, 62, rose to the top of Goldman Sachs by pounding the phones, and the occasional table.
''Hank is just the most hyperactive, get-it-done kind of guy who's always trying to get the problem solved and move on. He's impatient to fix things,'' said Allan B. Hubbard, a former national economic adviser to Mr. Bush. ''Ben is much more low-key. He's very thoughtful. He's an incredible thinker, listens well, analyzes well and is not intimidated by anyone. It's probably a great pair.''
While Mr. Bernanke talks in lofty terms and Mr. Paulson speaks in great bursts of Wall Street jock language, the new Washington odd couple bonded in part over baseball. The Treasury secretary is a Chicago Cubs fan and the Fed chairman is a Boston Red Sox fan who has adopted the Washington Nationals and shares season tickets with the White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten.
But neither Mr. Paulson nor Mr. Bernanke has been deeply involved in the political process before. As they try to navigate Washington together, they have surrounded themselves respectively with advisers drawn from Goldman and career professionals at the Fed.
Mr. Paulson initially declined to join the cabinet. He changed his mind only after extensive lobbying by Mr. Bolten, a former Goldman executive, and commitments by Mr. Bush to let him truly run economic policy, unlike his predecessors. The Hammer, as Mr. Paulson has been called since his days on the Dartmouth football squad, brought to Washington his characteristic intensity.
''He is a hurricane. He is used to living in a turbulent world,'' said John H. Bryan Jr., a close friend and former chief executive of the Sara Lee Corporation. ''He has lived in a world of deadlines, decisions and pressure-packed things.''
Mr. Paulson, a Christian Scientist, does not drink or smoke. Once, at a cocktail party where he was giving a speech, recalled Andrew M. Alper, a former Goldman colleague, Mr. Paulson accidentally took a gulp from a glass of vodka, thinking it was water. His face turned bright red and his eyes were watering for an hour. ''He just kept going,'' Mr. Alper said. ''It did not slow him down.''
Mr. Bernanke has a more obscure nickname, Helicopter Ben, after a speech he gave in 2002 in which he talked about the Fed's ''helicopter drops'' of emergency money to keep the system liquid. For Mr. Bernanke, the current crisis is the culmination of a lifetime of figuring how the system works from a theoretical viewpoint.
Mr. Bernanke made clear long ago that he realized he might someday be called on to act on his studies. Vincent R. Reinhart, a former Fed official, said Mr. Bernanke's research into Japan's financial crisis in the 1990s reinforced his view that the government had to be aggressive in intervening during market crises.
And at a party he had in 2002 to honor the 90th birthday of Milton Friedman, the famed economist, Mr. Bernanke, then a governor of the Federal Reserve, brought up the mistakes the nation made in the face of the Depression and promised not to repeat them. ''We did it,'' he said then. ''We won't do it again.''
Mr. Paulson, in the interview Friday, said that Mr. Bernanke had long warned that a moment might come like the one they saw last week.
''Going back a long time, maybe a year ago, Ben, as a world-class economist, said to me, 'When you look at the housing bubble and the correction, if the price decline was significant enough,' '' the only solution might be a large-scale government intervention, Mr. Paulson said. ''He talked about what had happened when there had been other situations historically.''
Mr. Paulson said he agreed but hoped it would not come to that. ''I knew he was right theoretically,'' he said. ''But I also had, and we both did, some hope that, with all the liquidity out there from investors, that after a certain decline that we would reach a bottom.''
He was also hearing as late as last Monday from senior Democratic and Republican lawmakers, including Steny H. Hoyer, the House majority leader, and Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, that there was no chance Congress would adopt any legislation before it planned to leave town in September. Even Representative Barney Frank, a proponent of a greater role for the government in the market, said on Monday that the issue would have to be resolved by the next president and the new Congress next year.
By Tuesday, however, the troubles were only deepening. Lehman Brothers had declared bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch had agreed to be bought by Bank of America and A.I.G. was on the verge of collapse. Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke put together an $85 billion bailout of A.I.G. and presented it to Mr. Bush.
But the two warned the president that it might not be enough to stabilize the broader crisis. A senior administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, paraphrased their message to Mr. Bush this way: ''There may still be problems after this, and if there are, we'll come back to you.''
They did, two days later, after plunging stock prices and frozen credit markets made clear the case-by-case strategy was not working. Mr. Paulson had been talking with Mr. Bush by telephone throughout Wednesday and early Thursday. The decision to finally take a radical, systemwide step came after an endless stream of conference calls involving Fed, Treasury and Securities and Exchange Commission officials, one participant recalled, when Mr. Bernanke said: ''We have got to go to Congress.'' Mr. Paulson concurred.
On Thursday afternoon, the two men, along with Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, went to the White House to explain their plan. ''The president said, 'Let's do it,' '' an official said. ''There was no hesitation.''
Within hours, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke were in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, briefing Congressional leaders on how bleak the situation was. Lawmakers were shaken but offered tentative support. Torn by conflicting imperatives to take action and to go home to campaign, they seemed alternately grateful and resentful of the new power couple in Washington. Some referred to ''President Paulson'' and others groused about an unelected central bank chairman doling out hundreds of billions of dollars.
Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke came under fire for being too aggressive and for not being aggressive enough. Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, said they were killing the free market. R. Glenn Hubbard, former chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said they should have acted sooner.
''The opportunity to have taken bold action would obviously have been better had they done it months ago,'' he said. ''But better late than never.''
In the end, what left so many lawmakers and economists frustrated was the sense that no one had a better idea. So they waited for Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke to give them more details about what they wanted to do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Ben S. Bernanke in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) GRAPHIC: HENRY M. PAULSON ON THE ECONOMY: The Treasury secretary's evolving public statements. A video of Mr. Paulson's positions is available at nytimes.com. (pg.A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%); BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



630 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Land of Gandhi Asserts Itself as Global Military Power

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
The Mumbai, an Indian warship, was slicing through choppy monsoon seas one recent morning when a helicopter swooped in overhead. Commandos slithered down a rope, seizing control of the destroyer. 
 It was a drill, Indian soldiers taking over an Indian ship. But the purpose was to train them to seize other countries' ships in distant oceans, a sign of a new military assertiveness for the world's second-most-populous nation. 
 India, which gave the world the idea of Gandhian nonviolence, has long derided the force-projecting ways of the great powers. It focused its own military on self-defense against two neighbors, Pakistan and China. 
 But in recent years, while world attention has focused on China's military, India has begun to refashion itself as an armed power with global reach: a power willing and able to dispatch troops thousands of miles from the subcontinent to protect its oil shipments and trade routes, to defend its large expatriate population in the Middle East and to shoulder international peacekeeping duties. 
 ''India sees itself in a different light -- not looking so much inward and looking at Pakistan, but globally,'' said William S. Cohen, a secretary of defense in the Clinton administration who in his new role as a lobbyist represents American firms seeking weapons contracts in India. ''It's sending a signal that it's going to be a big player.'' 
 India is buying armaments that major powers like the United States use to operate far from home: aircraft carriers, giant C-130J transport planes and airborne refueling tankers. Meanwhile, India has helped to build a small air base in Tajikistan that it will share with its host country. It is modern India's first military outpost on foreign soil. 
 India also appears to be positioning itself as a caretaker and patroller of the Indian Ocean region, which stretches from Africa's coast to Australia's and from the subcontinent southward to Antarctica. 
 ''Ten years from now, India could be a real provider of security to all the ocean islands in the Indian Ocean,'' said Ashley J. Tellis, an Indian-born scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington who has also been an adviser to the Bush administration. ''It could become a provider of security in the Persian Gulf in collaboration with the U.S. I would think of the same being true with the Central Asian states.'' 
 ''India,'' he added, ''is slowly maturing into a conventional great power.'' 
 Middle-aged Indians remember a time when their country would watch thousands of Indians in jeopardy in a foreign land and know that there was nothing their military could do. 
 But in 2006, when conflict between Israel and Hezbollah threatened Indian expatriates in Lebanon, four Indian warships happened to be in the Mediterranean. The navy rushed the vessels to Lebanon and brought more than 2,000 people on board, not only Indians, but Sri Lankans, Nepalese and Lebanese eager to escape the fighting.
 Two years earlier, when a tsunami throttled Asia, including this country's own southern coast, the Indian Navy dispatched 16,000 troops, 32 warships, 41 planes and a floating hospital for rescue operations, according to news accounts. 
 Such changes bring pride to many Indians. But some also fear that India may become the kind of swaggering power it has opposed since it became independent from Britain in 1947.
 ''Immediately after independence, true, we had to engage ourselves for developing our country -- economically, politically -- because we were exploited under colonial rule for more than 200 years,'' Pranab Mukherjee, India's foreign minister, said in an interview.
 Now, he said, things have changed: ''Naturally, a country of this size, a population of this size -- we will be required to strengthen our security forces, modernize them, update them, upgrade our technology.'' 
 ''We are ready to play a more responsible role,'' he added, ''but we don't want to impose ourselves on others.''
 Indian military planning is still heavily focused on China and Pakistan, against both of which the country has fought wars. China, whose own military expansion outstrips India's, has not sounded public warnings about India's military modernization. But Pakistan is more critical. 
 Pakistani officials ''are paying attention to Indian plans to project India outside the South Asian region,'' said Hasan Askari Rizvi, a leading Pakistani expert on that country's military. 
 India's buildup has several overlapping motivations. It now trades vigorously with the world, most critically in oil. It has bought oil fields or engaged in exploration in Iran, Iraq, Libya, Russia, Sudan, Syria, Vietnam and beyond. Not coincidentally, it has demonstrated a new interest in keeping the sea lanes through which that oil and other wares sail free of pirates and militants. 
 A more robust military is also vital for protecting millions of Indian workers in the Persian Gulf, who are from time to time threatened by political volatility. But the most pressing motivation may be the fast-moving Chinese. 
 China has sought to develop a powerful air force and navy that can extend far beyond its shores. It has been increasing its military budget rapidly and plans to spend $60 billion on its armed forces in 2008, according to the government budget. The Pentagon estimates that China's actual military spending is much higher, perhaps twice the officially budgeted amount, as much as seven times India's defense outlay.
 Beijing has alarmed Indian commanders by courting allies in India's neighborhood. Indians are particularly upset by what they say are Chinese-built military bases in Gwadar, Pakistan; Chittagong, Bangladesh; and Yangon, Myanmar. 
 ''There seems to be an emerging long-term competition between India and China for pre-eminence in the region,'' said Jacqueline Newmyer, president of the Long Term Strategy Group, a research institute in Cambridge, Mass., and a security consultant to the United States government. ''India is preparing slowly to claim its place as a pre-eminent power, and in the meantime China is working to complicate that for India.'' 
 India has worked to close the gap with China by spending heavily on modern arms. Analysts estimate that India could spend as much as $40 billion on military modernization in the next five years. What is most striking is how many of the weapons are designed for operations far from home. 
 Among the more notable purchases are six IL-78 airborne tankers, which can refuel three jets simultaneously and allow the air force to fly as far as Alaska. 
 Other armaments recently acquired or in the pipeline include naval destroyers, nuclear submarines, aircraft carriers and the C-130J transport planes that are a staple of long-range conflicts. 
 ''You don't need C-130s for Pakistan,'' said Mr. Tellis, the Bush administration adviser. 
 A telling sign of India's plans lies in Tajikistan, a nation between Afghanistan and China in Central Asia. Not far from Dushanbe, the capital, India has worked with Tajik authorities to build an air base and has stationed helicopters there. 
 Ms. Newmyer, of Long Term Strategy Group, called the arrangement ''a big deal,'' not least because of the change of mindset it reflects. ''Having overseas bases is a marker of an imperial kind of capability,'' she said. ''India is thought of as a power that was colonized, not a power that puts its own boots on the ground in permanent bases in other countries.'' 
 In a speech in India's Parliament this summer, a rising political star spoke of a change in civilian thinking that helps explain the change in military strategy. 
 ''What is important,'' said Rahul Gandhi, the heir to the family dynasty that controls the governing Congress Party, ''is that we stop worrying about how the world will impact us, we stop being scared about how the world will impact us, and we step out and worry about how we will impact the world.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Beirut, Lebanon, in July 2006, during Israeli attacks on the strongholds of Hezbollah militants, Indian citizens and others waited to board an Indian Navy warship to escape the fighting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN CURTIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); OCEANS (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LOBBYING (75%); MARINE TANKERS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); HEZBOLLAH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ANTARCTICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



631 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Consulate for Ecuadoreans Reaches Where They Live

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
People walked by all morning on Sunday: a couple with their grandson, a day laborer, roommates, a clerk from an appliance store nearby. They were all immigrants, all from Ecuador and invariably, they all posed the same question to the woman cleaning the entrance to a new stucco house at the corner of Roosevelt Avenue and 67th Street in Woodside, Queens: ''Cuando abre el consulado?'' When will the consulate open?
 Consulates are in essence a piece of foreign territory abroad, and in New York, they are all in Manhattan, where there is a kind of multinational enclave near the United Nations. The Ecuadorean Consulate, for example, is in the same building as the Israeli Consulate, which imposes the same security restrictions upon every visitor, no matter where they are going -- or where they are from. 
 But that will change on Monday as Ecuador extends its reach outside Manhattan, inaugurating a consular outpost in the borough where most of its citizens live. The office, in a stucco building whose walls still smelled of fresh paint on Sunday, sits across from El Huarache Restaurant, which sells burgers and the beef fillets known in South America as bistecs, and it is not far from the corner where Ecuadorean day laborers gather every morning in search of work.
 ''We wanted to be where our people are,'' Ecuador's consul, Maria Eugenia Aviles, said in an interview. ''We wanted to have a place that would be just ours, where there would be no guards checking IDs and where you wouldn't have to wait for an elevator to take you to the front door.'' 
 The consulate is the color of cement and has thick floor-to-ceiling windows that do little to muffle the rumble of the No. 7 train as it rolls along the elevated tracks. The walls were still bare on Sunday, but Ms. Aviles brought along two acrylic paintings and a purple orchid that she put on her desk on the second floor. Downstairs were 10 boxes of Champagne Cola, an Ecuadorean soda that tastes like bubble gum. 
 The cola was there for Monday's celebration marking the opening of the office, which will officially open for business in the first week of October, after a referendum on Ecuador's new Constitution on Sept. 28. (Ecuadoreans in New York can cast their ballots at William Cullen Bryant High School in Long Island City, Queens, from 7 a.m. until 5 p.m.) Another consular office opens on Monday in New Haven to accommodate the Ecuadoreans in Connecticut, which Ms. Aviles described as ''a new frontier'' for immigrants from her country.
 Both offices will offer services like issuing passports and Ecuador's official identity cards, registering births and weddings, and providing authorizations for children traveling on their own. And the office in Queens will have a somewhat unusual schedule: It will be open Saturday through Wednesday. 
 ''Now we don't have to lose a day's work to go to the consulate,'' said Manuel Ortega, a painter from Cuenca, in the Ecuadorean highlands, who lives in Jackson Heights, Queens. 
 His roommate and compatriot, Javier Calderon, added: ''And we don't have to waste time to go all the way to Manhattan.''
 For Ecuadoreans, Queens has been a magnet for decades, and there are more of them in the borough -- about 102,000 -- than immigrants from any other Latin American country, according to 2006 census estimates. With a population of about 162,900 citywide, Ecuadoreans are New York's fourth largest Hispanic contingent, behind Puerto Ricans (770,100), Dominicans (587,330) and Mexicans (260,620), according to the census.
 Nelly Bravo, who manages a store, Creditos Economicos, a block from the new consular office in Woodside, said that Roosevelt Avenue is better known among Ecuadoreans than Broadway in Manhattan because so many of those who have moved to New York settle in Queens.
 Ms. Bravo's business, which sells appliances for delivery to Ecuador, opened at Roosevelt Avenue and 65th Street more than 10 years ago, she said, and she has witnessed the continued growth of the community, even now ''with all the restrictions of immigration,'' she said.
 Marcelo Arboleda, the owner of Ecuador News, a weekly newspaper based in Jackson Heights, said that having a consular branch in Queens will primarily help immigrants who come from Ecuador's countryside. He said he has heard stories of men who felt so intimidated when they arrived at Grand Central Terminal, on the way to the consulate, on Second Avenue near 42nd Street, that they turned around and took the subway back to Queens, without, say, renewing their passports.
 ''This is a huge milestone for the community,'' Mr. Arboleda said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ecuador's consulate branch on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens is the first in New York to be located outside Manhattan.
 Census figures show about 102,000 Ecuadorean immigrants, more than from any other Latin American country, live in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: The consulate will be open from Saturday to Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); IMMIGRATION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); PAINTING (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); REFERENDUMS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%) ECUADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); SOUTH AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



632 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: A Fine Mess

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
A friend serving in the Bush administration called Sunday to try to talk me out of my doubts about the $700 billion financial bailout the administration was asking Congress to approve. I picked up the phone, and made the mistake of good-naturedly remarking, in my best imitation of Oliver Hardy, ''Well, this is a fine mess you've gotten us into.'' 
 People who've been working 18-hour days trying to avert a meltdown are entitled to bristle at jocular comments from those of us not in public office. So he bristled. He then tried to persuade me that the only responsible course of action was to support the administration's request. 
 I'm not convinced.
 It's not that I don't believe the situation is dire. It's not that I want to insist on some sort of ideological purity or free-market fastidiousness. I will stipulate that this is an emergency, and is a time for pragmatic problem-solving, perhaps even for violating some cherished economic or political principles. (What are cherished principles for but to be violated in emergencies?)
 And I acknowledge that there are serious people who think the situation too urgent and the day too late to allow for a real public and Congressional debate on what should be done. But -- based on conversations with economists, Wall Street types, businessmen and public officials -- I'm doubtful that the only thing standing between us and a financial panic is for Congress to sign this week, on behalf of the American taxpayer, a $700 billion check over to the Treasury. 
 A huge speculative housing bubble has collapsed. We're going to have a recession. Unemployment will go up. Credit is going to be tighter. The challenge is to contain the damage to a ''normal'' recession -- and to prevent a devastating series of bank runs, a collapse of the credit markets and a full-bore depression.
 Everyone seems to agree on the need for a big and comprehensive plan, and that the markets have to have some confidence that help is on the way. Funds need to be supplied, trading markets need to be stabilized, solvent institutions needs to be protected, and insolvent institutions need to be put on the path to a deliberate liquidation or reorganization.
 But is the administration's proposal the right way to do this? It would enable the Treasury, without Congressionally approved guidelines as to pricing or procedure, to purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of financial assets, and hire private firms to manage and sell them, presumably at their discretion There are no provisions for -- or even promises of -- disclosure, accountability or transparency. Surely Congress can at least ask some hard questions about such an open-ended commitment. 
 And I've been shocked by the number of (mostly conservative) experts I've spoken with who aren't at all confident that the Bush administration has even the basics right -- or who think that the plan, though it looks simple on paper, will prove to be a nightmare in practice. 
 But will political leaders dare oppose it? Barack Obama called Sunday for more accountability, and I imagine he'll support the efforts of the Democratic Congressional leadership to try to add to the legislation a host of liberal spending provisions. He probably won't want to run the risk of actually opposing it, or even of raising big questions and causing significant delay -- lest he be attacked for risking the possible meltdown of the global financial system.
 What about John McCain? He could play it safe, going along with whatever the Bush administration and the Congress are able to negotiate.
 If he wants to be critical, but concludes that Congress has to pass something quickly lest the markets fall apart again, and that he can't reasonably insist that Congress come up with something fundamentally better, he could propose various amendments insisting on much more accountability and transparency in how Treasury handles this amazing grant of power.
 Comments by McCain on Sunday suggest he might propose an amendment along the lines of one I received in an e-mail message from a fellow semi-populist conservative: ''Any institution selling securities under this legislation to the Treasury Department shall not be allowed to compensate any officer or employee with a higher salary next year than that paid the president of the United States.'' This would punish overpaid Wall Streeters and, more important, limit participation in the bailout to institutions really in trouble. 
 Or McCain -- more of a gambler than Obama -- could take a big risk. While assuring the public and the financial markets that his administration will act forcefully and swiftly to deal with the crisis, he could decide that he must oppose the bailout as the panicked product of a discredited administration, an irresponsible Congress, and a feckless financial establishment, all of which got us into this fine mess. 
 Critics would charge that in opposing the bailout, in standing against an apparent bipartisan consensus, McCain was being irresponsible.
 Or would this be an act of responsibility and courage? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (64%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



633 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words

 BODY:
PREPARING TO TRADE Frazzled traders and money managers spent an angst-filled weekend struggling to fathom the vast bailout that the Bush administration proposed for financial institutions in the United States -- and what it will mean for the world's markets. 
 After intense lobbying from bankers around the world, the United States subsidiaries of most foreign banks holding toxic American mortgage debt now expect to be eligible for the bailout, a shift that is likely to draw fire from American lawmakers. [C1.]
 Turmoil in the financial markets weighed on the share price of General Electric, the industrial conglomerate, last week, as a result of its stature as the largest nonbank finance company in the nation. [C1.]
 Three economists offer their thoughts about the Bush administration's proposal to take bad mortgage-related debt off the books of banks and financial institutions and stabilize the financial markets. [C3.] 
 When the financial markets were mired in uncertainty last week, several financial companies turned to their advertising agencies to create ads that would play up their reliability. Advertising. [C6.]
 For most of the country, the financial crises of the last few weeks have offered an education in economics. For journalists, they have been a lesson in semantics. [C8.]
 In the same week that the government proposed a $700 billion bailout for Wall Street firms failing because of overextended homeowners, the Treasury Department began a campaign to educate young adults about the importance of personal finance. [C8.]
 A PERSONAL TOUCH Union Square Ventures is a venture capital firm that differs from the norm by taking smaller stakes and a hands-on approach in its investments. [C9.]
 EXPANDING POLITICAL NEWS Politico, which has grown fast from a little-known start-up to one of the nation's most popular online sources of political news, plans to expand after the Nov. 4 election. [C8.]
 BRATZ DOLLS BANISHED At the urging of a group that opposes commercials intended for children, Scholastic, the children's publisher, will no longer include books or spinoff products about the Bratz dolls in its product offerings. [C8.]
 A WORD UNBANISHED After being sued by a Christian anti-abortion group, Google is allowing religious organizations to take out ads using the keyword ''abortion,'' a rare case of the search giant admitting it was wrong. [C8.]
 HURRICANE NEWS ONLINE A Houston TV station, KHOU, was among those that fed live video to the Internet to extend their reach to a nation seeking the latest news on Hurricane Ike. [C8.]
 STILL BANKROLLING MOVIES The crisis on Wall Street is roiling companies around the globe, but bank-financed credit is continuing to flow into the movie business. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CHILDREN (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLISHING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTERNET VIDEO (62%); ABORTION (60%); RELIGION (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



634 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Amid Turmoil, Some Try to Tone Down Emotion

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
For most of the country, the financial crises of the last few weeks have offered an education in economics. For journalists, they have been a lesson in semantics.
 Each day presents new evidence that finance companies are uniquely vulnerable to a loss of confidence among creditors, trading partners, investors or customers. As a result, rumor, speculation and fear can cripple a bank with shocking speed. That has reporters and editors, so often accused of hyperbole and sowing alarm, parsing their words with unusual care. 
 So in most of the news, stocks have ''slid'' and markets ''gyrated'' but not ''crashed.'' Companies have ''tottered'' and ''struggled'' rather than moved toward failure and bankruptcy. 
 ''We're very careful not to throw words around like 'meltdown' and 'free fall,' '' said Ali Velshi, senior business correspondent at CNN. ''If someone wants to say the markets are in free fall, we'll discuss it first,'' he said, and the outcome is most likely to be a change in wording.
 Marcus W. Brauchli, the new executive editor of The Washington Post, said that covering Wall Street differed from any other industry. ''When financial institutions are suffering a crisis in faith about themselves, journalists are inherently a little bit more prudent and cautious.'' 
 This year, the media have been accused of contributing to the collapse of both Bear Stearns and IndyMac, a large California thrift, so journalists are more aware of the risk of stoking fear -- and the risk of being blamed.
 Journalists say there is a narrow gap between their duty to convey the extent of what is happening to banks and markets and causing panic. In fact, ''panic'' heads the list of words that major news organizations have avoided using because they are seen as potentially self-fulfilling.
 '' 'Crash,' 'panic,' 'pandemonium,' 'apocalypse,' those are the words we're staying away from,'' said Robert H. Christie, a spokesman for The Wall Street Journal, now part of the News Corporation.
 At the same time, no one wants to be seen as minimizing the danger. The Journal's front page has called this the worst financial crisis since the Depression, and each day last week it carried banner headlines the entire width of the page -- the first such headlines since September 2001.
 If it were, say, brewers or real estate developers tumbling, the obvious next question for the media would be ''Who's next?'' But journalists have been cautious about predicting the collapse of financial institutions -- in fact, a number of news reports over the summer about predicted bank failures refrained from saying which were most at risk.
 ''I wouldn't say we're not doing those stories, but we're doing them very carefully,'' said Andrew Serwer, managing editor of Fortune magazine, a Time Warner publication. ''How do you say 'There's panic out there, but don't panic?' And is it even our responsibility to say, 'Don't panic.'? ''
 Fortune, in print and online, has used the hot-button words that many others in the media have avoided. Sometimes there is no avoiding naming names, as with the questions raised about Lehman Brothers for months before it filed for bankruptcy last week -- but even there, journalists were reluctant to be predictive. Early this month, a New York Times article described Lehman as ''ailing'' and ''precarious,'' but did not explicitly mention the possibility of failure or bankruptcy.
 ''We can't shy away from describing the mess that we're in as a real mess,'' said Lawrence Ingrassia, business editor of The Times. ''But we aren't going to say, 'Here are three or five institutions that might fail next week.' It's one thing to say an industrial company is having trouble paying its debts, and another thing to say it about a financial institution.''
 Last summer, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York publicly raised the prospect that IndyMac could collapse, and days later, a run on IndyMac forced it out of business. IndyMac employees and a federal regulator accused Mr. Schumer -- and, indirectly, the media, for repeating his statements -- of hastening its demise. Mr. Schumer maintains that the thrift needed no help to fail.
 Some bankers and journalists have asserted that the cable channel CNBC may have fed unfounded fears about the solvency of Bear Stearns last March -- and that saying it made it come true. CNBC has said it stands by its work on Bear.
 Prizing ''scoops'' that can move stock prices, CNBC often reports -- and amplifies -- unconfirmed rumors or tips from single, anonymous sources.
 That has not changed, but in the last few weeks, CNBC reporters have taken care to stress that some of what they say represents someone else's view, that the source might have ulterior motives and that the information is unsubstantiated and could be wrong.
 On Thursday, CNBC broke the news of a possible gigantic federal takeover of bad mortgage loans.
 ''I want to caution everybody,'' said the on-air editor, Charles Gasparino. He said several times that the tip came from ''Wall Street sources,'' not the government, adding, ''We have yet to get a confirmation from the Treasury Department.''
 Moments later, he said that viewers should take into account that his sources ''all have vested interests in this happening.'' Iin the next half hour, well before the government confirmed it would buy up toxic mortgages, the stock market jumped almost 3 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some newspapers reported on the pitching markets using highly charged language. Other organizations feared such word choices could contribute to the financial system's instability. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (63%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



635 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: In Scary Times, Messages of Strength

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
EARLY last week, as the American International Group began to crumble, marketing executives at a large competitor, New York Life Insurance Company, huddled in a series of meetings. They already had an advertising campaign running, but they sensed an opportunity to capitalize on the fast-changing conditions for their industry.
 On Thursday, after a presentation to Theodore A. Mathas, the chief executive at New York Life, the executives won approval for an additional campaign. They dispatched their agency, the New York office of Taxi, to create ads that would play up the reliability of New York Life.
 ''At a time when well-known brands have gone by the wayside, we want to distinguish New York Life from the public companies and others that have had such difficulty,'' said William Werfelman, first vice president at New York Life. 
 ''It's now a matter of very quickly developing creative,'' he added, to react to the market shifts.
 New York Life is one of several financial advertisers seeking to take advantage of the current economic turmoil. But the uncertainties spawned by the unprecedented events -- the collapse of Lehman Brothers; the rescues of A.I.G., Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae; the proposed acquisition of Merrill Lynch by Bank of America -- are raising flags of caution on Madison Avenue as executives worry that no amount of advertising may reassure an anxious public.
 ''In the last couple weeks, you could smell the fear in New York,'' said Martin Sorrell, chief executive at the WPP Group, which owns agencies like Grey, JWT and Ogilvy & Mather, as ''institutions that were regarded as invincible have gone down or had to be bailed out.''
 ''The scale and the speed of all that have shaken people's confidence,'' he added, and it could affect attitudes ''for the rest of the year going into next year.''
 The advertising industry, including giants WPP, has typically used layoffs or other cutbacks to get through tough times. No one is announcing widespread dismissals at the moment, but throughout 2008 -- a bumpy year even before the Wall Street crisis -- there have been layoffs at agencies around the country.
 ''The volatility in the financial markets is clearly creating uncertainty for both marketers and consumers,'' said Michael I. Roth, chief executive at the Interpublic Group of Companies, which owns agencies like Draft FCB, McCann Erickson and R/GA.
 ''This will require us to focus even more closely on helping our clients navigate through this environment,'' Mr. Roth said, ''and at the same time managing our business efficiently.''
 The biggest challenge, executives say, is trying to keep up with the stunning economic and financial events and the resulting mood swings, as evidenced by the roller-coaster ride from the despair of Wednesday to the euphoria of Friday. All that makes it difficult to determine how to best persuade shoppers to open their wallets.
 ''Right now, there are nothing but question marks,'' said David Sklaver, president at KSL Media, a media planning and buying agency.
 ''Every time you think all the shoes have dropped on Wall Street, another one drops,'' he added. ''There are more shoes in this closet than Imelda Marcos's.''
 The result is that ''we have to batten down the hatches for the near term,'' Mr. Sklaver said. ''For every client, it's constantly trying to understand who their best customer is, and building a fence around that customer, treating that customer better than ever before.''
 One lesson learned of late, according to Mr. Sklaver, is that advertisers and the media can no longer ''treat the wealthy as a mass market'' -- that is, expect robust growth to continue indefinitely in sales of high-end products like luxury goods at upscale stores. 
 ''Premium products were unassailable,'' Mr. Sklaver said, but the trouble on Wall Street suggests that ''they're not enough to support the economy.''
 The decline in sales of expensive items has been one factor contributing to a slowdown in demand this year for commercial time and advertising space, even with the stimulation of the so-called quadrennial effect of the Summer Olympics and the presidential election.
 For instance, the Nielsen Monitor-Plus division of the Nielsen Company reported last week that ad spending in the first half of 2008 fell 1.4 percent compared with the same period a year ago. The laggards included ads in national magazines, down 3.1 percent; national newspapers, down 8.1 percent; and spot radio, down 10.1 percent.
 ''The health of the advertising economy depends on the health and vigor of consumer spending,'' said Jon Swallen, senior vice president for research at TNS Media Intelligence, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres that will announce its data for the first half on Tuesday.
 ''To the extent the financial mess forestalls a general economic recovery and makes consumers feel antsy,'' Mr. Swallen said, ''a recovery in ad spending is being pushed farther out into the future.''
 Another reason ad spending may decline is the shake-up in the ranks of the financial marketers. Although companies like Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch are not major advertisers, the extent of changes, including potential mergers and consolidations, among those that are ''could in the long term mean less money spent,'' Mr. Swallen said.
 For some, that is also the case in the short term. For example, A.I.G. decided to discontinue its brand and corporate ads, which carry the theme ''The strength to be there'' -- a message clearly thrown into question by the federal government's bailout of the insurer.
 The A.I.G. business units are still advertising products like auto insurance, said Charlie Armstrong, senior director for advertising and global branding at A.I.G., adding that for the A.I.G. brand ''we are actively exploring messages and communications that would be appropriate for this environment.''
 Still, New York Life is not the only financial marketer to increase its advertising presence.
 An ad for Rockefeller & Company promises ''Responsible and stable wealth management through turbulent times.'' 
 An ad for Wachovia Securities asks investors to ''Think long term,'' adding: After 120 years, it's second nature to us.''
 And an ad for AXA Equitable says, ''in these chaotic times, there is a financial services company dedicated to redefining commitment.''
 The AXA ads, which began running on Tuesday, were developed over the last few weeks. ''The important thing is to reassure people,'' said Barbara Goodstein, executive vice president for marketing, that although ''it's scary out there, we are a company that's financially stable.''
 ''That's why we're visible,'' she added. ''We're comfortable being vocal at a time like this.''
 It is a smart strategy for those financial institutions that are stable, said David Haigh, chief executive at Brand Finance, a brand consulting company.
 ''When everyone's reeling is the time for strong banks to talk,'' Mr. Haigh said. ''You want to know you're with a bank that's not going to go bust on you.''
 Analysts note that many financial advertisers had started shrinking their budgets a year ago, when the problems with bad debt began roiling Wall Street. As a result, many media companies have already absorbed some of the blows.
 ''The financial ad category, when you look at the numbers, has been under pressure for a year,'' said Vivek Shah, president of the Fortune Money Group at Time Inc., part of Time Warner. Ad spending, he added, has been ''a leading indicator, not a lagging indicator.''
 The magazines under Mr. Shah have adjusted their approaches, he said, to attract more advertisers in categories like technology. 
 Many of the most troubled companies were not large advertisers, however, because they sought corporate clients rather than consumers. Lehman Brothers spent only $259,000 to buy ads in the first quarter, according to TNS Media Intelligence, and Merrill Lynch spent $4.9 million. By comparison, TNS figures show that Bank of America spent $134.3 million in the same period. 
 It is unclear what the ad plans are for the Merrill Lynch brand after the Bank of America acquisition goes through; the brand name is to be retained on several units.
 ''It's too soon to talk about any of those types of decisions,'' said Joseph L. Goode, a spokesman for Bank of America. If the last week did not bring horrible news for media companies, neither did it bring good news. Financial advertisers made up 21 percent of the advertisers at national newspapers in 2007, according to an analysis by Sanford C. Bernstein & Company of TNS Media Intelligence data. And they accounted for 20 percent of Internet display advertising in 2007.
 ''The financial sector is a radically restructuring sector,'' said Chris Rohrs, president at the Television Bureau of Advertising, who is also keeping a wary eye on automotive and retail, two other big ad categories for local TV stations.
 The strengths of those categories ''are entirely about confidence and the availability of credit,'' Mr. Rohrs said. ''We've had no confidence and a shutdown of credit.''
 Even before last week, the bureau had forecast that revenue for TV spots in 2009 would decline by 2 to 5 percent compared with 2008. 
 Likewise, Mr. Sorrell of WPP had previously forecast that next year would be a difficult one for the advertising economy. ''What happened in the last few days will make life a little tougher,'' he said, ''but not much tougher than we thought it would be anyway.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In October 2006, the insurance giant A.I.G.'s message on the outfield wall at Shea Stadium seemed fitting. The company has discontinued its brand and corporate ads. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); APPROVALS (71%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (94%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); WPP PLC (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (68%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); JWT (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (74%); WPP (LSE) (74%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (74%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (74%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (74%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: THEODORE A MATHAS (58%); MICHAEL I ROTH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



636 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Houston TV Web Sites Draw World Viewers to Ike Video

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
In the aftermath of Hurricane Ike, the national media's attention was quickly diverted by the financial crisis and the presidential election last week. But the four local stations in Houston used the Internet to extend their reach, streaming their exhaustive coverage online and drawing viewers around the world by providing an alternative to the chatter on cable news. 
 ''The reach of local broadcasters has never been greater,'' Keith Connors, the news director for KHOU, the CBS affiliate in Houston, said in a telephone interview Saturday night. He said the station's Web site had seen ''incredible amounts of streaming.'' 
 The Houston stations have barely had time to catch their breath since Ike made landfall early on the morning of Saturday, Sept. 13, and knocked out power to most of the Houston metropolitan area. They have extended their local newscasts to update viewers on damage assessments, power outages and relief efforts.
 ''I've told our people to approach this as a public utility,'' Mr. Connors said.
 National networks quickly moved from Ike to the Wall Street quake last week. ''I'm hearing from friends around the U.S. that surprisingly little information about Ike is being broadcast or printed,'' Skip Valet, the news director for KPRC, the NBC affiliate in Houston, wrote in an e-mail message to the ''NBC Nightly News'' anchor Brian Williams last Wednesday. Mr. Williams reprinted the message on his blog Thursday, and on Friday said he would travel to Texas soon.
 As the hurricane approached on Friday, Sept. 12, the KHOU Web site drew more than 8 million page views and 250,000 views of the channel's live stream. The next day, the site recorded about 9.2 million page views and 225,000 streams. 
 The video viewing continued, to a lesser degree, last week. The station received e-mail messages from viewers in Australia, Belgium, India, Norway, Saudi Arabia and elsewhere, thanking them for the video stream. Houston evacuees also said they watched the online streams to stay informed. 
 At KPRC, Mr. Valet said the station's Web site had averaged five million page views a day ''as people watch all of the wall-to-wall coverage.'' BRIAN STELTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Overseas viewers as well as evacuees from Houston watched streamed video on the sites of local TV stations, like KRTK, for detailed hurricane coverage. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); STREAMING MEDIA (89%); WEB SITES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (78%); SAUDI ARABIA (78%); AUSTRALIA (78%); BELGIUM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



637 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: In Hotel Bombing's Wake, Pakistan's President Faces Pressure on How to Respond

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD; Carlotta Gall contributed reporting from Islamabad, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Pakistan continued Sunday to reel from the deadly truck bomb blast at the Marriott Hotel here on Saturday, as the government described the bombing as an attack on democracy.
 ''Our enemies don't want to see democracy flourishing in the country,'' Rehman Malik, a senior Interior Ministry official, said at a news conference here on Sunday, adding that the attack was meant to sabotage Pakistan's integrity and economy.
 The bombing, the most brazen yet apparently in a campaign by militants to destabilize Pakistan, came at a critical moment for the new president, Asif Ali Zardari. While he has pledged to continue fighting militants -- now thriving in the tribal areas near the border with Afghanistan -- it was unclear whether he would face political resistance making it more difficult to keep that promise. 
 There has always been a strong feeling in Pakistani society that using force against militants would cause them to retaliate against civilians. Although there has been no claim of responsibility for the hotel bombing, some Pakistanis say they believe it was in retribution for the military's current campaign in Bajaur, in the tribal areas.
 Mr. Zardari also faces pressure to avoid doing the bidding of the Bush administration, because Pakistanis are largely opposed to American policies in the region. That sentiment grew after reports that American Special Operations forces had entered Pakistan early this month. Mr. Zardari headed on Sunday to New York, where he will meet with President Bush this week on the sidelines of the United NationsGeneral Assembly.
 In the wake of the bombing, politicians and the military said they were determined to press the fight in the tribal areas. 
 ''There should be no letup now in fighting those who do not believe in negotiations and are bent upon causing destruction,'' said Amir Haider Khan Hoti, the chief minister of the North-West Frontier Province.
 Current and former officials in the Bush administration, who have expressed concern in the past that Pakistan was not doing enough to fight the militants, said on Sunday that they were confident that Mr. Zardari's government would continue or even increase its counterterrorism campaign, despite the threat of more attacks against civilian targets like the Marriott Hotel.
 ''The terrorist groups are ratcheting up the pressure against the Pakistani politicians, but you won't see the Pakistani government back down because of these attacks,'' said Xenia Dormandy, who directed South Asia affairs at the National Security Council until 2005.
 Meanwhile, the death toll in the hotel blast rose to 53, with at least 266 people wounded, officials said on Sunday. Two Americans were among the dead.
 Mr. Malik, the Interior Ministry official, said Pakistani officials suspected that militants from the tribal areas were responsible. 
 ''All roads lead to FATA,'' Mr. Malik said, referring to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
 He said that more than 1,300 pounds of explosives were used, adding that the blast created a crater about 60 feet wide and 25 feet deep. 
 He also released a videotape showing a six-wheel dump truck stopped by security guards at a barrier in front of the hotel's main entrance. A few gunshots were heard, and after a small explosion the front part of the truck caught fire. It burned for about three minutes as three to four security guards were seen running away and then returning as one guard tried to put out the fire with an extinguisher. 
 Mr. Malik said investigators were still trying to determine whether the attacker was killed by gunfire from the security guards or explosives detonating inside the truck cabin, or whether he got out of the truck and then detonated an explosive device.
 Rescue workers pulled five bodies out of the hotel wreckage on Sunday, as excavators used a crane to clear the debris. Officials had believed, at first, that many people were trapped inside the burning hotel and had feared a much higher death toll.
 Mr. Malik said the investigation into the attack would be conducted only by Pakistani authorities.
 ''We don't need any help; we reject it,'' he said when asked about an offer from the United States to send F.B.I. agents.
 Pakistani officials said at least 106 people, including 11 foreigners, had been admitted to hospitals in Islamabad. Those foreigners included four Americans, four Saudis, a Briton, an Afghan and a Lebanese. One Vietnamese person and the Czech ambassador to Pakistan were among the dead. 
 On Sunday afternoon, distraught relatives milled about anxiously outside one hospital, the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences. 
 Dr. Samia Ali, 33, said she had been visiting Islamabad to attend her sister's wedding and came to the hospital to volunteer. She said most of the patients she had seen had severe burns, head injuries and cuts. 
 Luqman Khan, 25, was lying on a bed in a surgical ward of the institute on Sunday. He was operated on for a head injury on Saturday night. Mr. Khan said he had worked at a government building across the road from the Marriott.
 ''A truck filled with bricks was aflame near the entrance,'' he said. ''People were shouting, 'Get away! Run away!' After a few minutes, there was a big explosion. I fell unconscious.''
 On Sunday the police had cordoned off the blast site, and dozens of people stood by in a somber mood. 
 Shahid Kamal, 42, a freelance editor, said he was sick of the wave of violence that had engulfed Pakistan, especially in the tribal areas.
 ''This is a reaction of what is going on in FATA,'' he said. ''We have been implementing a reckless and careless policy for a number of years. What's happening in FATA is that Pakistanis are killing Pakistanis.'' 
 Muhammad Qadeer, 36, a security guard, said perhaps the Indians could be involved. 
 ''It can be the work of America also,'' Mr. Qadeer said. ''Maybe our new president didn't agree to its dictations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistani soldiers arrived Sunday to search the wreckage of the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad. The death toll rose to 53, including two Americans, with at least 266 people wounded, officials said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AAMIR QURESHI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



638 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: More Bodies Pulled From Hotel Rubble in Pakistan

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The death toll in the truck blast outside the Marriott Hotel here on Saturday rose to 53, with at least 266 people wounded, officials said on Sunday, adding that the numbers weren't expected to grow much more. Two Americans were among the dead.
 The blast was described by the government on Sunday as an attack on democracy. ''Our enemies don't want to see democracy flourishing in the country,'' said Rehman Malik, a senior Interior Ministry official, at a press conference here, adding that the attack was meant to sabotage Pakistan's integrity and economy. 
 The hotel, a six-story structure, was favored by the new government of President Asif Ali Zardari as a place to do business. One of the reasons it was popular with Pakistani officials was its relatively easy access. Security at the hotel building, which was set about only 100 yards from the street, had been considered to be somewhat problematic by Western security officials at the Marriott. But the security was beefed up in the last year, and, increasingly, American officials visiting Pakistan stayed there. 
 Mr. Malik gave details of one of the biggest terrorist attacks in the country's history. He said that more than 1,300 pounds of explosives were used, adding that the blast created a crater about 60 feet wide and 25 feet deep. 
 He also released a videotape. It showed that a six-wheel dump truck was stopped by security guards at a barrier in front of the main entrance of the hotel. A few gunshots were heard, and the front part of the truck caught fire. It burned for about three minutes as three to four security guards were seen running away and one guard tried to put out the fire with an extinguisher. 
 Mr. Malik said investigators were still trying to conclude whether the attacker was killed by gunfire from the security guards, explosives detonating inside the truck cabin or whether he got out of the truck and then detonated an improvised device.
 Rescue workers pulled five dead bodies out of the wreckage on Sunday, as excavators and cranes worked to clear the debris and wreckage of the building. Officials had believed, at first, that people were trapped inside the burning hotel and had feared a much higher death toll.
 There were no claims of responsibility, but Pakistani officials suspected participation by militants operating in the rugged territory in northern Pakistan known as the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, or FATA.
 ''All roads lead to FATA,'' Mr. Malik said, but he stressed that it was premature to name any group or individual. 
 Mr. Malik said that the investigation into the attack would be conducted by only Pakistani authorities. ''We don't need any help; we reject it,'' he said when asked about the offer from the United States to send special F.B.I. agents for assistance.
 Pakistani officials said that at least 106 people had been admitted in different hospitals in Islamabad, including 11 foreigners. These included four Americans, four Saudis and one each from Britain, Afghanistan and Lebanon. One Vietnamese and the Czech ambassador to Pakistan were among the dead. 
 On Sunday afternoon, distraught relatives milled about anxiously outside the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences, or PIMS. 
 Dr. Samia Ali, 33, said she had been visiting Islamabad to attend her sister's wedding and came to the hospital to volunteer. Dr. Ali said that most of the patients she had seen had severe burns, head injuries and cuts. 
 Luqman Khan, 25, was lying on a bed in a surgical ward of PIMS on Sunday. He had had surgery Saturday night. Mr. Khan said that he had worked at a government building across the road from the Marriott. ''I saw it with my eyes,'' he said referring to the blast.
 ''A truck filled with bricks was aflame near the entrance. People were shouting, 'Get away! Run away!' After a few minutes, there was a big explosion. I fell unconscious.'' 
 At the traffic square leading to the hotel, police had cordoned off the blast site and dozens of people stood in a somber mood. 
 Abdul Khaliq, 41, a professor in a private university, said that he had been inside the Marquee Hall Saturday having iftar, the evening meal when Muslims break their fast during the holy month of Ramadan, when the blast shook the hotel. ''The false ceiling fell after the blast. I hid under the table as power went out. It was restored after a few minutes and we came out from the backside. I went toward where my car was parked, but it was badly damaged. So, I left it there and went home in a cab.'' 
 When asked who he thought was behind the attack, Mr. Khaliq said that he had other worries in mind. ''I am more concerned about retrieving my driving license and other documents from my car.'' 
 Shahid Kamal, 42, a freelance editor, said: ''I came here to see the devastation. We are sick'' of the wave of terrorism that has engulfed the country, especially in the north.
 ''This is a reaction of what is going on in FATA,'' he said, as his little niece stood by his side. ''We have been implementing a reckless and careless policy for a number of years. What's happening in FATA is that Pakistanis are killing Pakistanis.'' 
 Others offered different explanations and apportioned blame elsewhere. 
 Muhammad Qadeer, 36, a security guard in an office nearby, said that he thought Indians could be involved, as the blast could have been a reaction to the July bombing outside of the Indian Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, and recent blasts in the Indian capital. 
 ''It can be the work of America also,'' said Mr. Qadeer, a bearded man wearing a blue uniform. ''Maybe our new president didn't agree to its dictations,'' he said when asked why, referring to President Zardari, who was elected two weeks ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FIRES (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TERRORISM (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); HISTORY (51%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



639 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The Fleecing of America

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
World leaders converge on a battered New York this week for the United Nations General Assembly and my advice to them is: think Damien Hirst.
 It's not that I expect them to dwell on the British artist's giant tanks of dead sharks and piglets at a time when the U.S. economy is being socialized to the tune of $700 billion ($2,000 for every man, woman and child in the country) as a result of a giant mortgage-related Ponzi scheme.
 It's that the Hirst bull market in the midst of the most convulsive week for financial markets since 1929 says something important about the global economy and America's declining place in it. In case you missed it, Hirst sold 223 works last week for just over $200 million, well above Sotheby's pre-auction estimate. 
 Oliver Barker, the auctioneer, identified the Russians as major buyers. Sotheby's took a preview of the sale to New Delhi, where it received a number of pre-auction bids. Jose Mugrabi, a New York dealer, told my colleague Carol Vogel that Hirst is a ''global artist'' who can defy ''local economies.''
 For local, read American.
 Yes, folks, the cash is elsewhere. Asians have been saving rather than spending. Their consumers are in better shape, as are their banks. The China Investment Corp. (C.I.C.), a sovereign wealth fund, is sitting on $200 billion (and a 9.9 percent stake in Morgan Stanley) while China's central bank is managing another $1.8 trillion in reserves.
 And what have we heard from the new centers of wealth and power -- China, India, Brazil, Russia, the Gulf states -- about America's financial agony over the past week? Zilch.
 Well, not quite. Asked about the crisis, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the Brazilian president, said: ''What crisis? Go ask Bush.''
 Thanks, Lula. Brazil is sitting on $208 billion of its own in reserves, so perhaps Lula would say his flippancy is justified. But I don't think it is.
 Remember the last financial crisis in 1998? With the Russian economy in a freefall, Moscow officials scurried to the U.S. Treasury to secure vital American support for $17.1 billion in new International Monetary Fund loans. That steadied things.
 The world has changed in the past decade. There's been a steady transfer of wealth away from the United States in a shift most Americans have not yet grasped. But there has been no accompanying transfer of responsibility. New powers are free-riding as if it were still the American century.
 It's not. Imagine if Hu Jintao, the Chinese president, had declared last week: ''China has a deep interest in the stability of the U.S. economy and the dollar. We stand ready to help in the essential return of confidence to financial markets. Talks with the U.S. Treasury are ongoing.'' Or perhaps the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) might have put out such a joint statement.
 Let's be clear: this is an American mess forged by the American genius for new-fangled financial instruments in an era where the mantra has been that government is dumb and the markets are smart and risk is non-existent. The responsibility for undoing the debacle is chiefly American, too.
 But toxic mortgage-backed securities were pedaled by plenty of foreign banks. And the decision to pour $85 billion of U.S. taxpayers' money into the rescue of American International Group (A.I.G.), the insurance giant, followed appeals from foreign finance ministers to Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, to save a global company.
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, told me: ''Paulson said he was getting calls from finance ministers all around the world saying, you have to save A.I.G. Well, they should have been asked to contribute to the pot.''
 Frank has a point. (He should coach Barack Obama on how to put economics in plain language.) As Frank said on ''The Charlie Rose Show,'' ''I don't think the European Central Bank should be free to spend the Federal Reserve's money and not put any in.''
 I know, you reap what you sow. Nobody's itching to help the Bush administration. World central banks did inject billions in concerted action to help stabilize money markets. But the U.S. has essentially been on its own. Now foreign banks with U.S. affiliates will want a slice of the $700 billion bailout. That doesn't make sense until the burden of this rescue starts reflecting a globalized world.
 I asked Frank why Paulson and Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, did not get more foreign support. ''I think it's a perverse pride thing,'' he said. ''We don't ask for help. We're the big, strong father figure. But let's be realistic: we're no longer the dominant world power.''
 It's time for a responsibility shift. Call it the Hirst reality check. If he can sell a formaldehyde-pickled sheep with gold horns for millions while Lehman goes under, perhaps it's time for everyone to help a little when Americans get fleeced. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); PONZI SCHEMES (55%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (65%); HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (55%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



640 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Fans in Mourning as Sun Sets on the Old Yankee Stadium

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The new $1.3 billion Yankee Stadium sat like a jewel of the South Bronx, its fresh concrete and gold lettering gleaming in the late September sunshine. But it was the old stadium across the street -- 85 years and 5 months old -- that people swarmed around and snapped pictures of and stared at one last time on Sunday.
 Matt Aquino, 48, who saw his first game there in 1964, told the story about the day he and his father watched Mickey Mantle hit a home run. His father set down his favorite Zippo lighter to pick him up so that he could see. The lighter was lost for good when they sat back down, and his father never let him forget it. He said he thinks about his father, who died 10 years ago, every time he returns to Yankee Stadium. 
 Other stories poured forth from people outside the stadium who remembered some small, touching moment in the life of the hulking stadium. The Yankees played their last game there on Sunday night, and tens of thousands of people -- fathers and sons, women wearing T-shirts proclaiming, ''I was there,'' children in Yankee pinstripes -- converged on East 161st Street and River Avenue to mourn the passing of what many of them considered sacred ground.
 It was perhaps a testament to the stadium's pull that some fans did not even have tickets to the game. They wanted to get one last look.
 ''I just wanted to say my proper goodbye,'' said Robert Liebowitz, 48, a post office manager from Brooklyn. He sat outside, next to a placard he had made that listed his first game (June 11, 1967), last game (June 22, 2008) and hot dogs eaten (many).
 In April, the Yankees will move into the new stadium. The old one will be torn down.
 The mood among many fans was sentimental, emotional, philosophical. One man said they should have called the new stadium something different, anything but Yankee Stadium.
 ''The new Yankee Stadium will never be like this one,'' said another fan, Al Fekety, 46, of Staten Island. ''It's kind of like when you fall in love. You fall in love once, and you fall in love with one stadium.''
 Mr. Fekety stood near an Italian sausage cart outside the gates, talking of love and, as many were on Sunday, economics. Mr. Fekety did not have a ticket, and he asked fans walking by if they had one to sell him. He had been at it for nearly two hours with no luck.
 ''Someone offered me a ticket for $500,'' he said. ''I said, 'No thanks.' '' 
 There was a heavy police presence inside and outside the stadium to deter fans from attempting to literally take a piece of the stadium home with them. Two middle-aged men were arrested about 2 p.m. for trying to steal a ballpark sign reading, ''Beer $8.50,'' a Yankee spokesman said.
 The final game came too soon for many, because the Yankees are unlikely to make the playoffs this year, and fans' nostalgia was tinged with disappointment.
 There were other disappointments as well. The Yankees opened the gates to fans about 1 p.m., well before the scheduled first pitch at 8:15 p.m., to let people walk on the field, along the track at the edge of the outfield and behind home plate.
 But many came believing they did not need a ticket to get on the field. But once at the gates, they learned from police officers with bullhorns that only ticket holders would be allowed inside. Michael Potter, 42, a social worker from Staten Island, went to the stadium with his wife hoping to take the tour without tickets. Instead, they walked around the stadium's edge, snapping photos. ''I'll take some pictures, go back home and listen to the Giants game,'' said Mr. Potter, who carried a handheld radio in his back pocket.
 The ballpark in the Bronx has long been the symbol of New York City's appetite for victory, hero worship and the way things used to be. There have been two stadiums, really: one the scene of iconic events in Yankee history, the other the repository of New Yorkers' hopes and dreams.
 Bruce Egloff, 59, a Manhattan doorman who was watching the game on television at his Long Island home, remembered grabbing a handful of centerfield dirt and slipping it into his pocket after he watched a baseball miracle: Game 5 of the 1956 World Series, when Don Larsen of the Yankees pitched a perfect game against the Brooklyn Dodgers -- meaning none of the batters he faced reached base. Mr. Egloff was 7.
 Out on River Avenue, there was the sense that something was ending, something people had a hard time putting into words. Vincent Ventura, 59, a retired police officer, aimed his small video camera at the crowds in the bars along River Avenue. He saw his first game in 1958, with his father. ''The memories will last,'' Mr. Ventura said. ''It's only concrete. Memories last forever.''
 When Yankee Stadium opened on April 18, 1923, about 74,200 people watched the Yankees dedicate what was then the biggest stadium in baseball. The Yankees defeated the Boston Red Sox, 4-1. Though a Red Sox batter got the first official hit in the stadium, Babe Ruth landed the first home run.
 In a sign of things to come, two men were arrested before the game for trying to sell their tickets at excessive prices. Excessive is relative, however.
 One man was charged for offering his $1.10 grandstand seat for $1.25. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jay Jackson, left, Kenneth Rivera and Robert Brockington at Yankee Stadium on Sunday night, when the last game was played. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA DIMMOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



641 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: 'Running Out of Time'

 BODY:
Pakistan's military is threatening to shoot American troops if they launch another raid into Pakistan's territory. Whether the threat is real or meant solely for domestic consumption, there is a real danger of miscalculation that would be catastrophic for both countries. 
 President Bush's decision to authorize Special Operations forces in Afghanistan to go after militants in Pakistan's lawless border region was a desperation move. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, admitted earlier this month that America and its allies were ''running out of time'' to save Afghanistan. 
 We certainly share his alarm and his clear frustration that the Pakistanis are doing too little to defeat the extremists or stop their attacks into Afghanistan. But Mr. Bush and his aides should be just as alarmed about Pakistan's unraveling -- Saturday's horrific bombing at Islamabad's Marriott Hotel is only the latest sign -- and working a lot harder to come up with a policy that bolsters Pakistan's fragile civilian government while enlisting its full support in the fight against extremists.
 If an American raid captured or killed a top Qaeda or Taliban operative, the backlash might be worth it. But if there is any chance of permanently rooting out extremists from the tribal areas, that will have to be done by Pakistan's military, backed up with sustained programs for economic and political development. 
 For that, Washington must finally persuade Pakistan's leaders that this is not just America's fight but essential to their own security and survival as a democracy. And Pakistan's leaders must persuade their citizens. 
 We fear that a rising number of civilian casualties, on both sides of the border, is driving more people into the hands of the repressive Taliban and other extremist groups. These attacks are also making Pakistan's new president, Asif Ali Zardari, look weak and irrelevant. 
 He is an undeniably flawed leader, with little political experience and a history tainted by charges of corruption. But he deserves a chance, and American support, to fulfill his promises to bolster democracy, clean up Pakistan's intelligence services and work with the United States to defeat terrorism. 
 Mr. Zardari made a start, inviting President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to his inauguration. In a speech to Parliament on Saturday -- hours before the bombing -- he said his government would not allow terrorists to launch attacks on any neighbor from Pakistani soil, nor would it tolerate further American military incursions. Admiral Mullen made a fence-mending trip to Pakistan last week and Pentagon officials say they are reviewing the overall strategy. Any revised plan must do a lot more to avoid civilian casualties and support, rather than undermine, Pakistan's civilian leaders. Congress can do its part by approving a $7.5 billion aid package, intended to strengthen Pakistan's democratic institutions and its counterinsurgency capabilities. 
 The Pentagon also needs to quickly come up with a better strategy in Afghanistan. Commanders warn that Mr. Bush's promise to send 4,500 additional troops falls far short. We fear that Admiral Mullen is right: there isn't much time left -- on either side of the border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); CORRUPTION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



642 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Tending the Boulevards of Broken Dreams

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla. 

 BODY:
 The lawn mower's whine disrupts the morning peace of Coconut Drive like an alarm clock no one remembers setting. It rises and falls and rises again, as the angry machine cuts across the front-lawn jungle of an attractive house with great location and move-in potential.
 Abandoned, in other words. Three years ago, sold for $660,000; today, a ghostly parcel of failure.
 The lawn mower returns the grass to short uniformity, then growls toward the back yard, passing a two-car garage housing forsaken gardening tools, a basketball hoop no longer conjuring jump-shot dreams and a door leading to a kitchen with a granite-counter island. Now it begins to clear around an in-ground pool brimming with viscous water the color of cash. 
 The man operating the mower is not a landscaper making his weekly visit, but a city employee trying to stem the blight caused by a boom in property foreclosures. His name is Shayne Becher, and just two hours into his shift the 90-degree mugginess has saturated his city-issue cotton shirt. But that's how it is here in Fort Myers, in this season of rain and recession.
 Mr. Becher works for the code enforcement division's rapid response team, which tries to keep up with an ever-growing list of abandoned properties needing to be mowed and boarded up. He is the team's foreman and its only member; his partner recently accepted the buyout the city was offering to reduce its budget.
 So Mr. Becher mows and hammers and sweats from 7 in the morning until 3:30 in the afternoon, five days a week, sometimes with help, sometimes not. He may be unable to reverse the plummeting national economy, but at least when he's done, these deserted houses have a curbside appeal that neither offends neighbors nor attracts criminals.
 With perspiration beading at the tip of his nose, Mr. Becher uses a blower to clean the sidewalk and driveway, then piles fallen coconuts and other debris at the curb for public works to collect. Before climbing into his truck, he pauses to assess his handiwork at what was once someone's dream house.
 ''Beautiful,'' he says. Then he drives a few blocks to another site of abandonment, on Sunset Place.
 Come to Fort Myers, population 60,000, the seat of Lee County. Walk the Gulf Coast beaches. Cruise the Caloosahatchee River. Witness what happens when banks dole out easy mortgages and homeowners forget that the money isn't free. Drive down McGregor Boulevard, or Cleveland Avenue, turn left or turn right, and see the empty houses, the overgrown lots, the signs saying AUCTION and FREE RENT.
 Celebrate the fact that, according to RealtyTrac, a listing company, the Fort Myers-Cape Coral area no longer leads the country in foreclosure rates; that is so -- July. In August the area ranked sixth, with one in every 66 housing units receiving notice of an auction, repossession or loan default.
 One of the fallouts is wholesale abandonment. Michael Titmuss, a former Fort Myers police officer who became the city's manager of code enforcement seven years ago, is seeing new and disturbing trends in the city he loves. Failing condominium associations. Criminals renting deserted buildings they do not own to unsuspecting tenants. More and more no-shows at code enforcement hearings.
 ''They're desperate,'' Mr. Titmuss said. ''They feel hopeless and they don't know where to turn. They're good people in a bad position. They perceive themselves as unable to comply, as being surrounded by a pack of wolves.''
 He didn't finish the thought because these days some things are understood: The homeowners walk away, leaving their properties to banks as unwanted parting gifts for having provided risky loans in the first place. 
 Here in Fort Myers, the code requires that grass be no higher than 12 inches. Otherwise, neighbors complain about property values, rats and snakes receive sanctuary and lurking criminals find easy cover.
 If a lawn isn't mowed, a process kicks in. The city mails a courtesy postcard, saying: Time to mow your lawn, neighbor. After that it sends the rapid-response team -- that is, Mr. Becher -- to mow. Then it bills the homeowner for the service, though these bills often become liens on property that no one wants and banks are not eager to reclaim.
 In July, the city mailed at least 600 courtesy cards -- more than three times the number sent out the previous July. Still, codes must be enforced; lawns must be mowed. In hiring Mr. Becher several months ago, Mr. Titmuss passed on strange reassurance: ''We will train you. And oh, by the way, we've never seen what you're about to deal with.''
 Mr. Becher, 39, is like a lot of people here: He's from someplace else. He moved a year ago from the small central Michigan city of Greenville, where he was a public works foreman. But his first marriage failed, his patience with small-town nosiness ran out and his side business as a builder came to what he calls ''a screeching halt.'' Just like the Michigan economy.
 Now here he is, driving a Ford pickup to Sunset Place, pulling a gasoline-perfumed trailer that contains two riding mowers, three chain saws, five weed whackers, two hedge clippers and a toolbox. He also has two jugs of water, a ham and cheese sandwich and a pages-long list of properties that need to be mowed or boarded up.
 He pulls up beside a small, one-story house. City records include a photograph of this house taken in December 2005 that depicts a white convertible and a black dog in the driveway; today the house is a shell, with gaping holes where air conditioners have been yanked out, probably for scrap.
 Mr. Becher sets down a foot-high traffic cone beside the knee-high grass, takes a ''before'' photograph to document the violation, and mounts his mower. He used to begin every job by tromping through the property, searching for debris or tree stumps that might damage the mower's blades. But he saw a snake not long ago, he says. ''I'm not much of a snake man.''
 The mower begins its cringing whine, a kind of keening over these tough times. Mr. Becher expertly maneuvers around corners and bushes, the machine an extension of himself and of bureaucratic efficiency. Until, that is, it lurches to a halt, its gears entwined with a hose hidden in the brush.
 ''Holy smokes,'' he says. Using willpower and a knife, he extracts the snakelike hose and gets on with the job.
 In the hours to come, Mr. Becher will mow two more lots. He will pass sign after sign saying FREE RENT. He will board up several buildings, including one house containing little more than auction brochures, and another, directly across from a public library, containing the detritus of a crack den. He will meet up with a code-enforcement officer, Ron Giddings, who will ask him: ''Can you cut 4040 Rainbow tomorrow? It's next to a day care center, and she's complaining about rats and snakes.''
 But right now, he is immersed in tidying the messiness of failed plans. He finishes mowing, takes a photograph of a job well done, and closes the chain-link fence as though the property were his own.
 ''Another day in paradise,'' he says, standing on this street called Sunset.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEFT BEHIND: Shayne Becher, 39, of Fort Myers, Fla., is the sole member of the city code enforcement division's rapid response team, which tries to maintain abandoned properties needing to be mowed and boarded up. Until recently, the area led the country in foreclosure rates.
 Mr. Becher working at a foreclosed property on Coconut Drive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BASKETBALL (75%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (70%); BEACHES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



643 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: How Three Economists View a Financial Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The Bush administration is working with Congress to fill in the details of its plan to take the bad mortgage-related debt off the books of banks and financial institutions and stabilize the financial markets. 
 With Congress scheduled to begin its election-year recess at the end of this week, the administration has little time to pull the plan together. While the negotiations are going on, The New York Times asked three economists to offer their thoughts about the administration's actions. 
 Steven L. Schwarcz
 Professor of law and business, Duke University School of Law 
 The proposal by the Treasury to use government money to purchase mortgage-backed securities held by financial institutions should defuse the financial crisis, but at a cost to taxpayers that unfortunately will be much higher than if the government had acted when markets first began to collapse. It is, however, along with Treasury's Sept. 7 announcement that it will purchase securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the first serious attempt by government to cure the underlying financial disease and not merely treat its symptoms.
 To cure the disease, government must focus on treating the loss of confidence in the financial markets. The American International Group, Bear Stearns, Lehman and potentially other financial institutions are in trouble, not because of problems with economic fundamentals, but because of falling prices of mortgage-backed and other securities, requiring these institutions to mark their securities down to the collapsed market prices or triggering insurance obligations on these securities. That, in turn, has created a downward death spiral of collapsing prices.
 A market liquidity provider of last resort is needed to correct these market failures by investing directly in securities of panicked financial markets, thereby stabilizing prices and dampening the downward death spiral that can lead to market collapse. This type of targeted market investment should generate minimal costs, and certainly lower costs than those of a lender of last resort to financial institutions -- the Fed's traditional role.
 Whatever entity the Treasury is contemplating to purchase mortgage-backed securities held by financial institutions, the fact that it will directly purchase securities will set an important precedent for creation of a market liquidity provider that can act proactively, not merely reactively, after the damage is done. 
 By acting at the outset of a market panic, a market liquidity provider can profitably invest in securities at a deep discount from the market price and still provide a ''floor'' to how low the market will drop. Had a market liquidity provider been in existence when the subprime crisis started, the resulting collapse of the credit markets would almost certainly have been restricted in scope and lessened in impact, and we would not now be facing the need to try to save A.I.G. and other institutions.
 Douglas W. Elmendorf
 Senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington
 The Treasury's new plan for stabilizing the financial system has already made a sharp impression on financial markets and the public consciousness. Yet little has been revealed about how the plan will work.
 The Resolution Trust Corporation of the early 1990s provides scant guidance on how to proceed. That company was designed to sell assets the government had acquired by honoring deposit insurance at savings and loans. But the objective now is to buy assets. The challenge is picking the best means of doing so. What should the government buy, from whom, in what quantity and at what price? 
 The Treasury plans to purchase mortgage-related debt, which lies at the heart of the crisis. Yet this approach has significant disadvantages.
 First, mortgage-backed securities and derivatives of these securities are not all alike. Reverse auctions within broad debt classes would be risky, because current holders would try to unload the lowest-quality securities within each class. Relying on the judgment of hired investment firms to pick prices and quantities has the potential for inefficiency, unfairness and abuse. 
 Second, buying troubled debt provides the most help to firms that made the worst investments. Banks that stayed clear of bad debt or cut their losses early would receive little or no gain, while banks with the weakest balance sheets would reap the biggest rewards. Not only is this unfair, it would dampen the impetus for restructuring the financial sector to give a smaller role to institutions and business models that have failed.
 Third, taxpayers would take on significant risk but see limited potential gain -- in contrast with the rescues of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and A.I.G., where taxpayers got large equity stakes.
 An alternative approach is to make equity investments in a wide range of financial institutions. If the government offered each bank an investment equal to a given percent of its market value in exchange for a corresponding equity stake, the problems I listed above would be avoided. And because the government would be a minority shareholder, it would not directly manage or control these banks. This approach raises its own concerns that would need to be addressed, but it is a more promising starting point.
 Vincent R. Reinhart
 Resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute
 Political leaders recognize that more than improvisation is needed to cope with the collapse of the housing market and the financial market crisis in its wake. Before they turn to the details of draft legislation, however, they had better settle on what they are trying to accomplish.
 Helping households in distress is a retail business, requiring decisions on a mortgage-by-mortgage basis. Similarly, negotiating with individual financial firms about their mortgage holdings takes time and infrastructure. Such negotiations put the government at a decided disadvantage because the other side in the transactions has more information about each asset.
 In both cases, politicians will have trouble establishing boundaries for assistance. While about one in 15 households with mortgages is now late in making payments, many more have suffered wealth losses. Builders, too, are in distress. And there are tens of thousands of financial institutions in the country, almost all of which have some impaired loans on their books.
 The unpleasant reality is that time is short, resources are stretched and many of the nation's urgent needs are unmet. Because government funds are not unlimited, legislation should focus on the immediate problem of the strains in financial markets.
 Providing aid to large financial firms is distasteful, especially when remembering their excesses and the time when their managers were considered masters of the universe. But those firms hold the larger economy hostage. As long as they are unwilling to support market functioning and make new loans, spending will sag and asset prices will slide. 
 The Congress should authorize the Treasury to purchase asset-backed securities in the secondary market and mortgages through auctions. For assets where it might not have all the information it needs, the Treasury could demand a slice of equity in the selling firm as well. As has been the case since its inception, the Federal Reserve can act as fiscal agent, making some of the purchases directly and supervising outside managers where special expertise is needed. 
 The election calendar narrows the window of action and provides reason to keep the draft legislation simple. The assets acquired this year will certainly not be sold before a new administration and Congress are in power. Thus, it is neither necessary nor appropriate to make decisions on what to do with those mortgage assets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven L. Schwartz (PHOTOGRAPH FROM DUKE UNIVERSITY)
Douglas W. Elmendorf (PHOTOGRAPH FROM BROOKINGS INSTITUTE)
 Vincent R. Reinhart (PHOTOGRAPH BY BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



644 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: G.E., a Giant of Lending, Is Dragged Down Along With Banks

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
General Electric is best known as an industrial powerhouse, with manufacturing prowess in businesses that range from giant generators to jet engines to alternative energy technologies like wind mills and solar panels.
 Yet General Electric is as much a bank as a blue-chip industrial company. Half of its profits come from its giant finance arm, GE Capital, whose global portfolio spans aircraft leasing, commercial real estate lending, credit cards and home mortgages. 
 Indeed, G.E. is the largest nonbank finance company in the United States, with assets of $696 billion and $545 billion in debt. If it were a bank, GE Capital would be the nation's fifth-largest.
 So G.E. found itself engulfed last week in the market turmoil, treated by fearful investors as another financial company potentially in peril, until news of a planned federal bailout brought a rebound in the markets late Thursday and Friday. 
 At one point on Thursday, G.E. shares were down 20 percent for the week, before they revived to close at $26.62 a share on Friday -- down just 0.5 percent from Monday. 
 Perhaps more telling, the cost to insure the debt of GE Capital, with so-called credit default swaps, had more than doubled by Wednesday. The insurance cost had dropped by Friday, though it remained well above the level of a week earlier. G.E. was not among the nearly 800 financial companies that the Securities and Exchange Commission said it would temporarily protect from short selling, but the company expects to be added to the list, according to a G.E. spokesman, Gary Sheffer. 
 Given the continuing uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, G.E. will remain in the spotlight and is likely to be under pressure. In a report on Thursday, the independent credit rating agency Egan-Jones concluded, ''With the tsunami sweeping over the financial sector, it is unrealistic to expect that G.E. will not get wet.''
 G.E., according to analysts and institutional investors, will not face the huge write-downs of financial asset values that sets off a liquidity crisis -- the downward spiral seen at the failed investment banks. G.E., they say, does not have large holdings of exotic securities and is conservatively managed.
 G.E. also has far less debt than most banks, giving it more financial ballast and flexibility in difficult times. Its ratio of debt to equity is less than 8, compared with 15 for some large commercial banks and 30 or more for some investment banks before they ran into trouble.
 But the financial market crisis, analysts say, does present G.E. with challenges to its financial performance, its strategy and perhaps even its business model of using stable profits from the finance unit to cushion the company from up-and-down cycles in industrial sales. The upheaval also makes it more difficult for G.E. to pare some of its holdings, like NBC Universal and the credit card operations, and make itself less reliant on the financial sector. 
 In general, analysts share the self-assessment offered this week by the president of GE Capital, Michael A. Neal. ''We're a very conservative finance company and not a Wall Street wannabe,'' Mr. Neal, a long-time G.E. executive who took over as head of GE Capital in July, said in a brief interview last week.
 The outlook for the current quarter is uncertain. G.E. had already startled Wall Street with lower-than-expected earnings in the first quarter, when the markets seized up with the collapse of Bear Stearns. Some analysts retooled their financial models last week and now estimate that GE Capital's earnings in 2009 will decline 5 to 15 percent, compared with previous projections that the finance unit's profit would hold steady.
 The financial turmoil, they say, also poses a threat to the pace of the strategy of G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, to simplify the sprawling company and reduce its reliance on the finance business. The plan is to trim the contribution from finance to about 40 percent, while tilting more toward supplying equipment for what it calls ''infrastructure'' industries like transportation and energy, as well as health care, which G.E. considers a high-growth field.
 ''Immelt wants financial services to evolve into a cash cow, and the infrastructure and technology businesses to be the growth engines of the company,'' said Noel M. Tichy, a professor at the University of Michigan Business School who once ran G.E.'s management school at Crotonville, N.Y.
 Sell-offs intended to accelerate the strategy will be more difficult in a time of credit-crimped economic weakness. G.E., for example, has said it wants to sell off its consumer appliance unit. But with housing in a slump and consumers tightening their belts, potential buyers are likely to be scarce and picky. G.E. has said it will not sell at fire-sale prices. The company has said its primary focus now will be to spin off both its consumer appliance unit and the lighting business.
 Similarly, the company wants to sell its private-label credit card business in North America, where G.E. handles credit cards for companies like Wal-Mart Stores, IKEA, Brooks Brothers, Dillard's and Lowe's. That business is still profitable for G.E., bringing in an estimated $500 million profit this year, according to Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst for the brokerage firm Sterne, Agee & Leach. Yet that business too is becoming more difficult to sell at an attractive price as consumer spending falls and delinquencies rise.
 Most analysts expect that G.E. will eventually sell its film and television business, NBC Universal. Time Warner has looked at buying NBC Universal, according to executives at the media company, who are not authorized to speak publicly. But if G.E. were to sell NBC Universal before it can reduce its dependence on GE Capital, the result would be that the finance business would loom larger in the overall company. So selling NBC Universal, analysts say, is probably a couple years down the road now.
 G.E. did not avoid mortgage lending woes in the United States altogether, but it recognized the problem early and got out. In 2004, G.E. bought a subprime lender in California, WMC Mortgage. But G.E. grew alarmed by the risks and sold it off in 2007, taking a total loss of about $1 billion. ''That was a big mistake,'' said Robert Spremulli, an analyst at the investment company TIAA-CREF, which owns G.E. shares. ''But it wasn't a disaster for G.E.''
 On Sept. 14, G.E. did post a letter to investors on its Web site describing its lending practices. In both its commercial and residential mortgage business, G.E. holds the loans it makes instead of passing them on to others. It was the originate-to-sell model of some mortgage brokers, who took none of the risk on the loans they marketed, that proved an invitation to irresponsibility and fraud.
 Nearly 100 percent of G.E.'s residential mortgages are outside the United States. A G.E. spokesman said exposure it had to the embattled American International Group, a big mortgage insurer, was resolved by the insurer's federal bailout.
 G.E.'s commercial real estate lending is mainly outside the United States, and the average loan is a conservative 68 percent of the value of the property. G.E.'s finance business hinges on the company's blue-chip triple-A rating from the big credit rating agencies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's. A top rating allows G.E. to borrow for less, and it lends mainly to midsize corporations, which typically have a lower, triple-B rating. 
 Sean J. Egan, manager of the credit rating desk at Egan-Jones, questions G.E.'s top-line rating. In his firm's report last week, he wrote, ''G.E. does not look, sound or act like a AAA credit and, therefore, probably is not a real AAA.''
 In an interview, Mr. Egan said most of G.E.'s businesses -- not just finance -- would face increasing profit pressures in a weak economy. The company also needs to raise $80 billion over the next 15 months, mostly in commercial paper. ''It all begs the question of whether G.E. can generate the levels of earnings and cash that it has in the past,'' said Mr. Egan, whose agency rates G.E. at A+, several notches below AAA.
 But G.E. insists its blue-chip credit rating is both justified and safe. In a perilous time for many financial companies, GE Capital reported a $5.2 billion profit in the first half of the year alone. In a conference call with analysts in July, Keith S. Sherin, G.E.'s chief financial officer, said that maintaining the company's top credit rating was the priority. ''Everything we do is about making sure we keep it AAA,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: G.E.'s chief, Jeffrey Immelt, wants to cut back on finance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD) (pg.C1)
 Michael A. Neal of GE Capital called the unit ''very conservative,'' adding that it was ''not a Wall Street wannabe.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (56%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



645 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: A Deadline For Survival At The Sun

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
When the first issue of The New York Sun hit the streets six years ago, reviving one of the storied names in American journalism with a new conservative tone, some of the analysts who followed the newspaper industry predicted that there would be rough going. It had been years since a brand-new newspaper had tried to capture the minds of readers in New York, not to mention money from advertisers.
 The Sun's editors and reporters loved the David-and-Goliath odds they faced, competing against long-established papers with larger staffs and bigger budgets. They prized their scoops, even as the paper ran up million-dollar losses year after year.
 Then came the news that caught them by surprise. On Sept. 4, at the top of the front page, was a 984-word ''Letter From the Editor'' announcing that The Sun would close by the end of this month unless it drummed up new financial backing. 
 The letter said The Sun had already talked with ''a number of newspaper proprietors and other potential investors,'' and The Sun's president and editor, Seth Lipsky, said in an interview, ''I'm making the rounds.''
 ''I haven't raised all that I need,'' he added, ''but I've raised a lot.''
 And so The Sun finds itself at what Mr. Lipsky called ''a crossroads,'' facing a self-imposed deadline at a time when the newspaper industry itself is reeling. Nationally, advertising and circulation have slipped in the Internet age, and some papers, including The New York Times, have used buyouts and layoffs to reduce their staffs. 
 For a while, The Sun's front page bragged that it had ''150,000 of New York City's most influential readers every day.'' But its paid circulation is only about 14,000, Mr. Lipsky said. One way or another, it gives away about 66,000 copies a day. 
 ''We're in a tight spot,'' Mr. Lipsky said. ''The New York Post went down to the last hour before Rupert Murdoch swept in'' and took control in 1993. 
 Mr. Lipsky paused. ''He's not going to sweep in on this one.''
 That made Mr. Lipsky's letter all the more ominous. Some readers sent in checks of $100 or $200 -- not enough, Mr. Lipsky joked in the interview, to cover the paper's deficit.
 The staff was committed to The Sun -- so committed that Mr. Lipsky's announcement caught the city editor at the time, David Lombino, off guard. The Sun had just offered jobs to two reporters, and its newest correspondent in Washington, who was already on the paper's staff, had just moved there from New York. 
 'Guerrilla-Style Troupe'
 ''We felt very much like we were in the Wild West of the industry, putting out a daily newspaper in the country's biggest media market with relatively few resources and a startup climate,'' Mr. Lombino said. ''We were this ragtag, guerrilla-style troupe.'' 
 The afternoon before the letter appeared on the front page, Mr. Lipsky called the paper's top editors into a conference room to tell them about it. Mr. Lombino -- who had already decided to leave The Sun for a public relations job at the New York City Economic Development Corporation -- said he and another editor had speculated before the meeting about what Mr. Lipsky would say. They figured the possibilities were a move to new offices, a switch to a weekly schedule or a makeover as a Web-only publication.
 Mr. Lipsky said he made the announcement ''so nobody would be under any illusions'' about the hurdles The Sun faced. 
 Some of those hurdles seemed typical of a startup company going through its growing pains. But some were peculiar to the startup that The Sun was: a newspaper based in New York that was determined to be different from the city's other papers. 
 Scott Sherman, writing in The Nation last year, described The Sun as ''a paper that functions as a journalistic SWAT team against individuals and institutions seen as hostile to Israel and Jews.'' He said its ''day-to-day coverage of New York City emphasizes lower taxes, school vouchers and free-market solutions to urban problems.''
 One former editor said the staff had drunk Champagne in the newsroom in 2003 when the American-led invasion of Iraq began. As at least one commentator noted in the wake of Mr. Lipsky's letter, The Sun, in editorials, had mentioned Vice President Dick Cheney as ''the one who would bring the most to the race'' for president this year.
 The Sun covered the city with a staff a fraction of the size other papers depend on. Mr. Lombino said The Sun's local news staff had six reporters, two of whom also worked for other desks. That was about half the number when he became city editor in March 2007. He said that some reporters who left had not been replaced, and that others had been transferred to other sections of the paper. 
 The Sun was the brainchild of Mr. Lipsky, a former Wall Street Journal reporter and editorial writer. In the 1990s, he started The Forward, an English-language offshoot of the venerable Yiddish-language newspaper The Daily Forward. 
 For The Sun, he lined up backers who included Michael H. Steinhardt, a longtime friend of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and a former chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council; Roger Hertog, an investment banker who was chairman emeritus of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy-research organization; and Bruce Kovner, a hedge fund manager. 
 Another original backer was the Canadian-born newspaper baron Conrad M. Black, whom Mr. Lipsky has described as ''one of the greatest newspapermen of his, or any, time.'' Mr. Black's company, Hollinger International, sold its stake in The Sun after he was ousted as Hollinger's chairman in 2003. 
 Last year, after Mr. Black was convicted on federal fraud charges that had nothing to do with The Sun, Mr. Lipsky said Mr. Black had been ''an inspiring partner and friend.'' And according to Mr. Lipsky, it was Mr. Black who set The Sun on its trajectory. 
 Originally, Mr. Lipsky's idea was to take the name and logo of the famous New York newspaper that went out of business in 1950. That New York Sun is perhaps best remembered for the ''Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus'' editorial and the exposes about labor union corruption that inspired the film ''On the Waterfront.'' Mr. Lipsky said his initial plan was for a six-page newspaper with a circulation of 7,000 ''modeled in my mind'' on the Italian newspaper Il Folio. 
 A Change in Plans
 He said he raised $15.9 million by the fall of 2001. In November of that year, Mr. Lipsky and his associate, Ira Stoll, gave a dinner at the Harvard Club for The Sun's investors. Mr. Lipsky described the newspaper he had in mind and, according to Mr. Lipsky, Mr. Black told the group, ''This is not a good plan.''
 ''He felt the better approach would be to go for a newspaper that is not a quixotic paper operating on the margin like a six-page broadsheet,'' Mr. Lipsky said, ''but that one should go for what he called a 'primary read,' which he said would need to be a 16-page broadsheet with a sports page and a business page.''
 ''We liked what he said,'' Mr. Lipsky said, ''and started drafting a new plan.''
 The first issue, on April 16, 2002, had 18 pages. ''We launched with the slogan of 'New York on Page 1,' '' said Mr. Stoll, the managing editor, who started a Web site in 2000 called smartertimes.com that was a critique of The New York Times. ''It was a time when The New York Times Company was talking about its national edition. We thought we saw an opening here in New York City, but as we got into it, I think it was not so unique a selling proposition as we thought.''
 As time went on, he said, The Sun opened bureaus in Washington and at the United Nations, neither of which were provided for in the paper's original plan. He said The Sun had also sent reporters to Iraq, and to Beijing for the Olympics. ''And we had a reporter in Darfur very early on,'' he said.
 In the beginning, Mr. Lipsky recalled, he was bullish about its chances: ''I hoped to get to break even within the first year.''
 Mr. Lipsky and Mr. Stoll would not discuss the paper's financial picture in detail. ''By the standards of the newspaper business,'' Mr. Stoll said in an interview in his office, ''our losses aren't that unusual. I mean, Gannett spent an awful lot of money starting USA Today. Starting a publication takes a lot of money -- and time.''
 Mr. Stoll said The Sun had been ''on the way'' to markedly better numbers before it made ''a strategic decision'' to raise the price to $1 a copy, from 25 cents. At the same time, The Sun increased what the newspaper industry calls ''controlled circulation'' -- copies distributed free. The Sun also stopped charging for access to its Web site.
 Mr. Lipsky said the controlled circulation was ''a great attraction to our advertisers.''
 But John Morton, a newspaper industry analyst, said it was unlikely that The Sun could ever draw enough advertising to cover its operating costs.
 ''The problem with The Sun is they never developed very much paid circulation,'' Mr. Morton said, ''and they're limited now by how much they can give away because it costs money to give away newsprint. When you lose money on every copy you distribute, it doesn't take much for the money to mount up.''
 Carving Out a Niche
 Stephen B. Shepard, the founding dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York, said The Sun had carved out a place for itself with its coverage of foreign policy issues and the arts. 
 ''It's meant to be a niche paper targeted for a certain New York readership that can get certain things there that they can't get from The Times,'' he said. ''Whether it's had any impact, it's very hard to measure.''
 That was a question that dogged one of Mr. Lombino's predecessors as city editor, Colin Miner, now a freelance reporter for The Oregonian in Portland, Ore. Mr. Miner said that in 2003, a source leaked the mayor's management report, City Hall's annual report card on itself, three days before the mayor planned to announce it. 
 ''I did a front-page story,'' Mr. Miner said. ''No one noticed, at which point, I did a second front-page story.'' 
 Only then, he said, did he get an angry call from Edward Skyler, who was Mayor Bloomberg's press secretary.
 ''There were a lot of people who didn't understand why anybody would give us a story,'' Mr. Miner said. ''That was part of the fun. It made us more determined to get more stories because nothing says you're serious like a good scoop.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the financial hurdles faced by The New York Sun, which has said it will close by the end of September if it does not receive new backing, misspelled the name of the Italian newspaper cited as an early model for The Sun. It is Il Foglio, not Il Folio. And a picture caption misidentified one of the editors at a planning meeting. The editor shown standing is Geoffrey Foster, the sports editor, not Kelly Sherin, the photo editor. (Because of a production error, a passage from this correction was merged in some editions on Tuesday with an International correction, above, about the Moscow Journal.)
An article on Monday about the financial hurdles faced by The New York Sun, which has said it will close by the end of September if it does not receive new backing, misspelled the name of the Italian newspaper cited as an early model for The Sun. It is Il Foglio, not Il Folio. And a picture caption misidentified one of the editors at a planning meeting. The editor shown standing is Geoffrey Foster, the sports editor, not Kelly Sherin, the photo editor. (Because of a production error, a passage from this correction was merged in some editions on Tuesday with an International correction, above, about the Moscow Journal.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Sun's reception area. The first issue was in April 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
From left, the cultural editor, Pia Catton
the photo editor, Kelly Sherin
a deputy managing editor, John Seeley
and the managing editor, Ira Stoll, at a planning meeting. ''By the standards of the newspaper business, our losses aren't that unusual,'' Mr. Stoll said.
 Seth Lipsky, in his office, is seeking financial backing to save the paper: ''I haven't raised all that I need, but I've raised a lot.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); PAID CIRCULATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGETS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



646 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Fastens Its Seatbelt, Preparing for This Week's Ride

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and VIKAS BAJAJ; Heather Timmons contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After one wild week, Wall Street braced for another.
 Frazzled traders and money managers spent an angst-filled weekend struggling to fathom the sweeping bailout the Bush administration proposed for financial institutions in the United States and what it will mean for the world's markets. 
 At big banks, staff members rushed to update trading records before the opening bell sounded on Monday morning in New York. Quants, those math-loving traders who use complex computer models to hunt out investments, tinkered with algorithms.
 Some hedge fund managers, unsure where the markets will go or what the government will do, sought safety in cash. Securities lawyers sorted through new rules from the Securities and Exchange Commission that will require such funds to disclose their bearish bets on financial companies. 
 And in between, everyone tried to catch up on some sleep. 
 But after the Dow Jones industrial average cartwheeled a dizzying 1,023 points in 24 hours on Thursday and Friday, ending the week virtually where it began, just about the only thing people seemed to agree on was that this ride was not over. 
 Some on Wall Street feared that the explosive rally in the stock market -- the Dow soared nearly 3.9 percent on Thursday and then 3.3 percent Friday -- would prove fleeting. 
 Others worried that the dollar and Treasuries would weaken further, given the enormous burdens that the bailout will place on the Treasury. 
 And still others argued that the markets were so volatile that the safest thing is to stay out of them. Indeed, the VIX index, a closely watched measure of volatility that is sometimes referred to as the fear index, spiked to its highest level since 2003 last Wednesday. 
 ''Sometimes the answer is to do nothing,'' said Keith McCullough, the chief executive of Research Edge, an investment research firm. ''Just keep your cash in a safe place.''
 As details of the Bush administration's rescue proposal trickled out this weekend, money managers were eager to learn more about how the plan would proceed. The administration proposed to give the Treasury authority to buy up to $700 billion in distressed assets from financial institutions to shore up the industry and avert economic upheaval. But many questions remain. 
 Some portfolio managers said they held off working on Saturday and Sunday, hoping more details would emerge Sunday night. 
 ''Everyone has to be at their post in the event that we get meaningful details,'' said Douglas Peta, market strategist for J.& W. Seligman & Company, an asset manager in New York. ''Any details that emerge will importantly bear on what the market's going to do on Monday.''
 William H. Gross, the chief investment officer of the giant bond firm Pimco, spent Sunday morning on his treadmill and planned to go into the office later in the afternoon. Earlier in the weekend, he and Mohamed A. El-Erian, the co-chief executive of Pimco, sent a single-page, 10-point directive to all Pimco officers about what they should do Monday morning.
 Mr. Gross said he expected the financial bailout plan to push down the dollar and the price of Treasury notes and bonds, but that it should help rally mortgage securities. That squares with Pimco's big investment in bonds backed by home loans that are issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 ''This is a revolutionary move,'' Mr. Gross said of the federal plan, ''where we now expect and the market expects a transformation of wild, wild west capitalism to hopefully the benevolent fist of government.''
 Many money managers, particularly hedge funds, were also trying to make sense of the new short-selling rules. On Friday, the S.E.C. temporarily banned short sales of nearly 800 financial stocks. The announcement followed a similar move by financial regulators in Britain. In Australia, the government imposed a 30-day ban on short-selling of all stocks, even those far removed from the financial sector, on Sunday.
 Short-selling has been blamed by banking executives for contributing to the decline in financial stocks in recent months. Short-sellers borrow shares of companies' stocks and sell them, hoping to later repurchase them at lower prices and profit from the spread. 
 Over the weekend, traders whose strategies depend on shorting stocks tried to reassess their models. Some quantitative hedge funds execute thousands of split-second trades and use short positions to hedge their risks. The shorting rule on Friday made it more expensive to purchase put options on stocks, which are bets that the stock's price will fall.
 ''We can't really trade if we can't use options,'' said Bradley S. Banks, managing partner of Athena Capital Research, a small hedge fund in New York. 
 Mr. Banks added that his fund would adapt to the new rules, but a problem was a lack of clarity over what the permanent rules would be.
 Many investors in the United States exited their short trades on financial stocks on Friday. Investors will be required to report short positions in such stocks to the S.E.C., beginning in a week. The short-selling rule expires on Oct. 2, but could be extended. 
 James L. Melcher, president of Balestra Capital, a hedge fund in New York that has been bearish on stocks for the last couple of years, said the S.E.C.'s move caught him by surprise. Mr. Melcher said his firm closed about half its short positions on Wednesday because he believed that regulators would aid the financial system, given recent events.
 ''What we have periodically done is we have sold short into the rally,'' he said. ''When things come down again, we buy. That's what a lot of hedge fund guys do.''
 Some of the investing strategies that are in flux because of the rule changes include index futures arbitrage and merger arbitrage. For instance, traders who want to make a bet on whether the merger involving the Bank of America and Merrill Lynch will go through will not be able to use short-selling this week to do so. 
 Some investors say that the pause in short-selling of stocks may create a lack of liquidity in the markets and create volatility.
 ''They're making the whole body so sick just to get rid of the part they want to address,'' said Lee Schultheis, chief investment strategist at AIP Mutual Funds, which operates a fund of funds. 
 Mr. Schultheis suggested that the government might better accomplish its goals of slowing market turmoil by reintroducing the so-called uptick rule, which was repealed 14 months ago. Under that rule, which dated to the 1930s, investors could not short stocks unless there had been a purchase on the upswing first.
 ''The only thing that is predictable for this week is the volatility, which will remain high,'' Vidak Radonjic, managing partner of Beryl Consulting Group, which works with hedge funds. ''The market is a real mess right now, fundamentals do not count, and fear and greed rules.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tourists in the financial district on Wall Street near the New York Stock Exchange on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



647 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: In Hollywood, Credit Remains, At Least for a Few Big Names

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Hollywood, apparently, is still in the money.
 The crisis on Wall Street is roiling companies around the globe, but bank-financed credit is continuing to flow into the movie business, albeit on a much more moderate basis. 
 On Friday, as government leaders cobbled together a historic rescue of the American financial system, Media Rights Capital, one of Hollywood's most prominent independent production companies, closed on a $350 million revolving credit fund led by JPMorgan Chase and Comerica. The financing effort began just six weeks ago, said Asif Satchu, co-chief executive of the film company.
 ''In a credit climate that on its surface has completely shut down, this deal proves that there is money available,'' said Marni Wieshofer, a senior vice president of Media Rights Capital. Mr. Satchu added that ''banks are still in the business of putting money to work; they're just making many fewer bets.''
 The new financing will be used to expand the production company deeper into film, television and digital projects and will be used in conjunction with the company's initial $425 million capitalization. Media Rights Capital has helped to finance such films as ''Babel,'' starring Brad Pitt, and is behind a high-profile digital video collaboration between Seth MacFarlane, the creator of the ''Family Guy'' television series, and Google.
 The deal follows the announcement last week that Steven Spielberg had secured $700 million in credit through JPMorgan to start a new production company in partnership with Reliance Big Entertainment of India.
 Movie companies have looked to complex financing deals with private money in the last two years to offset risk and help cover sharply higher production costs. But in recent months that pipeline has slowed to a trickle because of the credit meltdown, with even the likes of Paramount Pictures becoming unable to find acceptable financing terms.
 Last week, as the economic crisis escalated, Hollywood started to fret anew. But the Media Rights Capital deal, in partnership with Mr. Spielberg's money, indicates that film companies considered to be low risk can continue to tap the credit market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); COMERICA INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); CMA (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: SETH MACFARLANE (59%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (59%); BRAD PITT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



648 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: As His Fraud Trial Begins, Fallen Arts Patron Decries His Prosecution

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
He sits abandoned and bitter in his luxury condominium at United Nations Plaza. The electronic monitoring bracelet is off his ankle, but he cannot travel without court permission, and his curfew is 11 p.m. Rage at the government seems to be Alberto W. Vilar's constant companion. 
 Once a high-flying investor who rode the technology-stock bubble and spread his largess throughout the cultural world, Mr. Vilar tumbled off the stage on May 26, 2005, when he was arrested on charges of defrauding clients of his firm, Amerindo Investment Advisors. 
 With his trial opening on Monday -- the same day his beloved Metropolitan Opera starts its season -- Mr. Vilar sounds defiant about his legal troubles and still boastful about his past financial success. He is angry at prosecutors and the news coverage and disillusioned about those he once counted as friends.
 ''I've been fighting some charges I think are preposterous, and thank God they're going to trial soon,'' Mr. Vilar, 67, said, speaking slowly and quietly. The strict conditions of his $10 million bail have been eased. ''But I don't lead a very normal life,'' he said, ''with the brutality of the criminal justice system on my back.'' 
 Mr. Vilar had already suffered a fall from grace before his arrest, when arts institutions disclosed that he had failed to keep up with his pledges. The Metropolitan Opera -- to which he promised $20 million but, by his own admission, gave half of that -- took his name off its grand tier; the Royal Opera at Covent Garden in London removed ''Vilar'' from its Floral Hall; the Salzburg Festival took his picture out of its programs.
 Now the United States government will lay out the full extent of its allegations. Jury selection starts on Monday, with opening arguments on Thursday before Judge Richard J. Sullivan in United States District Court in Manhattan. The trial is expected to last seven weeks. 
 Mr. Vilar's business partner, Gary A. Tanaka, will also go on trial. ''He looks forward to this long-awaited day in court and his opportunity to vindicate himself and his name,'' said Mr. Tanaka's lawyer, Glenn C. Colton.
 The 12-count indictment alleges conspiracy to commit securities fraud, investment adviser fraud, mail fraud, wire fraud and money laundering. The combined prison terms would amount to more than 150 years.
 In interviews several days before the trial, Mr. Vilar said a dispute with a client was trumped up into a criminal matter. He denounced prosecutors for saying early during the highly publicized case that $5 million in allegedly stolen money was the ''tip of the iceberg.'' 
 ''You know what's missing?'' he said. ''Zero. The government is saying, 'None of your clients lost a penny, and you've got to go to jail for the rest of your life.' ''
 Mr. Vilar blamed his high-profile philanthropy for the prosecution. ''If I had been another guy who said, 'Gee, put another Picasso on the wall,' they probably wouldn't have bothered me,'' he said. The United States attorney's office declined to comment, but government documents allege $17 million has gone missing.
 Mr. Vilar also finds it painful, he said, that the board members and cultural officials who benefited from his patronage have abandoned him. ''The notion of presumed innocence doesn't exist,'' he added. ''I'm disappointed to say that 99-point-X percent of people I knew haven't had the decency to pick up the telephone and say anything, like, 'My prayers are with you.' '' Even members of his small family have turned their backs on him, Mr. Vilar said. 
 He said he spends most of his time alone in his 25th-floor apartment overlooking the East River and the United Nations, surrounded by the trappings of a cultural life. Legal documents and binders covering glass tables and the floor are the anomaly in his 5,500-square-foot living room, with its gold brocade drapes, marble floor, paintings and sculptures, and well-tuned Steinway baby grand piano. 
 A larger-than-life-size bronze statue of the child Mozart has pride of place. A reproduction of the Met chandelier hangs from the ceiling. A framed newspaper photograph showing Mr. Vilar in his old seat at the Met, A-101, sits on a side table. Recordings of the tenors Rolando Villazon and Fritz Wunderlich lie nestled in a CD player tray. 
 His life is a far cry from what it was in the mid-1990s, when he rode the market boom, especially in technology stocks. His funds soared in value, and the profits rolled in. Mr. Vilar's investment firm was managing $9 billion, and his wealth at one point was valued at a near $1 billion.
 ''We were the first investors in probably 15 household tech companies that made it,'' he said.
 As his fortune grew, Mr. Vilar embarked on a giving spree, pledging some $200 million in all to arts and other institutions. He was not shy about announcing his largess, often demanding naming rights for the projects he financed, even suggesting that he be recognized onstage at the Met. Some acquaintances cited a craving for attention and legitimacy; Mr. Vilar said he was trying to set an example for potential donors.
 But when the stock bubble burst, starting in 2000, the value of his funds declined markedly. He began defaulting on pledges -- by as much as half of what he had promised -- though what he did distribute still makes him a major arts patron. Many institutions that were happy to take his money started keeping their distance. 
 One of the few to retain the Vilar name was the Vail Valley Foundation, which runs the Vilar Performing Arts Center in Beaver Creek, Colo. Mr. Vilar gave about $7 million toward the $15 million cost of building it, said Harry Frampton III, the foundation chairman.
 ''We're inclined to keep the name,'' Mr. Frampton said. ''It was a number of years ago he fulfilled his financial commitment. Last time I checked, he was still innocent.'' 
 After his arrest bail for Mr. Vilar was set at $10 million. He spent nearly a month in jail before rounding up enough pledges of assets from friends, including the Russian conductor Valery Gergiev. (A tax lien prevented Mr. Vilar from putting up his apartment as a guarantee.) He was at first confined to his house except to go to church, the doctor and the like. Conditions were eased in the summer of 2007, although he still needs court permission to leave town. He has visited a relative in Puerto Rico and attended a Civil War re-enactment in Gettysburg, Pa.
 These days, Mr. Vilar said, he spends 10 to 12 hours a day working on his defense. He reads, and he is writing a book about his investing career, philanthropy and legal case. ''People would be shocked by the abuse of the justice system,'' he said.
 He occasionally attended the Met last season, catching perhaps a dozen performances, a far cry from the 100 worldwide he said he used to attend. ''To the day I die I'm going to love opera,'' he said. ''Classical music has been the cornerstone of my life.''
 Meanwhile his lawyers struggled to suppress a mass of evidence seized from Amerindo offices, with partial success. The case remains relatively narrow, focusing on two types of investment offerings.
 The indictment accuses Mr. Vilar of inducing a victim in 2002 to invest $5 million in a new Amerindo fund backed by the government to steer venture capital to small businesses, including biotechnology companies. He promised a quarterly return of $250,000. 
 The investor has been identified in other court documents as Lily Cates, an heiress and the mother of the actress Phoebe Cates. She and Mr. Vilar were once close friends, and her investments with Amerindo reached $18 million in 2000, the government said.
 But, the indictment says, Mr. Vilar never had government approval for the fund and steered her money elsewhere, failing to redeem it when she asked for it. The government says that Mr. Vilar instead used her funds to make donations for his alma mater, Washington and Jefferson College in Washington, Pa., and the American Academy in Berlin; business and personal expenses; and the redemption of another customer's investment.
 ''There's no way they can prove that,'' Mr. Vilar said. ''She made millions with the firm, and I had complete authorization to invest her money.'' He said that Ms. Cates later ''got a bee in her bonnet about something'' and began asking for her money back. ''Next thing I know,'' he added, ''she files a complaint that we had stolen her money.'' He said he had agreed to return her money only days before his arrest.
 The indictment also accuses the two defendants of establishing a ''sham product'' called Amerindo Guaranteed Fixed-Rate Deposit Accounts. In those accounts, investors' money was said to be put in short-term debt instruments with little or no risk, high rates of return and liquidity. In fact, the government charges, the money was mingled with Amerindo's brokerage accounts, and investors were put off when they asked for their money back. Government documents say two sisters, Lisa and Debra Mayer, whom Mr. Vilar had known in Puerto Rico, lost $12 million in the scheme.
 ''That's a 100 percent lie,'' Mr. Vilar said. He acknowledged that some of that money was put in equities, not debt instruments, but called that a regulatory matter and said the money represented less than 1 percent of the firm's overall assets. 
 In the interview Mr. Vilar promised to fight on. ''There's no way in kingdom come we're even going to consider a plea bargain,'' he said. ''That this can happen in the United States is beyond your wildest imagination.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alberto W. Vilar, known for his donations to the Metropolitan Opera and other organizations, in his condominium. Jury selection in his trial begins Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MONITOR SENTENCING (90%); OPERA (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); JURY DUTY (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); ARRESTS (75%); JUDGES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (70%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERINDO INVESTMENT ADVISORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



649 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Set Conditions as Treasury Chief Rallies Support for Bailout

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN, STEPHEN LABATON and MARK LANDLER; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This article was reported by David M. Herszenhorn, Stephen Labatonand Mark Landler, and written by Mr. Labaton.
 WASHINGTON -- Congressional Democrats began to set their own terms on Sunday for a plan to rescue the nation's financial institutions, including greater legislative oversight of the Treasury Department, more direct assistance for homeowners and limits on the pay of top executives whose firms seek help. 
 The Democrats' demands came as Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. blanketed the Sunday talk shows to promote the Bush administration's $700 billion bailout package, emphasizing that it was needed not just for Wall Street, but for all Americans. He urged Congress to move swiftly to approve a ''clean'' rescue plan without tacking on extra programs.
 ''I hate the fact that we have to do it, but it's better than the alternative,'' Mr. Paulson said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' 
 The Bush administration proposal could be the largest government bailout of private industry in the nation's history, and it calls for nearly unfettered powers to the Treasury secretary. There is intense pressure to pass a rescue measure quickly because the markets remain jittery.
 Still, competing interests were already complicating the negotiations, as Democrats pushed for assistance for distressed homeowners and for oversight authority of the bailout program. Some lawmakers also said they did not want to be rushed into approving extraordinary new powers for the Treasury secretary and the government without full consideration of the consequences.
 Both presidential nominees, who face the prospect of inheriting an enormous new program, said there had to be more oversight of the Treasury Department than the Bush administration had proposed. 
 Financial companies were already lobbying to broaden the plan. And the Bush administration did indeed widen the scope by allowing the government to buy out assets other than mortgage-related securities as well as making foreign companies eligible for government assistance.
 Banks and traders also braced themselves for another tumultuous week in the markets. But early signs indicate that investors in Asia were reacting positively to the developments in Washington. Shares in Asia jumped in early trading on Monday morning, as investors took their cues from a rally on Wall Street on Friday. The Nikkei 225 index climbed 2 percent in early trading in Tokyo, and the Kospi index rose 3 percent in Seoul, South Korea.
 The Standard & Poor's/Australia Stock Exchange 200 index increased 3.6 percent after markets there opened a half-hour late. The opening was delayed to allow time for further details to be issued regarding a monthlong ban imposed by Australian regulators on all short selling of shares traded on the exchange.
 Meanwhile, top Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill said on Sunday that they would act swiftly on the administration's request, but not without setting their own conditions. 
 ''Congress will respond to the financial markets crisis by taking action this week in a bipartisan manner that will protect the taxpayers' interests,'' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. She added that the administration's proposal did ''not include the necessary safeguards. Democrats believe a responsible solution should include independent oversight, protections for homeowners and constraints on excessive executive compensation.''
 ''We will not simply hand over a $700 billion blank check to Wall Street and hope for a better outcome,'' she said.
 Congressional Republicans, too, put the Bush administration on notice that they would not rubber-stamp the bailout proposal but would insist on a number of changes, including specific protections for taxpayers. Those would include a requirement that any profits from the program be returned to the Treasury. 
 Aides to senior House Republicans said that lawmakers would also demand greater oversight of the program and were proposing a joint select committee, consisting of members of both parties and both chambers of Congress.
 Top administration officials and senior lawmakers said that the markets could be devastated if Congress and the administration failed to reach agreement on the plan.
 On Sunday, Mr. Paulson defended the plan and the administration's decision to expand it to protect foreign companies and authorize even wider latitude to buy assets other than those that were backed by mortgages. 
 Mr. Paulson, a former Wall Street deal maker, also suggested that the administration would have some flexibility in dealing with concerns raised by Congress.
 Democrats said the plan would need to provide more specific relief for troubled homeowners. They said the program, which the administration proposed to be run by Treasury, would have to be more accountable to Congress. And they said that the plan must restrict the compensation of corporate executives from companies that make use of the program to sell the burdensome securities on their balance sheets to the United States.
 ''We need to offer some assurance to the American taxpayer that Congress is watching,'' Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, told reporters on Sunday. ''One of the things that got us into this mess was the lack of accountability and the lack of oversight that was occurring, and I don't think we want to repeat those mistakes with a program of this magnitude.'' 
 Mr. Paulson said he hoped that the government would recoup much of the cost of buying distressed mortgage-related assets. But he did not rule out that the initial cost of the bailout could rise beyond $700 billion, the limit set in the terse proposal sent by the Treasury to Congress on Saturday.
 ''That doesn't mean we'll go all the way there, or it doesn't mean it will stop there and we won't ask for more,'' Mr. Paulson said on the CBS program ''Face the Nation.'' ''What we need is something that is big enough to get the job done. We'll ask for what we think is a right amount to give us plenty of flexibility.'' 
 Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, put forward the Democrats' proposed changes to the administration's plan. They would give the Treasury secretary the authority to set ''appropriate standards'' for compensation of senior executives whose companies sell troubled assets to the government. 
 Under a so-called claw-back provision, the secretary would have the power to force companies to recoup previous payments to executives of companies involved in the program. And Mr. Frank's plan would give broad authority for the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, to audit and oversee the program.
 But Mr. Paulson said that he was concerned that imposing limits on the compensation of executives could discourage companies from participating in the program.
 ''If we design it so it's punitive and so institutions aren't going to participate, this won't work the way we need it to work,'' Mr. Paulson said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''Let's talk about executive salaries. There have been excesses there. I agree with the American people. Pay should be for performance, not for failure.'' 
 But he quickly added: ''But we need this system to work, and so we -- the reforms need to come afterwards.''
 Republicans, though troubled by some of the same issues as Democrats, seemed ready to give Mr. Paulson wide latitude.
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said on ABC: ''We don't need 535 members of Congress adding their best idea. We need to keep it clean, simple, move it through the House and Senate, and get it on the president's desk.'' 
 Even as Ms. Pelosi and other Congressional leaders were pledging to act swiftly and said a deal was probable by the end of the week, some lawmakers said they would not be rushed into approving a plan.
 ''I realize there is considerable pressure for the Congress to adjourn by the end of next week,'' Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, wrote in a letter to the Senate leaders of both parties. ''But I think we must take the necessary time to conduct hearings, analyze the administration's proposed legislation, and demonstrate to the American people that any response is thoughtful, thoroughly considered and appropriate.''
 Mr. Dodd said he expected that Treasury would not be particularly interested in any of the Democratic proposals. But he said he had already warned Mr. Paulson to keep an open mind.
 ''I suggested strongly to him that he leave this door open, or he is going to find himself facing some significant problems,'' Mr. Dodd said at a briefing with reporters on Sunday at the Capitol. Mr. Dodd, who met with several of his Democratic colleagues, said that reaching a deal could keep Congress in session past this week, when leaders had hoped to adjourn for the fall elections. ''This is of such import that if it takes a little longer to get it right, so be it,'' he said.
 As they plotted an endgame, Democrats said they planned to consider the bailout proposal separately from an economic recovery program that would include new public works spending, aid to states and added unemployment and food-stamp benefits. Congress could consider that plan and a stop-gap funding plan for the federal government before taking up the Treasury proposal later in the week.
 While House Democrats were the first to propose additional legislative language, Senate Democrats were working aggressively behind the scenes on several provisions that could set off debate among lawmakers and aggressive lobbying by an array of interest groups.
 Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, has proposed a provision that would grant the government warrants to purchase stock in companies that participate in the bailout plan, so that taxpayers might be able to profit should the firms flourish after selling their bad debts to the government.
 Several Democratic senators are interested in reviving a provision that was knocked out of legislation last summer to grant bankruptcy judges the authority to modify the terms of mortgages for primary residences. That provision is opposed by the banking, lending and securities industries. But supporters say it would guarantee that lenders enter negotiations to modify loans to struggling homeowners.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on ''Face the Nation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FACE THE NATION/KARIN COOPER) (pg.A1)
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. after appearing on ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'' on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A19) CHART: DEMOCRATS' PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS: Reacting to the $700 billion bailout plan proposed by the Treasury Department, Democrats are discussing modifications, among them a number of changes proposed by Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, including these: LIMITS ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION: Companies seeking to sell their distressed assets would have to agree to limits on executive pay and severance, and might have to get back some of the incentive bonuses previously paid out to executives.
REDUCING FORECLOSURES: To help homehowners avoid foreclosure, the program should encourage loan modification or restructuring among other efforts.
 OVERSIGHT: Mr. Frank wants the comptroller general and the Government Accountability Office to monitor the program, including watching for conflicts of interest. (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); APPROVALS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (62%); HISTORY (52%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); BARNEY FRANK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



650 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: In Trial of Alaska Senator, a Story of Oil, Money and Politics

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ted Stevens and Bill Allen, who will soon confront each other in a federal courtroom here, were once friends of sorts, thrown together at Alaska's busy intersection of politics and oil money. 
 For decades, each man played a different but essential role in the story of the state's transformation from a remote frontier into an economic bonanza. 
 Mr. Stevens, 84, the longtime Republican senator from Alaska, is a decorated World War II aviator, a graduate of Harvard Law School and a former federal prosecutor. He goes on trial Monday on felony charges that he knowingly failed to disclose some $250,000 worth of gifts and services from Mr. Allen. 
 Mr. Allen, 71, who will be the prosecution's main witness, is a rough-hewn man who grew up as an itinerant fruit picker and dropped out of high school when he was 15 to enter the energy industry as a welder. After working on some of the state's earliest offshore oil platforms, he eventually made millions of dollars as a freewheeling contractor for oil companies on the North Slope. 
 While Mr. Stevens has earned a reputation as a gruff and cantankerous legislative player, Mr. Allen's world in Alaska was far cruder than the relatively genteel ways of Washington.
 Mr. Allen has already pleaded guilty to bribery and conspiracy charges and testified at two trials of Alaska state legislators about his determined efforts to bribe lawmakers. The trials portrayed a raucous, frontier atmosphere in Juneau, the state capital, where Mr. Allen and his lobbyists set themselves up in a liquor-stocked hotel suite and summoned legislators to direct their votes on oil issues.
 In the indictment of one lawmaker, Pete Kott, the government said that Mr. Allen had told him in crass language that he owned him.
 At one trial, Mr. Allen was asked about law enforcement reports that he had considered killing his nephew over an attempt to blackmail him over his alleged gifts to Mr. Stevens. Mr. Allen denied that he had planned to kill his nephew, saying that while he was angry, ''I wouldn't have done that because his mother is my sister.''
 At the height of his influence, Mr. Allen created and ran one of Alaska's largest companies, Veco, which until recently employed about 4,000 people (at one time including Ben Stevens, the senator's son). He recently sold most of the closely held oil services company for $146 million, retaining what could be an additional $70 million in assets. Mr. Allen, who faces an estimated 11 years in prison, has had his sentencing delayed numerous times, presumably to assure his cooperation with prosecutors as part of a deal in which his children remained untouched by the investigation.
 Mr. Stevens, who entered the Senate 40 years ago and is the longest-serving Republican in Senate history, is running for re-election this fall. The trial has been accelerated at his request in hopes of obtaining a verdict before Election Day. Mr. Stevens acquired his considerable power over years on the Senate Appropriations Committee, a post from which he has steered millions, perhaps billions, of dollars in federal money to Alaska. For most of that time he has reigned as Alaska's dominant political figure. 
 Despite their differences, Mr. Stevens and Mr. Allen developed a relationship, Alaskans say, at least in the symbiotic sense of men who recognize in each other someone who could prove helpful. 
 ''I don't think they were real good friends,'' said Michael Carey, an Alaska political analyst who once headed the editorial board of The Anchorage Daily News. ''But in Alaska, people like that inevitably become accustomed to dealing with each other.''
 According to the indictment, Mr. Stevens treated Mr. Allen as an all-purpose handyman and service desk. He is charged with seven counts of failing to list on his Senate disclosure forms goods and services provided by Mr. Allen that were used to refurbish the Stevenses' family home in Girdwood, southeast of Anchorage.
 The indictment says that Mr. Stevens first asked Mr. Allen to help renovate the Girdwood house in 2000. In short order, the indictment charges, Mr. Allen and his company arranged to jack up the house on stilts and built a new first floor with two bedrooms and a bathroom. They also added a garage, workshop and wraparound deck. 
 In ensuing years, they provided new kitchen appliances, repaired the boiler and provided a fancy built-in gas grill, according to the indictment. Mr. Stevens wanted his daughter to have a better car, the indictment says, so Mr. Allen bought a $44,000 Land Rover and provided it to the daughter in exchange for a used Mustang worth less than $20,000, and $5,000 in cash.
 It is especially noteworthy that Mr. Stevens is charged only with failing to list the gifts on Senate disclosure forms and not with bribery, that is, taking the items in direct exchange for some official favor. But the Justice Department has filled the indictment, nonetheless, with assertions that as a senator, Mr. Stevens provided significant help to Veco and Mr. Allen in their business ventures in Alaska and overseas. Prosecutors say the assertions are needed to demonstrate that Mr. Stevens had a motive to conceal the gifts.
 Mr. Stevens's lawyers have protested, saying that including those assertions allows the government to ''smear'' him without having either the ability or burden of proving there was any quid pro quo. 
 From their court filings, Mr. Stevens's lawyers, led by Brendan Sullivan, are planning to mount a defense on several fronts. Mr. Stevens has said that he paid one subcontractor hired by Mr. Allen $130,000. The subcontractor has been quoted in The Anchorage Daily News as saying that he was paid about $100,000 by Mr. Stevens. Either way, that opens the way for an argument that Mr. Stevens, a busy lawmaker, did not keep close track of the true value of the renovation and items and believed that he had paid the full amount for them. 
 In July, Mr. Stevens told reporters that ''every bill that was sent to us has been paid, personally, with our own money, and that's all there is to it.''
 Defense lawyers have also given notice that they intend to attack Mr. Allen, who is expected to testify that Mr. Stevens fully understood that he was getting the remaining $250,000 worth of items and services free.
 The defense lawyers have asked for records of a 2004 investigation into whether Mr. Allen had sex in the 1990s with a girl who was younger than 16. The case was closed at the request of federal prosecutors when the girl, by then an adult, became the chief witness in a federal case involving a sex-and-cocaine ring, according to news reports. 
 Mr. Stevens's lawyers have also asked for Mr. Allen's medical records to show that he might be mentally impaired from a motorcycle accident in 2001 in which he was not wearing a helmet and hit his head on the pavement. Mr. Allen testified in the previous trials that his thinking and memory remain unaffected, leaving only his speech patterns impaired.
 The trial, before Judge Emmet G. Sullivan, is expected to last at least three weeks. It is unclear whether Mr. Stevens will take the stand, but lawyers not involved in the case said that was unlikely because it would expose to an open-ended cross-examination a man who is widely regarded even by his Senate colleagues as ill-tempered and difficult to like. His lawyers also failed to get the trial moved to Alaska, leaving Mr. Stevens with a jury in the District of Columbia, which historically has been unsympathetic to officials charged with wrongdoing.
 Mr. Stevens, who is locked in a tight race with his Democratic opponent, Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage, would obviously receive a boost and a major talking point if he is acquitted. Under Senate rules, he will not have to resign if he is convicted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ted Stevens goes on trial Monday on charges that he knowingly failed to disclose some $250,000 worth of gifts and services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL GRILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SENTENCING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); BRIBERY (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); FELONIES (75%); LOBBYING (73%); LAWYERS (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); EXTORTION (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



651 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Investors will get a sense of where the housing market is headed with reports on existing-home sales for August (Wednesday) and new-home sales for August (Thursday). 
 Other reports will include durable goods for August (Thursday) and final second-quarter gross domestic product and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday).
 THE REGULATORS The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr.; the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke; and the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Christopher Cox, are to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on the government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Tuesday).
 Mr. Paulson, Mr. Bernanke and federal housing officials will testify before the House Financial Services Committee on the takeover of Fannie and Freddie (Thursday).
 Mr. Bernanke will also testify on the economic outlook before the Joint Economic Committee (Wednesday).
 COMPANY REPORTS It is a light week for earnings, with reports coming from 3Com (Monday), Lennar (Tuesday), Bed, Bath & Beyond and Nike (Wednesday), Rite Aid and Research in Motion (Thursday) and KB Home (Friday).
 ET CETERA Jury selection begins in New York in the fraud trial of Alberto W. Vilar and Gary Tanaka, the founders of Amerindo Investment Advisors (Monday).
 The first initial public offering in seven weeks, Fluidigm, is expected to be priced after being postponed last week (Monday).
 The first mobile device powered by Google's mobile phone software will be introduced in New York (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); JURY DUTY (66%); JURY TRIALS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); GOOGLE INC (82%); KB HOME CORP (55%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%); AMERINDO INVESTMENT ADVISORS (54%); FLUIDIGM CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%); KBH (NYSE) (55%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%); FLDM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (55%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); HENRY PAULSON (74%); CHRISTOPHER COX (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



652 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Visa, San Francisco, expanded its relationship with TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, by naming TBWA as its global lead strategic and creative agency, effective on Jan. 1. Spending was estimated at $600 million. The TBWA/Chiat/Day unit of TBWA has been the lead creative agency for Visa in the United States since 2005. Other agencies on the Visa creative roster included Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, for countries like Canada, and Grey, part of the Grey Global unit of the WPP Group, for countries in Europe. 
 Men's Wearhouse, Houston, named DeVito/Verdi, New York, to handle national advertising and marketing communications. The account, with spending estimated at more than $60 million, had most recently been handled internally. The agency will work for chains that in addition to Men's Wearhouse include K&G, MW Tux and Moores Clothing for Men.
 Nestle Purina Pet Care Company, St. Louis, part of Nestle, expanded its relationship with Avrett Free Ginsberg, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, by awarding the agency the creative assignment for Tidy Cats cat litter. Spending was estimated at more than $15 million. The assignment had been at Berlin Cameron United, New York, part of the United division of the WPP Group. Avrett Free already handles campaigns for cat food brands sold by Nestle Purina.
 McAfee, Santa Clara, Calif., the security technology company, chose the San Francisco office of Tribal DDB Worldwide, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, as its lead agency for advertising. The assignment is new; spending was estimated at more than $7 million. Tribal DDB will work with DDB Worldwide and OMD, an Omnicom media agency.
 People
 Aaron Horowitz joined Zig, part of MDC Partners, as business development leader, overseeing growth efforts in the United States. Mr. Horowitz will be based in the Chicago office of Zig, which has its headquarters in Toronto. Mr. Horowitz had been vice president for business development at the Chicago office of Imc2. 
 Miscellany
 The Social Media Advertising Council, New York, is being formed as an industry association to set standards for buying and measuring marketing in social media. There are more than 25 founding members, which include social media companies, advertisers and agencies; among them are BzzAgent, Deep Focus, Digitas, Edelman, MediaVest Worldwide and Moxie Interactive. Tom Gerace, chief executive at Gather, is the founding chairman of the council.
 Rapp Collins Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, is being renamed Rapp.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PET FOODS (90%); CATS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (75%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PETS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); WPP PLC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (72%); MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (57%); NESTLE SA (56%); MOORES CLOTHING FOR MEN (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); MW (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (56%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (57%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (57%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (57%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



653 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS BARNSTORMING; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: A Big Event: The First Debate

 BODY:
With the nation gripped in an economic drama, the campaign rhetoric will be heavily devoted to bailouts, markets and wallet issues, especially as the candidates start the week by appealing for the votes of blue-collar workers in Northern swing states. But by midweek much of the candidates' attention -- and all of the campaign energy -- will be shifting south, to Oxford, Miss., where Senators John McCain of Arizona and Barack Obama of Illinois will meet for their first debate. 
Both campaigns know the debate could be a pivotal moment in the race. The 90-minute event, scheduled for 9 p.m. Friday, Eastern time, at the University of Mississippi, will discuss foreign policy and national security. Given the interest in the race so far, viewership is expected to be high.
On Monday, though, Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, first heads to Wisconsin before holding two more fund-raisers in Chicago. Then he is off to camp -- debate camp -- in the Tampa Bay area of Florida to prepare for his face-to-face with his Republican rival, Mr. McCain.
Mr. McCain will spend Monday in Pennsylvania, reunited with his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, for a rally. He next plans to visit Ohio and then New York City for a couple of nights, as the United NationsGeneral Assembly meets. He will also spend part of the week preparing for the debate.
Ms. Palin is scheduled to make her first visit to New York since she became Mr. McCain's running mate. In addition to meeting with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan on Tuesday, Ms. Palin plans to meet with former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia.
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Mr. Obama's running mate, will be in Baltimore on Monday, Washington on Tuesday and then Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (50%); ALVARO URIBE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



654 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: As Paulson Looms Large, New Speculation About Who Could Succeed Him

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Charlotte, N.C.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Just over two years ago, Henry M. Paulson Jr. took the job of Treasury secretary, though the post had become so devalued that others had turned it down. He is likely to leave as one of the most powerful of the 74 secretaries in history and to pass those powers on to his successor.
 Suddenly the next president's selection for Treasury secretary, a job that was ranked with the secretaries of defense and state until its importance dimmed in the early years of President Bush's tenure, has become even more consequential. 
 The financial emergency has expanded the Treasury secretary's authority beyond anything that Alexander Hamilton could have foreseen when George Washington tapped him 219 years ago this month. And that was before Mr. Paulson sent Congress a spare three-page proposal for broad new powers. Newsweek magazine put Mr. Paulson on its cover as ''King Henry.'' 
 Congressional leaders indicate they will impose some limits this week, and an adviser to Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee, said on Sunday that the senator might express concerns this week that the proposal would give too much power to one person. 
 Even so, the job description is likely to be rewritten so that the Treasury secretary is not only the overseer of the government's tax revenue and fiscal policies domestically and abroad, as before, but also is in effect the chief executive for the nation's financial system.
 Under the plan, the secretary would have a credit line of $700 billion from the taxpayers -- more than the Pentagon's annual budget -- to go into any financial institution and buy, hold and ultimately sell mortgage-related assets. In a sense, that would make Washington and not New York the nation's financial capital. The powers would be for two years, but that could be extended: Mr. Paulson has said the troubles with mortgage loans will most likely last years.
 All of this has ignited speculation about whom Senator Barack Obama or Mr. McCain might name as Treasury secretary if elected president. The consensus in both parties is now that the next secretary must -- like Mr. Paulson, formerly chief executive of Goldman Sachs, one of only two surviving investment banks -- be well versed in financial markets. 
 The emergency also has spawned talk of Mr. Paulson staying on for a time, as secretary or something else. As the Great Depression deepened, the Treasury secretaries to President Herbert Hoover, a Republican, and his Democratic successor, Franklin D. Roosevelt, initially cooperated to try to sort out the mess of failed banks.
 Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, does not rule out retaining Mr. Paulson, a Republican. The two have spoken almost daily since Treasury put the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into government conservatorships two weeks ago, and Mr. Obama speaks highly of Mr. Paulson.
 ''Getting a new person to start juggling those balls is going to be tricky,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview aboard his campaign plane Saturday. ''Regardless of who wins the election, the issue of transition to the next administration is going to be very important. And it's going to have to be executed with a spirit of bipartisanship and cooperation.''
 But Obama advisers say it is more likely that he would pick someone new. The names bandied about before the financial crisis remain among the main prospects now, they say, though the turmoil has altered the calculations about each person.
 They include Timothy F. Geithner, 47 and a protege of one of President Bill Clinton's Treasury secretaries, Robert E. Rubin. As president of the New York Federal Reserve, Mr. Geithner has had a supporting role in managing the crisis. Also mentioned are two Clinton cabinet veterans: Laura Tyson, 61, former chairwoman of both the White House National Economic Council and the Council of Economic Advisers, and Lawrence H. Summers, 53, Treasury secretary for Mr. Clinton's final year and a half. Both are economists and have been part of the core of advisers Mr. Obama has been consulting lately, along with Mr. Rubin and Paul A. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman.
 Some Democrats suggest the odds have improved for Mr. Summers. He won international respect at Treasury both as secretary and, before that, as Mr. Rubin's deputy, helping with financial contagions involving Mexico, Asia, Russia and Brazil. One mar on his resume came after he left government to lead Harvard University: he had to resign as president of Harvard after controversies that touched on race, gender and the environment -- all hot-button issues that probably would be revived by his critics should he be nominated.
 Yet news reports on the financial crisis have reflected well on Mr. Summers. During the Clinton administration, he tried to rein in Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's investment activities, unsuccessfully, and warned that the government-chartered companies could put taxpayers at risk in an economic downturn. More recently, before the financial crisis, Mr. Summers was writing and speaking on the need for strengthened financial regulation.
 Until the crisis, many Republicans seemed stumped about Mr. McCain's potential candidates for Treasury secretary, reflecting the fact that he has been little involved in fiscal and economic issues during his years in Congress.
 Also, some Republicans privately lament that their bench is shallower than it should be for the historically pro-business party. The least regarded Treasury secretaries of recent decades have been Republicans, including Mr. Bush's first two, the businessmen Paul H. O'Neill and John W. Snow. The Bush White House controlled policy, sidelining both men and diminishing their authority domestically and abroad. 
 Mr. Paulson took the job in 2006 only after extracting guarantees about his power. After initial frustrations in pushing for changes in Social Security and China trade policies, it has been only during the financial crisis that Mr. Paulson has emerged as a policy driver.
 Mr. McCain has not indicated whether he might keep Mr. Paulson.
 Early in 2007, Mr. McCain spoke with a friend and former Senate colleague, Phil Gramm, about the job, according to someone with knowledge of the conversation. But the crisis has not helped the case for Mr. Gramm, a 66-year-old free-market conservative and now a vice chairman of the Swiss bank UBS, especially after his remark that the United States is ''a nation of whiners'' in ''a mental recession.'' 
 Media reports have noted that Mr. Gramm, on the Senate Banking Committee before he retired from the Senate in late 2002, promoted financial deregulation and fought proposals for tighter oversight. Both Republicans and Democrats say he could not win confirmation in a Senate that is likely to remain under Democratic control next year.
 Speculation about a McCain Treasury secretary now centers on Robert B. Zoellick, 55, who was a top McCain policy adviser before he took his current job as president of the World Bank. Mr. Zoellick was a deputy secretary of state and the United States trade representative in the Bush administration, and before that a director of Goldman Sachs.
 Also mentioned is John A. Thain, 53, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange who has raised about $500,000 for the McCain campaign. He became chief executive of Merrill Lynch in December and this month orchestrated the bank's buyout by Bank of America. Republicans close to Mr. McCain say Mr. Thain was in that job too short a time to be blamed for Merrill's financial troubles. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama could tap Timothy F. Geithner, of the New York Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
Laura Tyson led the White House Council of Economic Advisers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES)
Lawrence H. Summers, who served as a Clinton Treasury secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
John McCain could consider Robert Zoellick of the World Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES)
 John A. Thain headed the New York Stock Exchange and Merrill Lynch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY BALES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); BANK FAILURES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NEWSWEEK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN THAIN (76%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



655 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Banks Hope An American Bailout Will Be Global

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York, Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong and Julia Werdigier from London.

 BODY:
PARIS -- The financial crisis that began in the United States spread to many corners of the globe. Now, the American bailout looks as if it is going global, too, a move that could raise its cost and intensify scrutiny by Congress and critics.
Foreign banks, which were initially excluded from the plan, lobbied successfully over the weekend to be able to sell the toxic American mortgage debt owned by their American units to the Treasury, getting the same treatment as United States banks.
On Sunday, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., indicated in a series of appearances on morning talk shows that an original proposal introduced on Saturday had been widened. ''It's a distinction without a difference whether it's a foreign or a U.S. one,'' he said in an interview with Fox News.
The prospect of being locked out of the bailout set off alarm bells among chief executives of overseas banks whose American affiliates also hold distressed mortgage-related assets, like Barclays and UBS. The original text provided access to the $700 billion bailout for any financial institution based in the United States. 
As the day wore on, some raised their concerns with the Treasury Department, arguing that foreign institutions were both big employers and major players in the American capital markets. By Saturday evening, the language had been changed to allow any financial institution ''having significant operations'' in the United States.
While Mr. Paulson has agreed with that argument, the Bush administration is also leaning on foreign governments to pitch in with bailout programs of their own as needed. ''We have a global financial system and we are talking very aggressively with other countries around the world, and encouraging them to do similar things, and I believe a number of them will,'' Mr. Paulson said on Sunday.
The request is expected to be discussed during a conference call among Group of 7 finance ministries scheduled for Sunday evening, a European official said.
Allowing foreign banks to participate in the federal rescue package has not yet drawn widespread scrutiny in Congress, where a number of lawmakers, including Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, have acknowledged that millions of American citizens do business with UBS, the Royal Bank of Scotland, and many other foreign-based banks in the United States.
But a number of lawmakers are wary that such an extension may worsen what could ultimately turn out to be a trillion-dollar bailout for Wall Street.
''I'm skeptical of the bailout, the whole bill is only a couple of pages long,'' said Representative Scott Garrett, Republican of New Jersey, who is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. As for the participation of foreign banks, Mr. Garrett said: ''I have a concern with it, they probably should be treated differently, but Congress is really not getting any say.''
Christopher Whalen, a managing partner at Institutional Risk Analytics, said that Mr. Paulson needed to justify why a wider bailout was in the national interest.
''Can you imagine the Congress floating a bailout for Deutsche Bank or UBS? It is the responsibility of the German or Swiss government,'' he said. ''We shouldn't be bailing them out.''
While politicians in the United States may emphasize the benefits for banks based overseas, the definition of what is a European or American bank has blurred in recent years with the growth of global giants like HSBC, Barclays and Deutsche Bank.
Deutsche Bank, for example, became a major player in the United States with its acquisition of Bankers Trust in 2001. It has written down more than $11 billion in investments linked to the subprime crisis.
Barclays, meanwhile, is on course to buy a significant portion of the North American operations of Lehman Brothers, the 158-year-old firm that filed for bankruptcy protection last week, helping to set off the global financial panic that forced Washington to act.
Gaining access to the relief was a top priority for European foreign financial institutions with banking operations in the United States, according to officials in industry and government.
They argued that the reputation of Wall Street and the United States government would suffer immensely if properly licensed foreign banks in the United States were shut out of the system.
''Who would open a bank again in the United States?'' asked one executive of a major European bank who has been following the discussions.
At the same time, it was unclear how much European governments would bow to the Treasury Department's encouragement to set up national programs to deal with their own vast mortgage problems. Real estate markets in Britain, Spain and Ireland have been particularly hard-hit as their own housing market bubbles -- which grew in tandem with America's -- have collapsed.
Other governments have struggled to get budget deficits under control in the last few years. The German government, for example, has discouraged talk of a stimulus package, and British officials said Sunday that they were not working on a plan like that of the United States.
Robert Kelly, chief executive of the Bank of New York Mellon, said the central bankers around the world would probably be scrutinizing the American bailout proposal. ''I would expect every finance minister is looking closely at what is happening in the United States, trying to hypothesize what the impact will be, and is thinking about the tools the Fed and Treasury have used,'' he said. ''I would not be surprised, and probably expect, some of those tools to be used in Europe as well.''
If the plan is approved in Congress and is signed into law, the benefits would be large for European banks with licensed operations in the United States, which incurred major losses from mortgage-linked securities.
UBS, the Swiss giant, has been among the hardest-hit institutions in the world; both its chairman and chief executive left amid more than $40 billion in write-downs. Even so, it still retains roughly $20 billion more in potential exposure to the troubled American housing market.
If a battle does develop in Congress over foreign participation, UBS, among others, is poised to make just these arguments. Officials at the Zurich-based giant point out the bank employs more than 30,000 Americans, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and owns two broker-dealers registered under United States laws, UBS Securities and UBS Financial Services, better known to Americans as the former Paine Webber unit.
''These are Americans who work in New York,'' said one executive who requested anonymity because the American plan was still in development. ''And they are working for a bank that was incorporated in the United States.'' One senior Wall Street executive said he believed that the proposal would apply to other institutions with regulated American entities. Credit Suisse, for example, includes the old First Boston Corporation, though that name was dropped years ago. He said the biggest issue being debated was what securities would be included in the proposal, and how the actual mechanism to buy them would work.
In Asia, the plan to purchase distressed assets drew little reaction over the weekend. Asian banks generally have not invested significant assets in American mortgage-backed securities.
The bigger question in Asia, bankers said, lies in how the American legislation will affect HSBC, the large British-based bank with significant operations in Asia. The bank's American subsidiary was a large buyer of mortgages over the last decade, and kept many of these mortgages on its books instead of trying to repackage and resell them as mortgage-backed securities.
Richard Lindsay, a spokesman for HSBC, said that senior management was still evaluating the situation and said it was a ''positive step forward but it won't solve the problems of an overleveraged industry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The world is watching Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr., fourth from left. With him at the G-7 meeting in Washington last April were, from left, James Flaherty, the finance minister of Canada
Christine Lagarde of France
Peer Steinbrueck of Germany
Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa of Italy
Fukushiro Nukaga of Japan
Alistair Darling of Britain
and Jean-Claude Juncker of Eurogroup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Angela Merkel of Germany has been critical of governments that resisted regulation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL GOTTSCHALK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C2) DRAWING (pg.C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); PEER STEINBRUECK (59%); ANGELA MERKEL (59%); JIM FLAHERTY (59%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); SCOTT GARRETT (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); ALISTAIR DARLING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (89%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



656 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Cash For Trash

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Some skeptics are calling Henry Paulson's $700 billion rescue plan for the U.S. financial system ''cash for trash.'' Others are calling the proposed legislation the Authorization for Use of Financial Force, after the Authorization for Use of Military Force, the infamous bill that gave the Bush administration the green light to invade Iraq.
 There's justice in the gibes. Everyone agrees that something major must be done. But Mr. Paulson is demanding extraordinary power for himself -- and for his successor -- to deploy taxpayers' money on behalf of a plan that, as far as I can see, doesn't make sense. 
 Some are saying that we should simply trust Mr. Paulson, because he's a smart guy who knows what he's doing. But that's only half true: he is a smart guy, but what, exactly, in the experience of the past year and a half -- a period during which Mr. Paulson repeatedly declared the financial crisis ''contained,'' and then offered a series of unsuccessful fixes -- justifies the belief that he knows what he's doing? He's making it up as he goes along, just like the rest of us.
 So let's try to think this through for ourselves. I have a four-step view of the financial crisis:
 1. The bursting of the housing bubble has led to a surge in defaults and foreclosures, which in turn has led to a plunge in the prices of mortgage-backed securities -- assets whose value ultimately comes from mortgage payments.
 2. These financial losses have left many financial institutions with too little capital -- too few assets compared with their debt. This problem is especially severe because everyone took on so much debt during the bubble years.
 3. Because financial institutions have too little capital relative to their debt, they haven't been able or willing to provide the credit the economy needs.
 4. Financial institutions have been trying to pay down their debt by selling assets, including those mortgage-backed securities, but this drives asset prices down and makes their financial position even worse. This vicious circle is what some call the ''paradox of deleveraging.'' 
 The Paulson plan calls for the federal government to buy up $700 billion worth of troubled assets, mainly mortgage-backed securities. How does this resolve the crisis?
 Well, it might -- might -- break the vicious circle of deleveraging, step 4 in my capsule description. Even that isn't clear: the prices of many assets, not just those the Treasury proposes to buy, are under pressure. And even if the vicious circle is limited, the financial system will still be crippled by inadequate capital.
 Or rather, it will be crippled by inadequate capital unless the federal government hugely overpays for the assets it buys, giving financial firms -- and their stockholders and executives -- a giant windfall at taxpayer expense. Did I mention that I'm not happy with this plan?
 The logic of the crisis seems to call for an intervention, not at step 4, but at step 2: the financial system needs more capital. And if the government is going to provide capital to financial firms, it should get what people who provide capital are entitled to -- a share in ownership, so that all the gains if the rescue plan works don't go to the people who made the mess in the first place. 
 That's what happened in the savings and loan crisis: the feds took over ownership of the bad banks, not just their bad assets. It's also what happened with Fannie and Freddie. (And by the way, that rescue has done what it was supposed to. Mortgage interest rates have come down sharply since the federal takeover.)
 But Mr. Paulson insists that he wants a ''clean'' plan. ''Clean,'' in this context, means a taxpayer-financed bailout with no strings attached -- no quid pro quo on the part of those being bailed out. Why is that a good thing? Add to this the fact that Mr. Paulson is also demanding dictatorial authority, plus immunity from review ''by any court of law or any administrative agency,'' and this adds up to an unacceptable proposal.
 I'm aware that Congress is under enormous pressure to agree to the Paulson plan in the next few days, with at most a few modifications that make it slightly less bad. Basically, after having spent a year and a half telling everyone that things were under control, the Bush administration says that the sky is falling, and that to save the world we have to do exactly what it says now now now.
 But I'd urge Congress to pause for a minute, take a deep breath, and try to seriously rework the structure of the plan, making it a plan that addresses the real problem. Don't let yourself be railroaded -- if this plan goes through in anything like its current form, we'll all be very sorry in the not-too-distant future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); FORECLOSURE (69%); HOUSING MARKET (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



657 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Policies Sound the Same, But Goals Are Different

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The economic crisis has snapped voters' attention back to the alternative visions of Senators Barack Obama and John McCain, which sometimes sound the same, but are not.
 Mr. Obama promises ''change.''
 Mr. McCain promises ''reform.''
 Those words represent governing agendas with overlapping features but divergent aims. And for all the recriminations about campaign ''lies,'' each candidate can offer credible arguments rooted in his philosophy and track record. 
 Each vision responds to a different source of public discontent with Washington. That partly explains why the race remains so close, and why the stakes are so high for candidate debates that begin Friday in Mississippi. 
 2 Sources of Gloom
 In linking Mr. McCain to President Bush, Mr. Obama targets the pre-eminent symbol of voters' unhappiness. The staunch free-market philosophy shared by leading Republicans has lost its luster, leaving Americans jittery about their savings and both parties racing to bail out Wall Street. 
 In characteristic Democratic fashion, Mr. Obama would temper free-market zeal with more government regulation, a redistribution of the tax burden to benefit middle- and working-class families at the expense of the affluent, and increased federal spending on health care, education, energy and infrastructure. He offers a change in ideology. 
 By contrast, Mr. McCain seeks to tap voters' anger at the way Washington works or doesn't work, with its partisan rancor, nonstop money chase and failure to tackle national problems. The anger is apparent in dismal approval ratings for the Democratic Congress and Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. McCain has displayed a rare talent and inclination for bucking partisan orthodoxy in search of solutions, most conspicuously in his successful push for campaign finance reform and his unsuccessful push for comprehensive new immigration legislation. The reform he offers points largely toward the process of governing and the possibility of bipartisan breakthroughs on such intractable issues as immigration, climate change and potential insolvency of Medicare and Social Security. 
 For the millions of Americans who will tune in to the first McCain-Obama debate from the University of Mississippi in Oxford, pitting change in direction against change in political process is an imperfect choice. ''The people want both,'' said William Galston, a former White House aide in the Clinton administration. 
 The Difficult Road
 Mr. McCain's approach carries at least two vulnerabilities. One is whether commitments he made to conservatives in primaries, especially on tax cuts, and the rancorous general election campaign would permit him to achieve bipartisan compromises as president. 
 His more immediate challenge is convincing voters that he would address their everyday challenges; on health care, for example, he echoes Mr. Bush in proposing to increase rather than temper reliance on market forces. ''McCain's problem is that he's offering reform without the changes that would enhance economic security,'' Mr. Galston said. 
 The comparatively inexperienced Mr. Obama must convince voters he can deliver the changes that polls show they want. To that end he calls for moving past the partisanship of the baby boom political generation. 
 On health care, Mr. Obama's decision to eschew a universal coverage mandate might make it easier to open a dialogue with Republicans. But Washington has repeatedly proved how much easier it is to block action than achieve it on this front.
 And recent presidential contests suggest the electorate's philosophical instincts lie closer, if only slightly, to those of Republicans.
 Mr. Obama is vulnerable to the charge of being ''too liberal, too radical a turn to the left,'' said former Representative Vin Weber, a Republican. ''It's really a big historical question. America hasn't clearly voted for a 'left turn' since Roosevelt.''
 One wild card that's difficult to factor in polls: the role of Mr. Obama's race in how swing voters resolve their uncertainties. Their chance to view the 47-year-old African-American Democrat alongside the 72-year-old white Republican, who represents a more familiar leadership archetype, may prove more consequential than either man's debate performance.
 ''The country wants change,'' argued Chris Lehane, a former adviser to Vice President Al Gore. ''Obama, by his policies, his message, his very appearance, represents real change. I think the public is just looking for ways for them to trust in and believe in Obama's change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FAMILY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); MEDICARE (67%); IMMIGRATION (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



658 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: McCain and Obama Urge Greater Oversight in a Financial Bailout Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD and MICHAEL COOPER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama warned Sunday that there should be more oversight built into the government's $700 billion plan to stabilize the financial markets but said the potentially enormous expenditure would not force them to scale back their ambitious governing agendas. 
 Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, and Mr. Obama, his Democratic rival, agreed in separate interviews that steps should be taken to ensure taxpayer dollars are not used to enrich the executives of troubled financial firms bailed out by the government. They echoed each other in assessing the threat from the financial crisis as severe enough to warrant government intervention.
 But Mr. McCain said in an interview here with CNBC and The New York Times that he would press on with his plan to extend the Bush tax cuts and to cut others. Contrary to the warnings of fiscal analysts, he said he believed he could do so and balance the federal budget, which was falling deeper into deficit even before the financial crisis, by the end of his first term. 
 ''I believe we can still balance the budget,'' he said. ''I think that it is restraint of spending, and I think it's growth of government and the economy, and the recovery of our economy. And anything you do that would take more money from the American people who are hurting more now, I think, would be a serious mistake.'' 
 Mr. McCain also stuck by his support for allowing workers to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes in stocks and bonds, an approach that Democrats call privatization and that Mr. Obama has used to suggest Mr. McCain would subject retirees to excessive market risk.
 In a separate interview earlier in the day, Mr. Obama said that despite the huge new government obligation, he would press ahead with his plans to overhaul the health care system to insure more people, make college tuition more affordable, give a tax cut to the middle class and raise taxes on those making over $250,000 a year. 
 ''The problem that we have,'' Mr. Obama said, ''in part has to do with wages and incomes that have been flat. And so homeowners and ordinary families out there have been working very hard, but it's tough for them to pay the bills and stay afloat with rising gas prices and health care.
 ''So if we don't address our long-term competitiveness, if we don't address some of the inequities in the tax code, if we're not addressing some of the things that weakened the family budget, then we're not, over the long term, going to solve these larger problems in the financial markets.''
 Mr. McCain has made speeches and broadcast television commercials recently that highlight Mr. Obama's ties to former leaders of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the mortgage giants at the center of the financial crisis. 
 Mr. McCain has struck a notably populist tone in addressing the crisis, and in the interview, he set a specific limit on compensation for executives at firms that receive federal assistance. ''But the major point,'' he said, ''is that no C.E.O. of any corporation or business that is bailed out by us, that is rescued by American tax dollars, should receive any more than the highest paid person in the federal government.''
 Mr. Obama continued to assail the philosophy of excessive deregulation that he said was the root cause of the crisis and made clear that the aftermath should include a new regulatory approach. 
 The deepening financial crisis and the shifting government response to it have challenged both presidential candidates for more than a week, as they struggled to react to a situation that seemed to change each day. In the interviews, they gave some of their most detailed views of the crisis to date.
 Mr. Obama warned that the bailout should not be a ''blank check'' and called for tighter regulation of the financial industry, suggesting he would support imposing federal capital requirements on investment firms. He also emphasized that the plan would have to include more relief for homeowners and distressed communities, a demand being made by Democrats in Congress.
 ''Regardless of how we got there,'' he said, ''we now have a situation where people's jobs, people's savings, people's retirement accounts, their job security, all that is at risk. And so we've got to take some firm and decisive steps.''
 Mr. McCain, like Mr. Obama, said an oversight board should be created to monitor how the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., administers the bailout, which calls for the federal government to take toxic assets off troubled financial firms' hands. 
 ''I respect and admire Secretary Paulson, but as far as I can tell, we're placing all those responsibilities in the hands of one person,'' Mr. McCain said. ''I think we need to appoint an oversight board of the most respected people in America, such as maybe Warren Buffett, who's a Obama supporter; Mitt Romney, Mike Bloomberg, so that there can be some kind of oversight of, instead of just putting all this responsibility on a person who may be gone in four months.''
 Mr. McCain, who has been trying to distance himself from the Bush administration while proposing to continue many of its economic policies, tried Sunday to strike several bipartisan notes. 
 In a separate interview on ''60 Minutes'' on CBS, he mentioned that he would like to see Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who is the attorney general of New York, take over as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission from Christopher Cox, whose ouster he has called for. 
 He also said on ''60 Minutes'' that he would remove the political operation from his White House and put it in the Republican National Committee.
 The financial crisis and the proposed bailout have become fodder for a heated back and forth in the presidential campaign. Mr. Obama has cast Mr. McCain as a longtime proponent of the kind of deregulation that he says led to the crisis; Mr. McCain has cast Mr. Obama as lacking in the leadership qualities needed in a time of crisis. 
 Mr. Obama offered guarded praise of how Mr. Paulson is handing the crisis. He stopped short of pledging to keep him in place in an Obama administration, but he said that the gravity of the turmoil in the nation's financial markets was so serious that continuity was important to avert further crisis. 
 ''Getting a new person to start juggling those balls is going to be tricky,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Regardless of who wins the election, the issue of transition to the next administration is going to be very important. And it's going to have to be executed with a spirit of bipartisanship and cooperation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John McCain and Barack Obama said in interviews on Sunday that a $700 billion plan to stabilize the financial markets would not force them to scale back their ambitious governing agendas. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT TO RIGHT BY, TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); FAMILY (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); TUITION FEES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); HEALTH CARE (69%); BONDS (67%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (62%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008



659 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Ceremony Minded Its Own Business, Not the World's

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
It's always a little disconcerting -- and even irritating -- when stars at awards shows, dripping in Chopard jewelry and self-regard, try to banter about current events. But there is at least one reassuring point to it: if television actors feel free to make light of dark events then things must not yet be that bad. It's when comedians stay silent that you know things are really dire -- think of the frothy escapist Busby Berkeley musicals and screwball comedies that distracted audiences during the Great Depression.
 By that standard, then, Sunday night's 60th Primetime Emmy Awards were not all that reassuring. The funniest stars there -- Stephen Colbert, Ricky Gervais and Steve Martin -- were very funny but didn't make any jokes about the looming financial crisis. Even Alec Baldwin, not known for restraint, held back. Tina Fey did, though, thank NBC for sticking with her show despite ''the turkey burger economy.'' 
 It was the unamusing Howie Mandel, the host of the NBC game show ''Deal or No Deal,'' who took it head on.
 He and his four fellow reality-show M.C.'s opened the show by telling the audience they had no prepared material. ''It's like we are on Sarah Palin's Bridge to Nowhere,'' Mr. Mandel mugged. The audience laughed less when Mr. Mandel went on to the Treasury Department's $700 billion bail-out proposal -- the ultimate ''Deal or No Deal'' -- saying, ''The government can't even bail us out of this.''
 Live award shows always have found it awkward hitting the right note in uncertain times -- the contrast between the glitz and celebrity self-celebration and war or hurricane devastation is too acute. 
 (The Emmys were delayed twice after Sept. 11; they were low-key and mournful when they did take place that November, and included the singing of ''America the Beautiful.'')
 This year, the awards show tried for a self-deprecating tone, poking fun at television (Josh Groban singing a medley of television theme songs like ''Love Boat'' and ''Happy Days'') while keeping references to the real world solemn and subdued. Oprah Winfrey, who opened the show, was somber about both. ''These have not been easy times in the world of television, or in the world generally for that matter,'' she said.
 Political commentary, and there was quite a bit of it, focused on the presidential elections, and was delicately put. Laura Linney, accepting her award for the HBO mini-series ''John Adams,'' took a small swipe at the Republican convention for mocking Senator Barack Obama's resume. She thanked ''the 'community organizers' that helped form our country.'' Mr. Colbert and Jon Stewart made a more coy reference to the presidential contest. While Mr. Stewart spoke, Mr. Colbert munched on prunes, and deadpanned ''Right now America needs a prune.'' Lest anyone miss the metaphor for Senator John McCain he added, ''This dried-up old prune has the experience we need.''
 But mostly, there were earnest footnotes throughout the evening, including a cameo by Tommy Smothers, who said that there was nothing scarier than watching ''ignorance in action.'' Martin Sheen, from a replica of his old ''West Wing'' set, implored viewers to vote.
 Oddly, there were not many jokes about Governor Palin. Ryan Seacrest, one of the M.C.'s, who also interviewed Ms. Fey for the red-carpet ceremony on E!, didn't even mention the actress's recent impersonation of the Alaska governor on ''Saturday Night Live.'' At the end, Ms. Fey thanked Mr. Seacrest for not mentioning Ms. Palin. ''I was told not to,'' he replied flatly. 
 It could be that Hollywood stars are afraid to further inflame the right by being snooty about their gun-toting heroines. Or they worry about their own glass houses. It seems that qualifications aren't a big deal in show business, either: even Lauren Conrad, a cast member of the reality show ''The Hills,'' was a presenter. 
 All genres of reality were on display at the Emmys except, of course, the one keeping the nation -- and that includes the entertainment industry -- on the verge of an economic breakdown. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Tom Bergeron, Heidi Klum and Howie Mandel at the opening of an Emmy Awards show that had five hosts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); ELECTIONS (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%); HURRICANES (50%)

PERSON: HOWIE MANDEL (89%); STEPHEN COLBERT (68%); ALEC BALDWIN (58%); TINA FEY (52%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%); SARAH PALIN (50%); HEIDI KLUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



660 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Housing Experts Say Bailout Proposal May Do Little for Homeowners

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even if the Treasury Department reaches agreement with Democratic leaders in Congress on its $700 billion proposal to bail out for the mortgage industry, housing experts warned on Monday that the plan might do little to help troubled borrowers stay in their houses. 
 As House and Senate lawmakers struggled to reach a deal with the Bush administration, one of the most vexing battles was how much the plan should balance a rescue of financial institutions with a rescue of homeowners facing foreclosure. 
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, has put top priority on bailing out financial institutions by buying up soured mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, so banks and other lenders can clean up their balance sheets and get back to normal lending.
 But Democrats are insisting that the Treasury Department also help restructure many of those loans, by lowering the interest rate or the loan amount, to make the mortgages affordable and reduce the number of people who lose their homes through foreclosure.
 The Bush administration has been lukewarm to that idea, but many housing and mortgage experts say the government would have a difficult time modifying mortgages even if it were eager to do so.
 The vast majority of subprime mortgages -- 90 percent or more, by some estimates -- are inside giant pools, or trusts, which have in turn sold bonds with different levels of seniority to institutional investors around the world. 
 Even if the government acquires hundreds of billions of dollars worth of mortgage-backed securities, finance experts say, the Treasury Department would be unlikely to acquire all the bonds tied to a particular mortgage pool. And if the government did not own all those bonds, it might not have the power to demand changes in the underlying mortgages.
 ''We are literally spending hundreds of billions of dollars on subsidies for financial institutions,'' said Christopher Mayer, a professor of real estate finance and vice dean at the Columbia School of Business. ''This won't do anything to help the housing market. This plan is about buying mortgage-backed securities, not mortgages, and there is a big difference.''
 Amanda D. Darwin, a partner at the law firm of Nixon Peabody who specializes in both bankruptcy and securities law, said the Treasury Department was likely to become bogged down in legal problems if it tried any relief more radical than the cautious framework adopted earlier this year by the American Securitization Forum, an industry group. 
 ''In order to modify loans beyond that framework, you have to have the consent of 100 percent of the holders of the affected securities,'' Ms. Darwin said. And some of those investors, especially those holding senior securities that are shielded from many of the losses, may not want to sell out or make concessions.
 Because of that problem, House and Senate Democrats are also demanding that the final bill change the bankruptcy law to give troubled homeowners more bargaining power with their lenders.
 Proposals put forward by Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate banking committee, would allow bankruptcy judges to reduce a person's loan amount or interest rate in much the way that bankruptcy judges decide how much money most other creditors receive.
 Under current law, bankruptcy courts have long been prohibited from touching the terms of mortgages on a person's primary residence.
 Community advocates and consumer groups have argued for months that changing the law would cut through the tangle of legal conflicts involving most mortgages and give borrowers a big increase in their bargaining power with lenders.
 ''That is by orders of magnitude the best thing that can be done to keep people in their homes,'' said Eric Stein, senior vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit group based in North Carolina. 
 On Monday, 30 community and consumer groups from around the country sent an open letter to lawmakers to press their case.
 ''It is an illusion to assume that bailing out financial institutions is the same thing as providing relief to foreclosure-plagued American homeowners,'' said the groups, which included the Consumers Union, the National Council of La Raza and the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. ''The only way to make sure that relief is achieved is to give Main Street Americans what they need: Chapter 13 bankruptcy relief.''
 But Mr. Paulson and the Bush administration remain firmly opposed to the proposal, known informally as a ''cram-down,'' saying it would frighten even more investors away from the mortgage market.
 The banking and securities industries, meanwhile, are fighting the change with all their might, as they did when it came up with the housing bill that was adopted in July. 
 ''Authorizing write-downs of mortgages by bankruptcy judges will increase the risks of mortgage lending at a time when the market is already struggling, and this will harm consumers,'' wrote Floyd E. Stoner, a top lobbyist for the American Banking Association, in a statement on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (65%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: NIXON PEABODY LLP (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



661 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: A Bailout Above The Law

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook

 BODY:
The passage is stunning.
 ''Decisions by the Secretary pursuant to the authority of this Act are non-reviewable and committed to agency discretion, and may not be reviewed by any court of law or any administrative agency,'' the original draft of the proposed bill says. 
 And with those words, the Treasury secretary -- whoever that may be in a few months -- will be with vested with perhaps the most incredible powers ever bestowed on one person over the economic and financial life of the nation. It is the financial equivalent of the Patriot Act. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.'s $700 billion proposal to bail out Wall Street is both the biggest rescue and the most amazing power grab in the history of the American economy. 
 In many ways, it is classic Wall Street: a big, bold roll of the dice that one trade can save the day. But at the same time, the hypocrisy is thick. The lack of transparency and oversight that got our financial system in trouble in the first place seems written directly into the proposed bill, known as TARP, or the Troubled Asset Relief Program. 
 Just take a look at the original draft: ''The Secretary is authorized to take such actions as the Secretary deems necessary to carry out the authorities in this act,'' the proposed bill read when it was first presented to Congress, ''without regard to any other provision of law regarding public contracts.'' 
 It goes on to say, ''Any funds expended for actions authorized by this Act, including the payment of administrative expenses, shall be deemed appropriated at the time of such expenditure.'' 
 Slowly but surely, as new versions of the bill are making the rounds in Washington, some legislators are pressing to include new language to give them at least a modicum of oversight. Democrats have complained that the bill gives the Treasury Department ''a blank check'' -- and they're right. 
 But given the rush to push the bill through, even if Congress cobbles together some oversight language, it will almost surely be inadequate. Joshua Rosner, a managing director at Graham Fisher & Company, says TARP should stand for ''Total Abdication of Responsibility to the Public.'' He says it is ''a clear abdication of all Congressional oversight and fiscal authorities to a secretary of Treasury that has bungled this crisis from the beginning.'' 
 He argues that the bill grants ''greater powers to the secretary of the Treasury than even the president enjoys.'' 
 The bigger issue is that the bill effectively creates protections not just for the Treasury, but for the executives on Wall Street who created this near Armageddon. Mr. Rosner says that the draft bill ''prevents judicial review that could allow the protection of decisions that create false marks, hide prior marks, or could be used to prevent civil or criminal prosecution in situations where a management knowingly provided false marks that aided the growth of this crisis of confidence.'' 
 False marks -- using mark-to-market accounting to hide the true value of security, rather than disclose it honestly -- has a lot to do with why Jeffrey Skilling, the former Enron chief executive, is in jail. 
 It is absolutely true, of course, that Mr. Paulson needed to do something. By Thursday afternoon, less than 48 hours after the bailout of the American International Group, the financial system was near meltdown. The mere rumor that Mr. Paulson and the Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke were devising a big bailout fund cause the stock market to soar.
 In truth, I'm not sure I agree with Mr. Rosner's assessment of Mr. Paulson's job performance. I think he is one of the most competent Treasury secretaries we've ever had, and it is hard to imagine anyone else handling this crisis any better. His predecessors, who lacked his grounding in the world of high finance, would most likely have been like deer in headlights. 
 And when Mr. Paulson says, as he did on all the talk shows on Sunday, ''I hate the fact that we have to do it, but it's better than the alternative,'' I believe him. (It would have looked better, of course, if he had come up with this plan before it looked as if his former firm, Goldman Sachs, was in jeopardy.) 
 But the question on the table now is whether the government's latest response to this crisis -- the way it has been constructed, and frankly, the way it is being crammed down everyone's throat at the eleventh hour -- is the right approach. Already the market has its doubts; just look at its performance on Monday.
 Let put aside the bill's most offensive aspect -- the raw power it gives the Treasury Department, and the lack of oversight it provides -- and take a closer look at the practicalities. First off, there is nothing in the bill that will prevent these problems from happening again. The bill doesn't address adding greater transparency in investments in subprime loans and securities and credit derivatives, which led directly to the debacles at Lehman and A.I.G. The bill does nothing to rein in the credit-default swap market, which has turned out to be the weapon of financial mass destruction that Warren Buffett always said it was.
 Nor are the Democrats going to help matters with their own changes. It is all well and good that they hope to use the bill to restrain executive compensation, and add stipulations to help people in danger of losing their homes. But nothing the Democrats have suggested so far tackles the core issues of oversight, transparency or regulation. 
 Of course, the sickest part is that Wall Street is lining up at the trough for a piece of the action, lobbying to run some of the $700 billion fund -- and take huge fees -- for their own mess. 
 However the bailout is structured, no matter what safeguards are put in place, it is likely to be a conflicted mess. How can we possibly trust that the price the government agrees to buy the securities will be fair? 
 And then there is the jockeying among the banks so they can sell their absolute worst stuff to the government -- even loans that have nothing to do with mortgages -- and change the rules in the process. The Financial Services Roundtable, which represents big financial services companies, wrote an e-mail message to members on Sunday suggesting, laughably, that ''the government bid for the assets should not count as a mark-to-market value for accounting purposes.'' 
 In other words, if the government drives a hard bargain -- as it should -- the banks don't have to take write-downs based on the price the feds pay to take junk off their balance sheets.
 Watching Wall Street double-dip makes even some in the industry's top tier cringe. 
 ''Maybe I should move to Russia,'' one titan of finance said to me. ''It's obscene, the whole thing. I'm embarrassed for myself.''
 Actually, I've got a better suggestion: Venezuela. 
 On Friday last week, Hugo Chavez, the Socialist president of Venezuela, gave a speech in Caracas where, according to Reuters, he said, ''The United States has spent $900 billion, four times what the Venezuela produces in a year, to try to boost the troubled finance system and housing market.'' 
 Gloating, he added: ''They have criticized me, especially in the United States, for nationalizing a great company, CANTV, that didn't even cost $1.5 billion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Last week, Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, gave a speech in which he marveled at the size of the financial bailout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS COEX/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US PATRIOT ACT (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



662 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Retirees Filling The Front Line In Market Fears

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND and LOUIS UCHITELLE; Malcolm Gay and Ana Facio Contreras contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Older Americans with investments are among the hardest hit by the turmoil in the financial markets and have the least opportunity to recover.
 As companies have switched from fixed pensions to 401(k) accounts, retirees risk losing big chunks of their wealth and income in a single day's trading, as many have in the last month. 
 ''There's a terrified older population out there,'' said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''If you're 45 and the market goes down, it bothers you, but it comes back. But if you're retired or about to retire, you might have to sell your assets before they have a chance to recover. And people don't have the luxury of being in bonds because they don't yield enough for how long we live.''
 Today's retirees have less money in savings, longer life expectancies and greater exposure to market risk than any retirees since World War II. Even before the last week of turmoil, 39 percent of retirees said they expected to outlive their savings, up from 29 percent in 2007, according to a survey by the Employee Benefit Research Institute, an industry-sponsored group in Washington. 
 ''This really highlights the new world of retirement,'' said Richard Johnson, a principal research associate at the Urban Institute in Washington. ''It's a much riskier world for retirees, because people don't have defined-benefit plans. They have pots of money and they have to worry about making it last.'' 
 Carol J. Emerson, 65, sees herself as particularly vulnerable. Her annual income of $50,000 comes almost entirely from dividends, and she says she is worried that as her stocks decline, some of those dividends will fall, too. 
 ''If I were guaranteed that the dividend would remain unchanged, I could ignore that the underlying value of my stocks has eroded,'' she said. ''But that is not the way it works. If the value of the stocks doesn't go up again, there are not a lot of companies that can keep on paying a 16 percent dividend.'' 
 Nevertheless, Ms. Emerson decided to push ahead last week with the rebuilding of her sun porch in Ventura, Calif., not wanting to endure any longer the discomfort of life in a mobile home with a leaky and rusting porch.
 ''I don't obsess about what is happening, but it is always in the back of my mind,'' Ms. Emerson said, adding that she would cancel the $30,000 project if she lost faith that stocks would rebound in her lifetime.
 ''I can sustain the ups and downs, as long as the downs are followed by ups,'' Ms. Emerson said, ''but I cannot sustain a constant slow erosion. I am assuming, despite all the terrible news, that somehow things will get better.''
 Older people with few assets, including the one-third of retirees who rely on Social Security for 90 percent or more of their income, may not suffer directly from the decline in the stock market, but they feel the pain of higher gas and food prices and reductions in volunteer services like Meals on Wheels, which have been curtailed because of fuel costs. 
 The collapse of the housing market has hit older homeowners. According to the Center for Retirement Research, Americans over age 63 pulled $300 billion out of their home equity through refinancing from 2001 to 2006, lowering their net worth. 
 Surveys by AARP, the Transamerica Center for Retirement Studies and the Employee Benefit Research Institute have found that more workers nearing retirement age are putting off their plans to retire, curtailing contributions to their 401(k) accounts and borrowing from the accounts to pay for living expenses, including credit card and mortgage debt. 
 After three decades of decline, a higher percentage of Americans older than 55 are now working than at any time since 1970, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. Some are working because they want to, but many because they need to. 
 The McKinsey Global Institute reported in June that the typical worker would have to work to age 70 to maintain his or her standard of living in retirement. 
 Mary O'Connell, 76, and her husband, S. F., 78, of St. Peters, Mo., retired without pensions and with meager benefits from Social Security, counting on income from four stocks. But the bulk of the stock was in Bank of America, whose stock has dropped by nearly a third since the start of the year, including 10 percent last week. ''It's been horrible,'' Ms. O'Connell said. 
 ''I can't cash anything because the value has deteriorated so much that I would lose money. And even if I did I'd face capital gains tax that would wipe out what little bit I'd get.'' 
 At the same time, she said, her ''safe'' investments -- her certificates of deposit -- have rolled over to lower interest rates, reducing a reliable stream of income. 
 Ms. O'Connell said she did not follow her stocks too closely because it would only make her depressed. ''We figure we worked all our lives,'' she said. ''This is something we wanted to enjoy. Now that's taken away from us.''
 For many older people, last week's turmoil on Wall Street was just the latest in a series of shocks that have eroded their stability. 
 When Robert Waskover, 79, was asked how the economy was affecting him, the first thing he mentioned was gas prices. 
 Mr. Waskover, who sells insurance part time in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., said he and his wife, Barbara, 75, were being squeezed from all sides: rising expenses for gas, food and health care; lower income from his business; and the collapse in value of their home and stock portfolio. 
 Mr. Waskover described a one-two punch from the economy. First, his expenses started to exceed his income, so he began occasionally selling some of his stock. Then the stock prices fell, so any sale meant taking a loss. ''Now I'm looking to see if I can take a bridge loan on the house so I can draw on that,'' he said. ''We've been watching every penny. And everything keeps going up and up.'' 
 Corlette McShea, 61, of Libertyville, Ill., is one of those worried about how she will live in retirement. Ms. McShea, who works nearly full time for a market research company, has scrimped to build a nest egg -- buying her house for cash after a divorce settlement, building a 401(k) account and buying a seven-year, $30,000 annuity from the American International Group. 
 Then she discovered the annuity was not protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. As A.I.G. teetered this month, Ms. McShea tried to call the number given to her for A.I.G. ''Their office is in Texas, so after the hurricane, the office is not even open so I couldn't talk to anybody,'' she said. She was willing to pay a penalty for early withdrawal, she said, but at 61, ''how do you recoup any of this?'' 
 At the same time, other parts of the economy are closing in around her. Though her home is paid off, her property taxes have risen to nearly $14,000 a year, up from $5,000 when she bought the house 10 years ago. She was counting on the annuity to pay the taxes. 
 ''What a terrible situation that you have a house that is paid for and you can't even afford to stay in it because the real estate taxes keep going up,'' she said. ''In my neighborhood, there's houses up and down the street that are for sale and not even an offer. I'm stuck. I'm stuck with the house; I don't know what my investments are doing; and here's this annuity with A.I.G. that is in jeopardy. Every way I look, I'm feeling kind of scared and panicked.''
 Younger people, of course, have been feeling the market's pain as well. But for some -- including those who have felt priced out of the housing market -- the dips mean a chance to get in. For older people, there is no upside to the distress. ''They've got to adjust their expectations of retirement,'' said Martin Baily, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''The market will recover, but you won't.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary O'Connell, 76, of St. Peters, Mo., has no pension and counts on income from four stocks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Robert Waskover, 79, of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., said that gasoline costs and less income from his business have hurt him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RICKSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Alicia H. Munnell is director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (83%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%); URBAN INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



663 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Japan Party Picks Leader Set to Become Next Premier

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Taro Aso, an outspoken conservative who campaigned with promises to stimulate Japan's flagging economy, was chosen Monday by the governing Liberal Democratic Party to become the next prime minister. 
 Mr. Aso, a former foreign minister, easily won two-thirds of the vote for the presidency of the party, beating four other candidates, including the first woman to seek the job. The party's control of the lower house of Parliament virtually ensures that he will replace Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda in a parliamentary session on Wednesday.
 The party is counting on Mr. Aso, 68, to lead it out of its worst crisis in a half-century of rule, after two prime ministers stepped down in a year amid dismal approval ratings. 
 In a race that was his to lose, Mr. Aso (pronounced ah-so) focused on bread-and-butter economic issues, promising tax cuts aimed at increasing corporate and individual spending. 
 A self-proclaimed hawk who has sometimes angered Asian neighbors, Mr. Aso is widely seen here as a pragmatist who shuns a rigidly right-wing agenda. The scion of a wealthy industrialist family, he is also a fan of Japan's manga cartoons and has regularly topped national surveys for prime minister.
 The question is whether Mr. Aso can woo back Japan's disillusioned voters ahead of a crucial national election expected as soon as November. The Liberal Democrats are counting on Mr. Aso to restore public support to a party staggering from his predecessors' resignations, a newly powerful opposition, and a slumping economy.
 In a brief acceptance speech, Mr. Aso spoke in grave tones of leading the party and Japan as a personal ''mission,'' reflecting his longstanding ambition to gain his nation's highest office. He vowed to focus on winning the election and keeping the Liberal Democrats in power.
 He will take office at a time when Japan, the world's second-largest economy, after the United States, has played a minor role in the response to Wall Street's turmoil.
 Mr. Aso has said that Japan, which has so far been relatively unscathed by the unfolding financial crisis, needed to stimulate its economy to pick up some of the slack in the global economy.
 ''America could face a financial crisis that rivals the Great Depression,'' Mr. Aso said in a speech on Saturday. ''Japan has to take action by improving its economy in order to revive domestic demand.''
 Political analysts say elections for the lower house, which could be set for October, will offer an immediate test to Mr. Aso's ability to galvanize the splintered Liberal Democrats and find a message that resonates with Japan's disillusioned electorate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (92%); YASUO FUKUDA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



664 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: How Sweden Handled a Financial Crisis Without Burdening Taxpayers

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

 BODY:
A banking system in crisis after the collapse of a housing bubble. An economy hemorrhaging jobs. A market-oriented government struggling to stem the panic. Sound familiar?
 It does to Sweden. The country was so far in the hole in 1992 -- after years of imprudent regulation, short-sighted economic policy and the end of its property boom -- that its banking system was, for all practical purposes, insolvent.
 But Sweden took a different course than the one now being proposed by the United States Treasury. And Swedish officials say there are lessons from their own nightmare that Washington may be missing. 
 Sweden did not just bail out its financial institutions by having the government take over the bad debts. It extracted pounds of flesh from bank shareholders before writing checks. Banks had to write down losses and issue warrants to the government.
 That strategy held banks responsible and turned the government into an owner. When distressed assets were sold, the profits flowed to taxpayers, and the government was able to recoup more money later by selling its shares in the companies as well. 
 ''If I go into a bank,'' said Bo Lundgren, who was Sweden's finance minister at the time, ''I'd rather get equity so that there is some upside for the taxpayer.''
 Sweden spent 4 percent of its gross domestic product, or 65 billion kronor, the equivalent of $11.7 billion at the time, or $18.3 billion in today's dollars, to rescue ailing banks. That is slightly less, proportionate to the national economy, than the $700 billion, or roughly 5 percent of gross domestic product, that the Bush administration estimates its own move will cost in the United States.
 But the final cost to Sweden ended up being less than 2 percent of its G.D.P. Some officials say they believe it was closer to zero, depending on how certain rates of return are calculated.
 The tumultuous events of the last few weeks have produced a lot of tight-lipped nods in Stockholm. Mr. Lundgren even made the rounds in New York in early September, explaining what the country did in the early 1990s.
 A few American commentators have proposed that the United States government extract equity from banks as a price for their rescue. But it does not seem to be under serious consideration yet in the Bush administration or Congress.
 The reason is not quite clear. The government has already swapped its sovereign guarantee for equity in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance institutions, and the American International Group, the global insurance giant.
 Putting taxpayers on the hook without anything in return could be a mistake, said Urban Backstrom, a senior Swedish finance ministry official at the time. ''The public will not support a plan if you leave the former shareholders with anything,'' he said.
 The Swedish crisis had strikingly similar origins to the American one, and its neighbors, Norway and Finland, were hobbled to the point of needing a government bailout to escape the morass as well.
 Financial deregulation in the 1980s fed a frenzy of real estate lending by Sweden's banks, which did not worry enough about whether the value of their collateral might evaporate in tougher times.
 Property prices imploded. The bubble deflated fast in 1991 and 1992. A vain effort to defend Sweden's currency, the krona, caused overnight interest rates to spike at one point to 500 percent. The Swedish economy contracted for two consecutive years after a long expansion, and unemployment, at 3 percent in 1990, quadrupled in three years.
 After a series of bank failures and ad hoc solutions, the moment of truth arrived in September 1992, when the government of Prime Minister Carl Bildt decided it was time to clear the decks.
 Standing shoulder-to-shoulder with the opposition center-left, Mr. Bildt's conservative government announced that the Swedish state would guarantee all bank deposits and creditors of the nation's 114 banks. Sweden formed a new agency to supervise institutions that needed recapitalization, and another that sold off the assets, mainly real estate, that the banks held as collateral.
 Sweden told its banks to write down their losses promptly before coming to the state for recapitalization. Facing its own problem later in the decade, Japan made the mistake of dragging this process out, delaying a solution for years.
 Then came the imperative to bleed shareholders first. Mr. Lundgren recalls a conversation with Peter Wallenberg, at the time chairman of SEB, Sweden's largest bank. Mr. Wallenberg, the scion of the country's most famous family and steward of large chunks of its economy, heard that there would be no sacred cows.
 The Wallenbergs turned around and arranged a recapitalization on their own, obviating the need for a bailout. SEB turned a profit the following year, 1993.
 ''For every krona we put into the bank, we wanted the same influence,'' Mr. Lundgren said. ''That ensured that we did not have to go into certain banks at all.''
 By the end of the crisis, the Swedish government had seized a vast portion of the banking sector, and the agency had mostly fulfilled its hard-nosed mandate to drain share capital before injecting cash. When markets stabilized, the Swedish state then reaped the benefits by taking the banks public again.
 More money may yet come into official coffers. The government still owns 19.9 percent of Nordea, a Stockholm bank that was fully nationalized and is now a highly regarded giant in Scandinavia and the Baltic Sea region.
 The politics of Sweden's crisis management were similarly tough-minded, though much quieter.
 Soon after the plan was announced, the Swedish government found that international confidence returned more quickly than expected, easing pressure on its currency and bringing money back into the country. The center-left opposition, while wary that the government might yet let the banks off the hook, made its points about penalizing shareholders privately.
 ''The only thing that held back an avalanche was the hope that the system was holding,'' said Leif Pagrotzky, a senior member of the opposition at the time. ''In public we stuck together 100 percent, but we fought behind the scenes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption on Tuesday about Sweden's response to its 1992 financial crisis misstated the position at the time of Bo Lundgren, who described Sweden's strategy and commented on the United States' proposals for resolving its own crisis. He was the deputy minister of finance -- not the finance minister, a post held by Anne Wibble.
An article and a picture caption on Sept. 23 about Sweden's response to its 1992 financial crisis misstated the government position at the time for Bo Lundgren, who described Sweden's strategy and commented on the United States' proposals for resolving its own crisis. A correction in this space on Sept. 27 repeated the error. He was minister for fiscal and financial affairs -- not finance minister or deputy finance minister.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bo Lundgren, finance minister during the 1992 crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SWEDISH NATIONAL DEBT OFFICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (61%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (61%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWEDEN (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



665 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Shell Opens an Office in Baghdad After a 36-Year Absence

BYLINE: By SAM DAGHER; Alissa J. Rubin and Atheer Kakan contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Baghdad, Mosul and Diyala.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Royal Dutch Shell, one of the world's biggest oil companies, completed a multibillion-dollar natural gas deal with the Iraqi government on Monday and said it had established an office in Baghdad -- the first foreign petroleum giant to do so since Iraq nationalized its oil industry more than three decades ago.
 The company described its decision to open an office here as a milestone that partly reflected the vast improvement in Iraq's stability compared with conditions during the worst years of the war. But in a sobering reminder of the underlying dangers of doing business here, the company would not disclose the location of its office, and the senior Shell official who announced the gas deal was accompanied by a phalanx of armed guards. 
 ''We are ready to establish a presence,'' the official, Linda Cook, executive director of the company's gas and power unit, said during a news conference in Baghdad's heavily guarded Green Zone. 
 Ms. Cook, who oversaw the signing of the gas deal with the Iraqi government, appeared with Iraq's oil minister, Hussain al-Shahristani.
 The joint venture -- to recapture gas that now goes to waste during oil extraction in Basra, in southern Iraq -- is the company's official return to Iraq after 36 years. Shell, along with the predecessors to BP, Exxon Mobil and Total, was among the original partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company before the companies lost their concessions to nationalization as Saddam Hussein rose in the 1970s.
 Much of the recaptured gas will go to power stations and industrial sites like petrochemical and fertilizer plants, Mr. Shahristani said. 
 The signing of the deal was expected; Shell is one of more than 30 foreign companies bidding on long-term contracts for six important oil fields. The winners are to be announced in 2009. A condition for any winning bid set by the Iraqi government is that the company be willing to establish a presence in Baghdad.
 Shell was also among a smaller group of Western companies negotiating no-bid contracts to help Iraq increase production from existing oil fields, but the process was suspended earlier this month following criticism from several United States senators.
 Mr. Shahristani praised the gas joint venture, which will be 51 percent owned by the Iraqi government through the South Oil Company and 49 percent by Shell, as a step to address Iraq's chronic and crippling power shortages.
 Besides their economic implications, the power problems have become a highly charged political and emotional issue for Iraqis. 
 The deal with Shell came on the heels of a $3 billion agreement with China to develop the Ahdab oil field in the south, which was signed last month.
 Eleven people died in violence on Monday, and the American military said a soldier had been killed by small-arms fire in Baghdad on Sunday. 
 In Diyala Province, two people were killed when a roadside bomb was detonated near the car they were driving in, according to police officials in Baquba, the provincial capital. 
 In Hamam al Alil, a town about 10 miles south of Mosul, five children were killed and three were wounded when their soccer ball hit a roadside bomb on the street where they were playing. 
 In Baghdad, a suicide bomber detonated his car at midday near a Shiite mosque in the busy Karrada neighborhood, killing himself and two passers-by and wounding nine people. A mortar shell killed one person in the Tobchi neighborhood, on the west side of the Tigris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); FERTILIZER MFG (68%); POWER FAILURES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (97%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (97%); RDSA (AMS) (97%); RDS.B (NYSE) (97%); RDS.A (NYSE) (97%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

PERSON: LINDA Z COOK (74%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



666 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'YOU MUST REMEMBER THIS: THE WARNER BROS. STORY'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: In a Biopic A Studio Becomes Its Own Star

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Periodically over the years, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has presented the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award at the Oscars to producers and directors who have made significant contributions to the country's cinematic library. The honor invites us to consider in what proportion recipients feel celebrated as opposed to merely aged. No award for lifetime achievement containing in its title the word ''memorial'' can fully escape its funereal subtext, a sense of a party ended. 
 A similar air of elegy is palpable in ''You Must Remember This: The Warner Bros. Story,'' which is a tribute to the studio of ''Public Enemy,'' ''Casablanca,'' ''Superman'' and ''Risky Business'' as much as it is an implicit commemoration of what movies meant when Americans lined up outside theaters to see them and filmmakers had yet to cede so much cultural currency to purveyors of other media. 
 The scope of the documentary, part of the American Masters series on PBS, is epic: it is five hours long and will be shown over three nights (beginning Tuesday on most stations). Directed by the critic and author Richard Schickel, the film has Clint Eastwood as both narrator and one of its subjects. Mr. Eastwood forged his relationship with Warner in the 1970s, when the studio was attaching itself to a stable of innovative directors, among them Stanley Kubrick and Martin Scorsese. Mr. Scorsese provides much of the commentary, functioning both as film scholar and corporate enthusiast and explaining how honored he was to land his 1973 film, ''Mean Streets,'' at the studio responsible for some of the greatest gangster pictures ever. 
 ''You Must Remember This'' tracks Warner's history chronologically, and if the first half holds together more successfully than the rest, it is because after the 1960s, it becomes harder to tell what makes a Warner Brothers movie a Warner Brothers movie. For as long as it can sustain the idea, the film imagines the studio itself as auteur, turning out movies in the 1930s and '40s that could not have been mistaken for the product of any other Hollywood outfit. 
 In the pre-Code era of the early 1930s, films like ''Baby Face,'' which starred a young Barbara Stanwyck sleeping her way, floor by floor, to the top of a New York office building, were grittier, grimmer, more salacious than anything coming from Warner's rivals. The studio's vision was bleak, and its face, in stars like Stanwyck and Cagney, was scrappy. 
 During that same period Warner aligned itself thematically with the politics of the New Deal. ''Footlight Parade'' ends with dancers forming an eagle, the symbol of Roosevelt's National Recovery Act. Though it isn't mentioned in the documentary, a 1933 ad for the studio described it as ''a new deal in entertainment.'' 
 Apart from such blatant invocation, Warner films aimed to capture the horrors of the Depression, the indignity of unemployment, bread lines and soup kitchens, as the studio imagined itself enforcing a national ethos of social equality and justice. In ''Wild Boys of the Road,'' middle-class boys robbed of any decent opportunity become scavengers and fugitives. The film's message was clear: systems fail their citizens, and the government must step in. With Nazism on the rise in Europe, Warner Brothers drew attention to America's nativism with the 1937 film ''Black Legion,'' about a Klan-like group and foreign workers. 
 The studio, however, was not always on the right side of history. Paying homage to the United States' Russian allies, the 1943 war film ''Mission to Moscow'' is a big advertisement for Stalinism. In an amazing scene, shown in the documentary, a visitor finds shopping in Communist Russia to be not all that different from a jaunt through Lord & Taylor.
 If Warner Brothers was branding itself as a marketer of democratic ideology, other studios were branding themselves too, if perhaps not quite as nobly or aggressively. Warner Brothers was not alone in manufacturing a corporate identity, but ''You Must Remember This'' ignores the climate in which Warner was flourishing. In the 1930s and '40s, MGM made movies like ''The Thin Man,'' ''Dinner at Eight,'' and ''The Philadelphia Story,'' institutionally identifiable by virtue of a common aristocratic spirit. 
 ''You Must Remember This'' is bound to send a lot of viewers straight to Netflix. In the excitement it generates for movie watching, it's a triumph. But after five hours it is hard to decipher how Warner Brothers became so great, who had the most discerning eye for talent, and who among its chieftains and minions sustained its sense of ingenuity. 
 Of the four brothers who founded the company, we hear mostly (and rightly) about Jack, but the film is biographically scant. Steve Ross, who was responsible for Warner's merger with Time Inc. in 1990, is talked about in terms of how much people liked him. There's no sense of how changes in personnel and corporate culture affected the studio's vision. 
 The film imagines Warner as an organization of disembodied affinities. Presumably there were many wizards, but the curtain is never pulled all the way back.
 AMERICAN MASTERS
 You Must Remember This:
 The Warner Bros. Story
 On most PBS stations on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights (check local listings).
 Directed, written and produced by Richard Schickel; Clint Eastwood, executive producer and narrator; Susan Lacy, creator and executive producer of American Masters. Produced by Lorac Productions in partnership with American Masters and Warner Brothers Entertainment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward G. Robinson in the Warner Brothers gangster movie ''Little Caesar,'' from 1930. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); DRAMA FILMS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); WRITERS (72%)

COMPANY: ERAMET SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (84%)

TICKER: ERA (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331492 SECONDARY SMELTING, REFINING & ALLOYING OF NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) (51%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (51%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (51%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



667 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: At A.I.G., Maneuvers To Salvage Some Value

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Major shareholders of American International Group were scrambling on Monday to see if a better deal was possible than the anticipated restructuring of A.I.G. under the Federal Reserve, which they feared would all but wipe out the value of their stakes. 
 If the shareholders are unable to redirect the Fed's restructuring plans, they have shown interest in buying some of A.I.G.'s operating subsidiaries. The subsidiaries are mostly insurance companies with solid books of business, as well as other profitable businesses like aircraft leasing. 
 The shareholders are being represented by Michael Kantor, the former commerce secretary and United States trade representative during the Clinton administration. 
 He issued a statement at the end of a meeting with the shareholders group on Monday, saying they represented ''millions of people who invested their savings, pensions and retirement funds'' in A.I.G. 
 Mr. Kantor said he believed that both the shareholders and the taxpayers would be better off if a new restructuring plan could be devised. The meeting ended without a clear plan of action, but Mr. Kantor said the discussions would continue. 
 Many hurdles, including money, stand in the way of the shareholders getting an increased role. The Fed stepped in with an $85 billion emergency loan for A.I.G. only after the company's efforts to raise money from the private sector failed. 
 Nor is it clear yet whether the shareholders group has the legal authority to force a change of course from the board, which has already agreed to work with the Fed and has drawn down some of the loan. 
 The loan has a high interest rate, and all borrowings must be paid back in two years. That has raised fears that the Fed will rapidly dismantle the global insurance company to raise the money to make good on the loan. 
 A.I.G. also promised the Fed a warrant giving it the right to own 80 percent of the company. But the terms of that agreement have come into question after the company filed conflicting references with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Already this year, shareholders have lost more than 90 percent of the value of their stock. Now they fear being wiped out completely if the company has to be dismantled to raise money to pay back the Fed.
 Regulators working with A.I.G. have said they have no intention of holding a fire sale. But the Fed has never bailed out an insurance company before, and the process is so uncertain that the shareholders decided their interests would be overlooked if they did not get involved.
 ''The fear that you always have, when you've got a government takeover, is that the government doesn't know how to run companies and doesn't want to run companies, so it could just liquidate the company,'' said David Boies, the lawyer representing A.I.G.'s former chairman and chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg. 
 Mr. Greenberg and companies he controls together own the biggest block of A.I.G. shares, but Mr. Boies said the former chief executive had not joined the shareholders' committee. He said Mr. Greenberg supported the committee's efforts, and he attended Monday's meeting as an observer. 
 The New York State comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, also sent a representative to Monday's meeting, because the New York State pension fund owns about 11 million shares of A.I.G.
 Banking and insurance regulators have been in touch with A.I.G.'s new chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, about plans to wind down the operations of A.I.G.'s financial products unit. 
 The unit was the source of the huge recent losses that nearly sank A.I.G. through its dealings in complex debt securities and derivatives contracts. No buyer is likely to emerge for the unit, so regulators have said they intend to sell off troubled securities in its portfolio and terminate at least some of its derivatives contracts. The process is likely to be very costly. One person involved in the planning, who spoke on condition he not be identified, said that in the worst case, winding down the unit's affairs could consume the Fed's entire $85 billion loan. 
 Another individual, also speaking on condition he not be identified, who was briefed on the shareholders' discussions said they had considered the option of taking control of A.I.G. by buying all of its shares. The committee represents about 30 percent of the company's owners. 
 But while A.I.G.'s stock is not prohibitively expensive, there would be major legal obstacles to such a strategy. A.I.G.'s board has already agreed to work with the Fed, and it is by no means clear that the agreement could be altered.
 Nor was it clear that the shareholders could quickly replace A.I.G.'s current board with a new one that more closely identified with their interests. 
 In case the committee finds itself unable to displace the Fed, its members have also expressed interest in buying certain A.I.G. businesses.
 A spokesman for the New York State Insurance Superintendent, Eric R. Dinallo, said officials were aware of the shareholders' committee's efforts but declined to comment as of Monday afternoon. The insurance department has said in the past that it wanted to see an orderly restructuring process at A.I.G., and hoped that responsible investors would bid for the companies, so that they would remain solvent as they changed hands. 
 Great uncertainty remained Monday because of confusion over exactly what legal rights the shareholders have with respect to the Fed. 
 When A.I.G. first filed a statement about the Fed's emergency loan with the S.E.C. last Thursday, it said it had issued the Federal Reserve Bank of New York a warrant to obtain 79.9 percent of its stock ''subject to shareholder approval.'' 
 But on Friday, A.I.G. filed a second statement with the S.E.C. which did not mention the warrant or contain the reference to ''shareholder approval.'' Instead, it said the approval procedure for giving the Fed a stake in A.I.G. would depend on what form the stake took. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice R. Greenberg, who resigned as chief of A.I.G. in 2005, but still is a major shareholder, with his lawyer, David Boies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INSURANCE (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); LAWYERS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GLOBAL INSURANCE CO LTD (65%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



668 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Advertising: Stars of Country Music, Now on the Motel Phone

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE latest recordings by a couple of popular country music acts will never hit the Billboard charts but, to paraphrase the title of a song from the movie ''Nashville,'' it don't worry them.
 That's because the recordings -- by the singer Phil Vassar and the group Little Big Town -- were made on behalf of Red Roof Inn, a leading budget lodging chain. As part of a multimedia campaign, the voices of Mr. Vassar and the members of Little Big Town can be heard when guests at Red Roof motels ask for wake-up calls or potential guests are placed on hold when calling to book rooms.
 The campaign seeks to capitalize on the popularity of country music among customers of Red Roof. That is reflected in the theme of the campaign, ''Red Roof loves country road trips,'' as well as the address of a Web site, or microsite, that is devoted to the campaign (redrooflovescountry.com).
 The campaign is another example of a long-popular trend of marketers' turning to country music to appeal to consumers. Recent examples include a fragrance from Coty, named after the singer Tim McGraw, and a reality series, ''Nashville Star,'' on NBC. 
 The campaign also represents the most extensive use by Red Roof of the nontraditional media. In fact, neither agency involved is an advertising agency per se.
 The campaign is the brainchild of Hill & Knowlton/Samcor, which is the Coral Gables, Fla., office of Hill & Knowlton, a unit of the WPP Group that specializes in public relations and corporate communications.
 The other agency taking part is Rink Entertainment in Nashville, a film and video production company. Rink has a division specializing in branded entertainment, which seeks to weave the products and brands of marketers into the contents of TV shows and movies -- not to mention wake-up calls and hold messages. Rink matched Red Roof with the performers.
 The other nontraditional elements of the Red Roof campaign include video clips on the microsite, featuring Mr. Vassar, Little Big Town and another band, KingBilly. There are also sponsorship deals with a cable TV network and 250 radio stations that are devoted to country music.
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at almost $4 million, also includes traditional aspects like print advertisements, posters, postcards, sweepstakes, contests and discount offers on rooms at Red Roof motels.
 Red Roof joins a lengthening list of lodging chains that are seeking guests outside of the usual methods like television commercials. It is indicative of the growing interest in the new media among mainstream marketers.
 For instance, Holiday Inn Express is sponsoring a second round of Webisodes, or online video clips, under the title ''The Smart Show.'' And Best Western International has a page on YouTube called Best Western TV.
 ''We wanted more of a guerrilla or viral campaign, something that would get a buzz,'' said Joseph A. Wheeling, chief executive at Red Roof Inns in Columbus, Ohio.
 He liked the idea of country music, he added, because ''it really is a bull's-eye with our customer.''
 The typical Red Roof guest is also a big fan of Nascar, Mr. Wheeling said, but it is ''a lot more expensive'' to sponsor promotions with Nascar themes.
 Besides, ''we always fill up'' motels near Nascar events, he added, ''a year in advance, at premium rates,'' while ''we don't always fill up for country music performances -- and they're a lot more plentiful than Nascar events.''
 The shift to the nontraditional media came after the Red Roof chain was sold last fall by the North American division of a French company, Accor, to private equity investors.
 A new management team led to ''a new way of thinking,'' Mr. Wheeling said, centered on sponsoring ''a well-integrated campaign'' in which unconventional outreach would predominate.
 One benefit of such an approach, he added, is that a nontraditional campaign can be developed faster than a campaign that relies heavily on TV commercials.
 ''We went from concept to the selection of the artists to shooting the videos in a very short period of time,'' Mr. Wheeling said. ''We started in February and had the first shoot complete in late April.''
 ''And from the time we signed Little Big Town to the time we shot their vignette was three days,'' he added.
 One clip featuring Little Big Town on the Red Roof microsite shows the band meeting in person with two ardent fans, a couple who travel frequently to see Little Big Town in concert.
 ''We do take a lot of road trips,'' the woman says, to which the man adds, ''We're definitely some weekend warriors.'' Little Big Town thanks them by serenading them with the song ''I'm With the Band.''
 A clip on the microsite featuring Mr. Vassar shows him visiting two fans, a soldier and his wife, who were staying at a Red Roof on a visit to Nashville. ''It's a fourth-anniversary surprise,'' an announcer says, ''that connects two country music fans with one of their favorite stars.''
 The versions of the videos on the microsite are three minutes long. Thirty-second promotional spots on the GAC (Great American Country) cable network, owned by Scripps Networks Interactive, offer excerpts from the clips and direct viewers to watch the full versions on redrooflovescountry.com.
 ''The object is to become the hotel for the fans and for the bands,'' said Cori Zywotow Rice, president at Hill & Knowlton/Samcor, which conducted research that found how effective country music would be for Red Roof to ''connect with its core customer.''
 The campaign is ''very topical,'' she added, because in this economy a lodging chain like Red Roof, with its value orientation, is increasingly appealing.
 The performers also welcomed a chance to appear in the campaign, Ms. Rice said, because ''the face of music is changing.''
 ''Artists are also looking for different means to connect with fans,'' she added, as Internet downloads hinder sales of recorded music. Indeed, the video clips promote more than a dozen songs by the three acts.
 Mr. Wheeling described himself as a country fan who likes performers like the singer George Strait.
 ''I grew up on a ranch in Montana,'' he said, and although ''I try not to influence us from a business or management perspective based on who I am,'' when Hill & Knowlton/Samcor ''came to us with this idea, it was, 'No doubt, this is our customer.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (87%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SWEEPSTAKES (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (70%); PRINT ADVERTISING (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (58%); BEST WESTERN INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: TIM MCGRAW (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



669 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Titans, After the Fall

BYLINE: By BEN WHITE and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Over the years, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have established their gilded reputations advising companies how to remake themselves, often in hostile environments.
 Now that they are under siege, the two proud but humbled giants of Wall Street are having to reinvent their own businesses. 
 Only a week ago, both were insisting that their fundamental strategies were fine. As a punishing market took down their competitors one by one, executives of the leading investment houses were resisting calls to become more like banks. Doing so, they warned, might make them and the entire American financial system less nimble, less creative -- and less willing to take the big risks that reaped big rewards. 
 Now, the surprising weekend metamorphosis of both into regulated bank holding companies capable of acquiring other banks has transformed Wall Street into an arena of greater stability, less complexity -- and smaller profits, at least compared with the eye-popping standards that had created a golden era of $50 million bonuses for top traders and bankers.
 ''I think it means a tamer Wall Street and profits that are smaller but probably less volatile. I do think this probably curbs their entrepreneurial initiative,'' said Samuel L. Hayes, emeritus professor of investment banking at Harvard. ''But that was going to happen anyway.'' 
 The announcements also leave the industry looking similar to its framework in the 1930s, before the Glass-Steagall Act separated investment banking from commercial banking. Morgan Stanley moved quickly into the new era on Monday, announcing plans to sell up to a 20 percent stake in itself to the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Japan's largest commercial bank, for about $8 billion. 
 Mitsubishi has $1.1 trillion in bank deposits, which will help bolster Morgan's stability of financing. Morgan Stanley had $36 billion in bank deposits as of Aug. 31 and also said it planned to add more by offering new retail banking services to clients and by making acquisitions. 
 Goldman Sachs, whose former chairman, Henry M. Paulson Jr., has in his present role of Treasury secretary commandeered the current rescue of America's troubled financial system, is also expected to increase its deposit base. 
 Private equity money might also come to the rescue, after the Federal Reserve on Monday announced changes to rules that would allow these firms and other minority investors to own up to 33 percent of a bank's equity up from 25 percent, as long as their voting block was less than 15 percent of shares. And these investors can for the first time openly influence decisions at the banks in which they invest.
 Investors reacted more positively to Morgan Stanley's shift on Monday, pushing the bank's shares down 12 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $27.09 after being in free fall last week. Shares of Goldman fell $9.02, or 7 percent, to $120.78, a move analysts attributed to the bank not announcing any new capital infusion. 
 Lucas Van Praag, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said the bank had no immediate plans to raise more capital, although it could do so to finance the acquisition of assets it viewed as attractive. 
 Both Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs already took customer deposits. Goldman, which will become the fourth-largest bank holding company, has $20 billion in deposits spread between the United States and Europe. The bank plans to move assets from other businesses, including its current lending business, giving it $150 billion in deposits. It also plans to widen its business through acquisitions and by attracting more high net-worth investing clients. 
 Both banks may have to shed some assets to come into compliance with the rules that govern bank holding companies. For instance, they may have to sell commodity production facilities like power plants that they have owned in the past. But they will have up to five years to dispose of the assets and may be able to keep them in private equity subsidiaries. 
 If Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley were voracious in the world of investment banking, their focus on commercial banking could introduce new competition for existing commercial banks like Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, as well as smaller regional banks who will have to contend with two new giants on their doorstep. 
 The new face of investment banking also threatens to eat away at the industry's appeal among workers. The record bonuses of recent years at Wall Street firms look to be a thing of the past as firms like Goldman and Morgan Stanley lower their leverage and ability to produce stunning profits in areas like proprietary trading. 
 In addition to slim bonuses this year, the value of workers' savings in company stocks has plummeted at nearly every company on Wall Street. Commercial bank stocks do not tend to soar upward as fast as investment banking stocks and workers at the fallen investment banks are now worried their new parent companies' structures will slow the rise of their stocks.
 Analysts said the real test for both firms would come if markets improved and opportunities to pump up profits returned. 
 ''There is no way to argue that they are going to be as profitable as they were before this,'' said Meredith Whitney, an analyst at CIBC Oppenheimer. ''There is a tremendous amount of regulatory scrutiny, micromanaging and red tape, and rightly so, that is part of the process in relation to taking in retail deposits. These guys will have a full-time highly involved chaperone in all of their activities.'' 
 Even before Wall Street was rocked by the current crisis, both firms had been reducing their reliance on borrowed money, or leverage, to drive returns in highly profitable areas like proprietary trading. But they were doing so in an environment where credit markets remained frozen, where there was much less opportunity to make big profits by taking huge risks. 
 As early as March, both firms had also begun to examine the possibility of transforming themselves, preparing a large filing required to be submitted to the Fed to request bank holding company status. 
 At the same time, executives publicly maintained there was no need to diversify their business toward commercial banking. As recently as last Tuesday, when Goldman Sachs announced a third-quarter profit of $845 million, David Viniar, the bank's chief financial officer, said in an interview that he did not believe Goldman needed to change its current structure. ''We believe this is not about the model,'' he said. ''This is about performance.'' 
 Colm Kelleher, Morgan Stanley's chief financial officer, also said recently that becoming a traditional bank holding company could be problematic because there would be new constraints on the way Morgan Stanley could deploy customer deposits to finance its other businesses.
 But the final decisions were essentially forced over the weekend as investors grew increasingly skeptical that either Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley could continue to function as an independent investment banks -- something competitors including Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch could not achieve. Hedge funds also started moving balances away from both banks, a shift that might also have spurred the change in status, according to analysts. 
 According to Mr. Hayes, after resisting change, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley realized they would ultimately be subject to greater regulatory oversight no matter what they did. With the global financial system on a precipice, the firms appear to have decided it made more sense to embrace the benefits and protections of being a more traditional bank, including permanent access to borrowing from the Fed and more stable funding bases of customer deposits. 
 The firms will also be able to pledge a wider range of collateral to borrow from the Fed than they could as investment banks. 
 ''Goldman and Morgan went to the Fed and said 'we want to be regulated by you?' '' said Richard Portes, a professor of economics at the London Business School and president of the Center for Economic Policy Research. ''Give me a break. They knew they'd have to accept increased regulation and lower levels of leverage. Given that, why not have the security that goes with it?'' 
 Executive at both banks said they were already in compliance with capital requirements imposed on bank holding companies. Goldman said it ended the third quarter with a Tier One capital ratio, a measure of equity against risk-weighed assets, of 11.6 percent, above the 6 percent required to be considered a ''well capitalized'' bank by Fed standards. Morgan Stanley had a Tier One ratio of 12.7 percent. Those figures are based on new international capital standards still being phased in by United States commercial banks. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Morgan Stanley's chief, John Mack, left, and Lloyd Blankfein, chief of Goldman Sachs, are leading but shrinking financial giants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PETER DeJONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C8) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); RETAIL BANKING (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (86%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (82%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (86%); MTU (NYSE) (82%); 8306 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



670 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Prices Up More Than $16

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices posted their biggest one-day gain on Monday, jumping more than $16 a barrel as investors dashed into commodities on concerns about the government's plan to bail out the financial system. 
 After a wild last hour of trading, crude oil futures surged as high as $130 a barrel before finally settling at $120.92, a record jump of $16.37. In the last four days, oil prices have risen $29. The dollar also weakened on Monday, creating an incentive for commodities to serve as a currency hedge. Gold, silver and copper all posted strong gains. 
 The rise in oil led a general flight to the perceived safety of commodities as investors seemed to question whether the $700 billion plan to buy troubled mortgage assets would help spur the economy to a quicker rebound. President Bush urged Congress to pass the plan quickly, while Democrats were working on proposals that would include help to homeowners.
 Monday's volatility in the oil market was worsened by the fact that the October contract expired at the end of the day. Prices commonly rise when a contract is scheduled to expire as traders rush to cover positions. The New York Mercantile Exchange briefly halted electronic crude oil trading after prices breached the $10 daily limit, but trading resumed a short time later after the limit was increased to $20. 
 In recent weeks, oil prices had been falling from records reached this summer as slowing economic growth hurt oil consumption. The price of oil fell to a seven-month low when it hit $91.50 on Tuesday. It also traded under $100-a-barrel for the first time since March. But the relief appears to have been short-lived. 
 Anxiety about the government's plan sent stocks sharply lower on Monday, and pushed the dollar down against other currencies. Traders said the dollar was weakening because the United States would have to increase its debt to finance its bailout plan.
 The euro rose to $1.4781 in afternoon trading, up from $1.4470 on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); FUTURES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONSUMPTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



671 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Talks Under Way to Free European and Egyptian

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and MONA EL-NAGGAR. 
Rachel Donadio contributed reporting from Rome.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
The kidnappers of 11 European tourists and 8 Egyptians who were taken in a remote desert area of southwestern Egypt on Friday night have demanded $6 million to free them, an Egyptian government official said early Tuesday. Negotiations were under way, said the official, Magdy Radi, a cabinet spokesman. 
 The tourism group was ambushed by armed masked men while driving off-road vehicles in a rugged, remote area called Kark Talh, government officials said. Five Italians, five Germans and a Romanian were in the group, along with an Egyptian police officer, four Egyptian drivers, two Egyptian tour guides and the managing director of the tour company, the government said. Egypt's Ministry of Tourism said that the kidnappers drove toward the border with Sudan. 
 The ministry said in a statement that the tour company's managing director phoned his wife, and ANSA, the Italian news agency, reported that the ministry said she was negotiating with the kidnappers. The owner of the company, Aegyptus, was identified by ANSA as Ibrahim Abdelrahim, and his wife as Kristen Butterwick-Abdelrahim.
 In New York on Monday afternoon, Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, said the hostages had all been freed, according to Reuters. He spoke on the eve of the opening of the United NationsGeneral Assembly. 
 But Mr. Radi said that his information was wrong. ''They have not been released yet, '' he said. ''The negotiations are still going on.'' 
 News that tourists were kidnapped in Upper Egypt, which was once a hotbed of radical Islamic terrorism, at first raised fears of a potentially crippling blow to tourism, one of the main pillars of the Egyptian economy. 
 Egyptian officials disclosed the kidnapping only on Monday, after it was discussed by Italian officials in Rome. But once it was made public, officials here sought to underscore that the victims were in a remote area closer to Sudan that any major Egyptian city and that it was a ''mobsterlike'' criminal attack and not one carried out by religious-inspired radicals.
 The kidnapping occurred in the New Valley governate, the least densely populated region of Egypt. It is primarily known for its dates, sweetened in the desert sun, and desert safaris.
 ''At this point in time, there are no indications whatsoever that this incident is linked to any organized act of terror,'' the Ministry of Tourism said in a statement.
 Diaa Rashwan, an expert in radical Islamic movements at the state's chief research center, the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo, agreed with the assessment. 
 ''Talking about ransom is not in line with the method of Muslim extremists,'' he said. ''They generally kill or make conditions that are very difficult to achieve.''
 Nevertheless, the kidnappings come at a time of crisis for Egypt. The nation is suffering severe inflation -- especially for food staples -- and a seemingly endless series of strikes among state workers. Its upper house of Parliament was recently gutted in a fire that rescue workers could not control for hours. Two weeks ago, more than 100 people were killed in a rockslide that crushed a neighborhood east of Cairo.
 ''Any event like this is extremely harmful to the Egyptian economy,'' said Samir Tobar, an economist at Zagazig University in the Nile Delta north of Cairo. ''These people cannot possibly love their country. Egypt gets more than $3 billion a year from tourism.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); DESERTS (89%); RELIGION (86%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); ROME, ITALY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); SUDAN (92%); ITALY (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



672 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Experts See a More Subdued Period Ahead for New York's Economy

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
In just over six months, New York City has gone from being the home of the five largest, free-standing investment banks in the country to being on the verge of having none. The last two, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, announced on Sunday that they would transform themselves into more conventional banking companies, like Bank of America or Wachovia Corporation.
 The joint surrender by two firms that had represented the bold, risk-taking ways of Wall Street signals the start of a period of subdued activity in the city's financial sector, financial experts and economists said. The days of taking huge risks in search of huge rewards for both the firms and their employees are probably over for the foreseeable future, they said. 
 And that could mean significant changes for the city's economy. 
 For much of the past five years, huge salaries and bonuses for investment banks have fueled New York's economy and helped fill the city and state's tax coffers. Bankers' paychecks have driven up real estate values, kept innumerable restaurants profitable and helped transform entire neighborhoods of the city. But the transformation of New York's financial industry from high-flying investment banks, capable of generating huge profits based on abundant borrowing, into more conventional, federally regulated banks will almost certainly put a damper on the swashbuckling ways of Wall Street. Under the tighter regulation of the Federal Reserve, the bankers and traders who built Wall Street will be able to borrow far less to boost the potential returns of the bets they make, reducing their firms' potential profits and the size of their own bonuses.
 The restructuring almost certainly means that once the current downturn is over, and banks begin hiring again, the city's most lucrative industry will not be as lucrative as it once was, experts say. ''In the new environment, banks will be behaving less like hedge funds than they have in the past,'' said Charles R. Geisst, a professor of finance at Manhattan College, referring to generally unregulated investment funds that borrow heavily to buy and sell securities.
 The prices of everything traded on Wall Street, from stocks and bonds to currencies and commodities like oil ''are going to become much more quiet than they have been in the past,'' Mr. Geisst said. ''Frankly, I don't think that's a bad thing.''
 That could mean that while boom years might be less profitable, downturns might also be less painful. But smaller swings in the markets provide fewer opportunities to get rich quick and go on spending sprees in the city. The markets for a range of luxury goods, from penthouse apartments to custom-made jewelry to seven-course French meals are tied to the fortunes of the tens of thousands of residents who work for investment banks.
 ''It's going to be very severe for New York City,'' Mr. Geisst said. ''I just think the whole thing is going to shrink a bit. In New York, as in London, most of the most desirable dwellings are occupied by investment bankers. That's no longer going to be the case.''
 The latest cause for such predictions of gloom is the recognition that even the firm with the most swagger, Goldman Sachs, is in retreat. 
 Goldman and its chief rival, Morgan Stanley, sought and received emergency approval from federal regulators to change into bank holding companies, the same structure used by the biggest commercial banks.
 Many executives of the largest Wall Street firms have looked down on commercial banking -- basic borrowing and lending for consumers and small businesses -- as a simpler, less rewarding pursuit. Goldman and Morgan do not intend to abandon the more lucrative ventures of raising money for corporations and advising them on mergers, but they will be more constrained under banking regulators than they were under the Securities and Exchange Commission, financial experts said.
 In exchange for the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve, the restructured firms will be expected to take on less risk and pay out smaller bonuses to their bankers and traders. During boom years, investment banks like Goldman, Morgan, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns made profits of 25 cents or more for every dollar invested in them, then turned around and paid half of those profits to their employees.
 In 2007, even as the credit crisis was spreading, Wall Street firms paid out an estimated $33 billion in bonuses. Most of that money was received by workers who live in or around New York City. This year's bonuses are expected to amount to a fraction of that sum.
 State officials say that a 10 percent decline in Wall Street bonuses translates into a $750 million decline in state tax revenue.
 Of course, neither Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy last week, nor Bear Stearns, which nearly collapsed before being bought in March by JPMorgan Chase & Company, will report any profits this year. A fifth independent investment bank, Merrill Lynch, agreed to a takeover by Bank of America this month.
 The remaining banks still could rebound to being very profitable, but they are likely to be more conservative than they were during the go-go periods of the late 1990s or the mid-2000s, experts said.
 ''I do see it as the end of an era'' for investment banking, said Donna M. Hitscherich, who lectures about finance at Columbia Business School. ''But it isn't going away. The stakes are too high not to make this work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Morgan Stanley's headquarters in New York. Financial experts said they expected the large bonuses given to bankers and traders at the independent investment banks to shrink considerably. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BONUS PAY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HOME PRICES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); LUXURY GOODS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



673 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: A Maker Of Phones, Speaking Up

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
When executives from Google and T-Mobile converge on a stage in New York Tuesday to unveil the first mobile phone powered by Google's software, the event will be a coming-out party of sorts for another, far more obscure, but no less ambitious company -- HTC.
 The Taiwanese electronics manufacturer was chosen by Google more than two years ago to build the first mobile phone based on its ''Android'' software in large part because of its proven ability to design and build head-turning mobile devices. 
 For HTC, it amounted to another victory in its efforts to do battle for the high end of the phone market with the likes of the iPhone maker Apple, BlackBerry's maker Research in Motion and others. 
 ''I think we are ready,'' Cher Wang, a Taiwanese plastics mogul's daughter who helped found the company in 1997 and serves as its chairwoman. ''We have a strong customer base of people who want our devices.''
 A lot of Americans already use HTC phones -- they just do not know it. 
 HTC accounted for about one in six smartphones in the United States in the first half of this year, but the overwhelming majority of them do not carry the HTC brand, according to Nielsen Mobile. 
 For much of the past decade, the company operated in relative obscurity as a contract manufacturer for companies like Compaq, Palm and many cellphone carriers, who stamped their own brands on the products. 
 About two years ago, HTC decided to come out of the shadows with an ambitious goal: establish a global consumer electronics brand that its executives hope will become synonymous with quality.
 ''We are far from being there,'' said John Wang, HTC's chief marketing officer. But Mr. Wang said that the company is off to a good start. The company sold two million units of the HTC Touch, introduced last year, and in just three months, one million of the follow-on Touch Diamond, a slick and slim device that reviewers have compared with the iPhone. 
 The Google-powered phone will be the next step in HTC's road to global recognition, he said. (Over all, HTC's revenue, which it reports in Taiwanese dollars, was about $1 billion in the most recent quarter, a 29 percent jump from a year earlier.) 
 The Google phone, which has been called the HTC Dream and the T-Mobile G1, has a touch screen that slides out to expose a five-row keyboard. It offers easy access to Google's services and to a range of third-party applications.
 Many analysts and industry insiders say HTC has turned them into believers. ''HTC has been pushing the innovation envelope for quite a long time,'' said Jeffrey K. Belk, a former senior vice president for strategy at the cellphone chip maker Qualcomm. ''It is only now that people are starting to get know to them better.''
 Still, analysts say that HTC faces long odds in its quest to become a global consumer electronics powerhouse. It is competing against much larger rivals in a market where few niche players have been able to establish themselves. 
 The company began running ads in the United States this year, but a global marketing campaign could be expensive. And unlike some of its most successful competitors, like Apple and Research in Motion, HTC does not control the software that powers its phones.
 ''HTC is trying to compete on better hardware in a point in time when more and more of the differentiation of phones is going to be in the software,'' said James Faucette, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. 
 Much of HTC's success to date has been tied to that of a software company, Microsoft. The Windows Mobile operating system powers 12 percent of smartphones sold worldwide and 20 percent of smartphones sold in the United States. HTC accounts for roughly half of those devices. 
 The roots of the collaboration between the two dates back to the late 1990s, when HTC began making Windows-based personal digital assistants, including the first color model in 1999 and the first wireless model in 2002. The same year, HTC built the first Windows-based smartphone, the Orange SPV, which was sold in Europe.
 ''When we decided to get into the phone business in the early 2000s, they were the natural choice,'' said Scott Horn, general manager of the mobile communications business at Microsoft. 
 Ms. Wang, the chairwoman, said she got the idea for what would become HTC in the early 1980s, while working for First International Computer, an electronics equipment maker. As part of her job, she was forced to haul cases packed with computer parts she was hoping to sell. 
 ''I remember I was in France, early in the morning, and I was dragging these computer cases up and down all these stairs, waiting for a taxi,'' she said. She began to ponder what it would be like if the devices could be smaller and not so heavy to carry around, she said.
 Her father is Wang Yung-ching, a plastics and petrochemicals tycoon who was ranked second on Forbes's list of the richest people in Taiwan. Ms. Wang attended high school in Oakland, Calif., in the mid-1970s and attended the University of California, Berkeley, as a music major. She quickly changed to economics and graduated in 1981 with a master's degree.
 Her own fortune is now measured in the billions as well. 
 One of the co-founders, Peter Chou, who is HTC's chief executive, also spent several years in the United States working for the Digital Equipment Corporation, a computer industry powerhouse in the 1980s and 1990s. 
 Along with other HTC executives there, they have sought to infuse the company with the style and culture of many Silicon Valley pioneers. 
 For example, three years ago HTC created Magic Labs, a group that in addition to about 50 software, hardware and mechanical engineers and industrial designers, includes a writer and a jewelry designer. They all help brainstorm ideas and design new products. Many have titles like software magician and mechanical wizard. The marketing chief John Wang's business card reads ''Chief Innovation Wizard.'' 
 One of the group's mandates is to generate ideas at a torrid pace with the understanding that most of them will never turn into products. ''We have an organization that is designed to fail,'' said Mr. Wang, who helped start Magic Labs. ''It takes close to 1,000 ideas to turn up a few projects that are worth running.''
 One idea that the company considered worthy was TouchFLO, the iPhone-like touch screen technology that powers the Touch line of HTC products. 
 During the development of the Android phone, HTC shipped about 30 engineers to work at the ''Googleplex'' in Mountain View, Calif. ''It was quite amazing how similar the culture was to Silicon Valley's entrepreneurial style,'' said Andy Rubin, senior director of mobile platforms at Google. ''It was clear that these guys were entrepreneurs. They get moving really really fast.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cher Wang is the chairwoman and co-founder of HTC, which has decided to showcase its own brand in the new Google phone. Below, the HTC Touch Diamond smartphone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KIYOSHI OTA/REUTERS) (pg.C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (91%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



674 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: This Season, Tense Times For Retailers

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
For many of the nation's retailers, this is shaping up to be the most critical holiday season since the recession of the early 1980s. Chains that fare poorly could end up as ghosts of Christmases past. 
 Not only are retailers grappling with a sputtering economy and tight-fisted consumers, but the credit crisis is making it harder for them to finance their operations. Most retailers that are not already bankrupt have managed to buy their winter inventories, but that happened before Wall Street was brought to its knees. 
 With credit continuing to tighten, industry professionals now think any weak retail chain that turns in a below-average Christmas performance will be a candidate for bankruptcy early in the new year. 
 ''Management teams of some of the leading department stores are very much expecting significant store closures or outright bankruptcies,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities. ''There's going to be a lot of market share up for grabs.'' 
 Already, more than a dozen retail chains have filed for bankruptcy this year -- including Boscov's, Mervyn's, Steve & Barry's, Linens 'n Things and the Sharper Image. That is double the volume of bankruptcies last year, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group. And a new crop is expected in February and March. 
 ''Everybody's going to forestall any kind of closing or bankruptcy filings as long as they possibly can now that we're on the doorstep of the holiday season,'' said John D. Morris, an analyst at Wachovia. ''From here, it's kind of the homestretch.'' 
 Retail analysts and consultants said weak chains that had been giving up market share include the department stores Bon-Ton and Gottschalks and the discounter Stein Mart. They also cited Sears Holdings, Dillard's, Pacific Sunwear and Coldwater Creek as performing poorly. 
 Antony Karabus, chief executive of Karabus Management, which advises retailers, said one reason some chains were ailing was that they went on shopping sprees in robust times and bought more real estate than they could afford. ''A lot of people were seduced by the easy accessibility to debt at relatively low rates,'' he said.
 Boscov's, for instance, bought about 10 stores and is now selling off that many. Bon-Ton -- which in August had a 10.3 percent decrease in stores open at least a year, an important indicator of retail health -- bought dozens of stores from Saks. 
 While recent sales figures for the aforementioned retailers were down from a year ago, the chains argue that they are not in extreme distress.
 For example, when some of its debt ratings were downgraded last week, Sears Holdings issued a statement saying it was being unfairly treated, noting that other companies were also suffering from high levels of debt taken on in the last few years. Sears says it has generated $5.2 billion of operating cash since the Sears chain merged with Kmart to form Sears Holdings, in 2005, and it generated $1.5 billion in cash last year. 
 A spokesman for the company declined to elaborate on the statement, which said that Sears ''has consistently maintained a strong capital structure and generated significant cash flow from operations.'' 
 Though Christmas is traditionally the time of year when retailers earn much of their profit, this year they will have to contend with a frosty sales environment. Consumers, feeling the effects of the credit squeeze and inflation, are expected to continue to trade down to lower-priced items and chains, and to cut back on big-ticket gifts. The National Retail Federation estimates that holiday sales will rise a meager 2.2 percent this year, well below the 10-year average of 4.4 percent.
 The Wall Street crisis ''just exacerbates the situation,'' said Rosalind Wells, the federation's chief economist. ''You can't turn on your radio or TV without hearing the world is coming to an end.''
 Many retailers are doing their best to prepare, in part by controlling costs, and analysts say some of them may be able to ride out a weak season. ''I think the industry has gone into the current holiday season with pretty conservative plans with inventory and employment levels,'' said Carl Steidtmann, Deloitte Research's chief economist. 
 Indeed, for retailers this Christmas is about trimming inventories, not trees. But a delicate balancing act is required. They must stock enough merchandise to fill the stores' racks and shelves but not so much that it ends up having to be put on sale, eroding profits. The strongest retailers -- those that are able to pull off the balancing act -- may well post low sales growth figures, but their profit margins will be healthy compared to weaker stores. 
 ''We think we're well positioned going into the holiday,'' said Myron E. Ullman III, chairman and chief executive of J. C. Penney, adding that the company had more than $2 billion in cash and relatively low debt.
 Jim Sluzewski, a spokesman for Macy's, said the retailer had ample cash on hand (nearly $1.3 billion in the three-month reporting period that ended Aug. 2), part of which is being used to pay down debt. Macy's also has a $2 billion line of credit in place with Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase as the lead banks. ''It's too soon to know what the effect will be on the overall economy or the consumer,'' Mr. Sluzewski said in an e-mail message.
 Retail professionals say they think the impact of extensive Wall Street layoffs will be felt most acutely by stores in New York, particularly those that cater to upscale customers. Said Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a retail consulting firm: ''No Ferraris, no Lexuses, no luxury apartments.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about retailers' trepidation as the holiday season approaches misstated a statistic for the department store chain Bon-Ton in August. It had a 10.3 percent decrease in sales at stores open at least a year; the number of stores open at least a year did not decrease by 10.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Bon-Ton store at a mall in Harrisburg, Pa. In August, the chain had a 10.3 percent decrease in stores open at least a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (56%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (55%); TSIC INC (55%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (53%); STEIN MART INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (55%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (53%); SMRT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (53%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



675 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Seeks Contingency Plan to Cut Service if Economy Worsens

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has begun exploring possible cuts in subway, bus and commuter rail service to shore up its budget in the face of a projected deficit next year of nearly $900 million, officials said on Monday. 
 The cuts could be necessary if the authority does not receive enough additional money from the state and city or if the economic crisis deepens significantly, the officials said. They cautioned, however, that any service cuts were purely theoretical at this point. 
 The authority has already proposed fare and toll increases that would go into effect next July, although it has not said how big those increases might be. 
 Gary J. Dellaverson, the authority's chief financial officer, said that he had directed the heads of the agencies that make up the authority -- including New York City Transit, which runs the subway and buses, Metro-North Railroad and the Long Island Rail Road -- to come up with alternative budgets ''in the event either the economy is worse than predicted, which is possible, or assistance from government partners in its entirety is not forthcoming.''
 Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the authority, said that the agencies were told to explain how they would make cuts of 4.5 percent or so in their expenses. He declined to say how much that would amount to, but a 4.5 percent reduction of the total authority-wide budget projected to be $9.7 billion next year would equal $437 million. 
 ''This is an exercise in case of a hypothetical situation,'' Mr. Soffin said. ''It's very preliminary.''
 The cuts are supposed to target management-level expenses first and then expenses that directly affect operations. That could include cuts to train and bus service, Mr. Dellaverson said. 
 ''I think it's fair to say that it will be difficult for agencies to find that much savings without affecting the service package,'' he said. 
 Doreen M. Frasca, a member of the authority's board, said after a meeting of the board's finance committee on Monday, ''Obviously, we've got a big deficit, and if our funding partners don't come through for us, everything's going to be on the table. But service cuts will be the last thing on the table.''
 The authority announced in July that it was facing a deficit next year of nearly $900 million, caused partly by a substantial fall-off in revenues from taxes on real estate transactions. It said at the time that it would ask the state and city to contribute an additional $300 million to the authority's budget. That brought a rebuke from City Hall, where officials said that the city was facing a budget crisis of its own and could not give the authority more money. 
 Gov. David A. Paterson has appointed a commission headed by Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the transportation authority, to recommend long-term solutions for the authority's financial problems. Those recommendations are expected to be ready in December, shortly before the deadline for the authority's board to approve a budget for next year. 
 Some of those budget tensions were apparent on Monday at the finance committee meeting, when Mr. Dellaverson traded barbs with a board member, Jeffrey A. Kay, who is the director of the mayor's office of operations. The two argued over an authority proposal to end free E-ZPass use by official city vehicles, including those of the Police and Fire Departments. The change, which would also affect vehicles owned by some state agencies and other public entities, would provide an estimated $10 million annually to the authority.
 ''I feel like this is a way to sort of nickel-and-dime to try to get money to make up for a hole that we have,'' Mr. Kay said. 
 Mr. Dellaverson responded, ''There is no statutory provision that says fire trucks don't pay tolls, just like there's no statutory provision that fire trucks don't pay for gas or paint.'' 
 The issue is to be taken up by the full authority board at a meeting on Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



676 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Galveston Seeks $2.2 Billion in Storm Relief

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Thayer Evans contributed reporting from Galveston, Tex.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Officials from Galveston will ask Congress for about $2.2 billion in disaster relief this week to repair the battered island's port, save a major research hospital from going under and rebuild the city's infrastructure.
 The estimate of the damage done when Hurricane Ike raked the island on Sept. 13 was breathtaking. With 57,000 residents, the amount officials are asking for works out to about $36,800 a resident. 
 In the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, the federal government has disbursed about $100 billion for things like housing reconstruction and infrastructure repairs along the entire Gulf Coast. 
 Mayor Lyda Ann Thomas of Galveston will appear before the Senate Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Disaster Recovery on Tuesday morning and will ask the federal government to foot the bill for $1.1 billion in damage to the city.
 Mayor Bill White of Houston and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst will also appear before the subcommittee, though neither intends to ask for a specific amount of money. Aides to both men said it was too early to assess the damage fully.
 Galveston officials said the $1.1 billion would go to fix water, sewerage and drainage systems as well as traffic signals, roads and bridges. The city is also asking for money to build housing, give grants to small business owners and restore beaches, City Manager Steve LeBlanc said. 
 All this will be in addition to the money the city has received from the Federal Emergency Management Agency for cleaning up debris, he said. ''We're not going up asking for something we're already getting,'' Mr. LeBlanc said. 
 At the same time, the University of Texas Medical Branch -- the oldest medical school in Texas and a major center of research on infectious diseases -- will request $609 million to get the complex's six hospitals, medical school and various research centers up and running, Dr. Ben G. Raimer, a vice president of the school, said. 
 The Port of Galveston is seeking $500 million to repair docks, warehouses, fences and parts of the giant bulkhead wall that separates the island from the channel, Steven M. Cernak, Galveston port director, said.
 Mr. LeBlanc acknowledged that the amount the city was seeking might raise questions in Congress, which is wrestling with whether to approve a $700 billion plan to bail out Wall Street. But, he said, ''These are legitimate requests.''
 Dr. Raimer said the university's board bought only $100 million worth of insurance to cover the medical school, teaching hospital and various research laboratories, including the new Galveston National Laboratory, which is to investigate, among other things, pathogens used as biological weapons.
 The medical center is in shambles, officials said. Flooding on the first floor of the main hospital knocked out $8 million worth of equipment, and repairs to its buildings alone will cost $225 million.
 In research laboratories, the school lost some $17.6 million worth of equipment to heat and humidity, Dr. Raimer said. An additional $51 million worth of equipment was damaged in the complex's clinics.
 To make matters worse, the hospital moved about 400 patients to other hospitals and estimated it would lose about $276 million in revenues as a result. The medical center employs more than 8,000 people, he said.
 Mr. Cernak said the port, which covers more than 800 acres, and employs 3,000 people, suffered significant damage. To restore the port to what it was before the storm will take at least a half-billion dollars, Mr. Cernak said. But he added that with temporary repairs the port could be operating at about three-quarters of capacity within a month. ''That's just operating on a Band-Aid,'' he said.
 Galveston officials are also requesting that the federal government release 600 acres on the city's eastern side known as the East End Flats, which the Army Corps of Engineers uses to dump dredge material, Mr. LeBlanc said. The city wants to develop the property, which is by the seawall and levees, to expand its tax base. It was undamaged by Hurricane Ike.
 ''We're simply asking for it back,'' he said. ''If this is the catalyst to help break that loose, so to speak, then so be it.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a request from officials in Galveston, Tex., to Congress for about $2.2 billion in disaster relief misstated the number of patients evacuated from the University of Texas Medical Branch to other hospitals because of Hurricane Ike. It was 296, not ''about 400.'' 
 Because of an editing error, the article underestimated the staff of the medical center. In addition to about 8,000 employees on Galveston Island, it employees about 4,000 elsewhere. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The University of Texas Medical Branch is seeking $609 million after Hurricane Ike damaged buildings and equipment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BEACHES (75%); APPROVALS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (51%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (51%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



677 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: With Bailout Picture Unclear, Markets Tumble

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Fresh concerns about the biggest government bailout in history sent stock markets down sharply on Monday, while a weakening dollar sparked a frantic rush into commodities as investors remained nervous about the health of Wall Street.
 The Dow Jones industrials closed down 372 points, or 3.3 percent, at 11,015.69 after spending the day deep in negative territory. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished down 3.8 percent. Commodities and precious metals, including gold, silver and copper, all posted strong gains as investors sought to hedge against the declining dollar. 
 Capping a volatile day, oil prices jumped 16 percent -- their largest one-day gain -- to finish at $120.92 a barrel. Some analysts said the surge was largely a fluke caused by thin trading on the day that a key futures contract expired. The more liquid November contract also rose, but it posted a more modest gain of 6 percent, settling at $108.97 a barrel. 
 ''It's crazy,'' said Bart Melek, a commodities analyst at BMO Capital Markets. ''It certainly reinforces the Chinese saying, 'May you live in interesting times.' It's certainly turning out to be a curse.''
 A sense of unease settled over the market as investors fretted about the size and details of the government's $700 billion bailout plan and concerns that it could drive up inflation and further depress the dollar. The dollar fell to $1.4804 against the euro in late New York trading, compared with $1.4470 late on Friday. 
 Investors seeking safety showed a preference for commodities like gold, moving away from Treasury bills. The moves implied that investors considered traditional hedges like precious metals to be more reliable than debt issued by the government, which could face a spiraling debt from the bailout plan. 
 ''The unknowns still seem to be ruling,'' said Ryan Detrick, a strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. And Tom Bentz, an energy analyst at BNP Paribas, said, ''What can I say? Every market is just out of control right now.''
 The concerns on Monday were centered on Washington, where President Bush urged Congress to pass the bailout package by the end of the week. The proposed legislation would provide sweeping powers to the Treasury Department to buy bad assets from financial firms.
 But Democrats have started questioning the plan, particularly the broad authority it seeks to confer on the Treasury. Some lawmakers said they wanted to include limits on executive compensation at financial firms and support for middle-class homeowners as part of the legislation. 
 The administration and some Republican lawmakers warned about the consequences of a protracted political battle that could delay the plan. Questions also remained about who would place a value on the bad assets and whether taxpayers would ultimately be able to profit from the enterprise. 
 Wall Street, meanwhile, remained in flux. With so much riding on the outcome of the political maneuvering this week, investors were wary of putting money into financial companies before having a more clear sense of the outcome. Shares of Bank of America, Citigroup and Wachovia all fell.
 Shares of Goldman Sachs fell 7 percent, and Morgan Stanley rose slightly after reports that Japan's largest bank, the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, planned to buy a large stake in the bank. 
 ''We've seen such dramatic changes in the financial landscape in recent days, it's understandable why there's caution in the market,'' said Martin van Vliet, an economist at the ING Group in Amsterdam.
 A ban on short-selling of financial stocks, or betting that their prices will fall, was enacted on Friday by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and several giants of the industry were added on Monday to the list of protected companies, including General Electric and General Motors.
 Shares of Microsoft rose after the company said it would increase its dividend and buy back up to $40 billion in shares.
 On the commodity markets, oil led the surge; in recent days it has reversed weeks of decline. Oil prices had been falling from their record set this summer as slowing economic growth hurt oil consumption. After spending more than six months above $100 a barrel, the price had fallen to $91.50 a barrel on Sept. 16. But the relief appeared to have been short-lived.
 Some experts said that the record on Monday, with a market that spiked as much as $25 a barrel at one point in a frantic last hour of trading, was an anomaly caused by thin trading and the fact that contracts to deliver oil in October expired at the end of the day. 
 Trading is often more volatile when a contract is scheduled to expire because traders rush to cover their positions. The contracts traded on Monday represented less than 5 percent of those traded a week ago.
 ''This is not speculation, but quite the contrary, it's actually a lack of liquidity,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing partner at PFC Energy in Washington. ''It's a fluke.''
 The New York Mercantile Exchange briefly halted electronic trading after prices breached the $10 daily limit, but trading resumed a short time later after the limit was increased to $20. 
 The spike in commodity prices came amid a heated debate over the effects of market deregulation and financial speculation on commodities. Stepping ahead of any potential criticism, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it was ''closely monitoring'' the oil price movement.
 The commission's ''enforcement staff will scour today's trading activity to determine whether anyone engaged in illegal manipulative activity,'' Stephen J. Obie, the acting director of that division, said in a statement. ''No one should be trying to game our nation's commodity futures markets.'' 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury bill was down 6/32, at 101 11/32, and the yield, which moves opposite its price, was 3.84 percent, up from 3.81 percent late Friday. 
 Some investors said they were heartened by the steps the government took last week, although they cautioned that the crisis had not passed. ''What has happened is a step in the right direction, and it feels like we're at the beginning of the end of the crisis,'' Mr. van Vliet said. ''But it's going to be a long road.'' 
 Following are the results of the auction on Monday of three-month and six-month Treasury bills: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oil prices surged 16 percent on Monday, a record gain, but that was attributed partly to low trading volume. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C1)
As investors tried to hedge against the falling dollar and moved from Treasury bills, they drove up commodities and precious metals, including gold and silver. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C11) CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg.C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); FUTURES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (60%); EURO (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



678 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: 'White Flight' Has Reversed, Census Finds

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The proportion of New York City residents who are white and non-Hispanic rose slightly last year, reversing more than a half-century of so-called white flight from the city, according to census figures released on Tuesday. 
 The share of non-Hispanic whites in the city had been shrinking since at least 1940. As the overall population grew, their ranks declined by 361,000 in the 1990s alone. Since 2000, though, their number has increased by more than 100,000. Half of that increase was recorded from 2006 to 2007. 
 ''The fact that it is not going down is the news,'' said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division at the Department of City Planning. ''The increase is small, but the relative stability of the number and percent is meaningful.'' 
 He described the turnaround as a testament to the city's ''diversity and ethnic heterogeneity'' and said it ''sets New York apart from many other older cities where this is not the case.''
 Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College, called the apparent trend a potential ''harbinger of racial equilibrium.'' 
 But he cautioned that it could be short-lived given the turmoil on Wall Street, because ''a lot of the non-Hispanic whites are plainly associated with the financial community.''
 Meanwhile, the influx of Hispanic people, who have fueled New York City's recent population explosion, has leveled off since 2006 as the pace of immigration has generally slowed nationwide. According to the Census Bureau's estimates, the share of Hispanic people in the city in 2007 dipped, if barely, for the first time in decades -- a decline that was more pronounced in Manhattan and Brooklyn than in nearly any other county in the country. 
 Hispanic people account for 27 percent of the population. Asians, who account for nearly 12 percent of New Yorkers, had been the fastest-growing group in the city, but were outpaced last year by non-Hispanic whites, who inched up past 35 percent of the population. The proportion of blacks dipped to 23.5 percent. 
 While the foreign-born population nationally advanced to 12.6 percent (the highest percentage since 1920), a record high of more than 38 million, from 2006 to 2007, the number of immigrants declined in 14 states, including New Jersey and Connecticut.
 Nationally, the number rose by about 512,000 in 2007 compared with an annual average increase of nearly a million since the beginning of the decade. New Jersey and Illinois fell from the list of states with the biggest gain in immigrants, displaced by Arizona and Pennsylvania.
 ''New York City may be drawing in fewer fresh-off-the-boat -- or, more accurately, fresh-off-the-airplane -- Hispanic arrivals,'' said Nancy Foner, a sociology professor at Hunter College. ''At the same time, there's been movement out of New York City among longer-term Latino immigrant residents to suburbs, exurbs and even further afield in search of cheaper housing and better schools and in response to job opportunities elsewhere in the country. 
 ''Even when economic times are rough in New York, they are even more difficult in the Caribbean and Latin America, so people there still want to come to the U.S.,'' she said. ''And many continue to head for New York, where they have friends and family. And jobs, although perhaps less plentiful and harder to get, are still available.''
 The Census Bureau's annual American Community Survey of social, economic and housing statistics also found that about half the residents of metropolitan Los Angeles and Miami over age 5 (and about one in five Americans in that age group nationally) do not speak English at home and that about 31 percent of immigrants were born in Mexico.
 Median home values rose in price by 2 percent from 2006 to 2007, the lowest increase in several years, the survey said. Homeowners with mortgages in California and New Jersey recorded the highest median monthly housing costs ($2,314 and $2,278, respectively).
 The share of owners and renters paying more than 30 percent of their income on housing costs generally dipped in New York City and rose in the suburbs.
 Even with gas prices more than doubling from 2000 to 2007, the proportion of commuters driving to work alone in 2007 -- 76 percent -- remained the same as when the decade began.
 As for the decline in the pace of immigration, demographers attributed the decrease to several factors, including stricter enforcement against illegal immigrants and the beginnings of a recession that dissuaded some people from coming to America and drove others to return home. An analysis by William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution, found that of those 14 states, seven recorded losses among Hispanic immigrants and 10 among Asians. In several, including Connecticut and Illinois, the number of foreign-born whites declined. 
 Dr. Frey found that the influx of Hispanic immigrants declined last year to about 350,000 from more than 500,000 annually during the rest of the decade so far. 
 ''Over all,'' he said, ''these trends reflect a reaction to employment downturns in previously fast-growing states that provided jobs in construction, retail and meatpacking, like Colorado and New Mexico, as well as poorer job prospects in traditional magnet states like New Jersey, Florida and Illinois.''
 ''More so than in the past,'' he said, ''it seems that the geography of immigrants has been determined by the economy.''
 Jeffrey S. Passell, senior demographer of the Pew Hispanic Center, said the slowdown appeared to mirror a similar decline earlier in the decade and may have accelerated since the 2007 American Community Survey. 
 ''What we saw in 2002 was a drop, especially in Mexican immigration and especially illegal -- 30 percent or so, and we attributed it mainly to the economy,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: POPULATION CHANGES: The rate of growth of the city's Hispanic population has declined steadily since the 1980s
 it nearly disappeared in 2007. The proportion of non- Hispanic whites is increasing. (Source: U.S. Census) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



679 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Would You Ask a Psychic for Stock Tips? More Often, Clients Do

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

 BODY:
''Are you unhappy and discouraged? Do you experience more bad luck than usual?'' These words on a flier stuck inside a subway car last week packed with commuters seemed to speak to the general feeling of anxiety stoked by the extraordinary financial roller coaster ride the country has been on. The advertisement for a psychic went on to promise ''24-hour results to any problem guaranteed.''
 There are hundreds of storefront clairvoyants and high-end spiritual advisers in the city ready to quench the thirst for insights into the forces that control one's life. 
 And now with the turmoil engulfing the financial markets, some psychics say they have been experiencing a boom in business linked to deep worries about money. 
 ''It used to be always love, love, love. Now it's money, money, money,'' said Mary T. Browne, who was once described by Forbes magazine as ''Wall Street's psychic adviser,'' because she counts people with financial sector jobs, as well as celebrities, among her clients. ''You can't think about love when you can't pay the rent. Love is great until you're focused on survival, but no one seems to have a safe haven anymore.''
 Ms. Browne, 50, is careful to distinguish herself from what she calls ''storefront gypsies who take advantage of people's fear.'' Often dressed in Chanel, she has been telling fortunes for 28 years, working out of her office in Manhattan's meatpacking district and her home in Woodbury, Conn., charging $400 per reading. She said her psychic ability came to her when she was 7 and helping to answer phones at her family's funeral parlor in Iowa. Ms. Browne said she saw the spirit of a woman rearranging the flowers around her own coffin. She recalled her grandmother telling her, ''You have the gift.''
 Ms. Browne has received many thank-you cards recently, including two from clients whom she said she dissuaded from leaving their jobs 18 months ago for higher paying positions at Bear Stearns. ''This was way before the rumblings of its demise,'' she said. Bear Stearns, facing potential bankruptcy, was bought by JPMorgan Chase & Company in the spring and many of its workers lost their jobs.
 For the past several years, Ms. Browne has been big on gold as an investment. ''An image comes into my head after someone asks me a question,'' Ms. Browne explained. She recalled advising a client who had lost a lot of money but was able to earn it back by following her advice. ''All I could see when I looked at him was gold bars, gold jewelry,'' she said.
 In an apartment in the East Village, opposite Tompkins Square Park, another psychic, Rosanna Schaffer-Shaw, a former belly dancer, offers her insights under the name Fahrusha, which she translates from Arabic to mean butterfly or moth. ''I prefer butterfly,'' said Ms. Schaffer-Shaw, who specializes in tarot card reading and palmistry, as well as photograph interpretation and communicating with animals. 
 ''People are concerned about their jobs,'' said Ms. Schaffer-Shaw, sitting in her brightly painted pink room devoted to readings, where she charges $150 per session. On a shelf were a couple of crystal balls, candles and a feather. ''I hear more questions about jobs lasting even if the person is not in the financial sector,'' she said.
 On a recent afternoon, Ms. Schaffer-Shaw advised three clients, all of whom requested that they be identified by a single initial, some because they worried that their turning to a psychic might cause problems at work. 
 Mr. S was an artist who said he hoped to reap a windfall from the stronger market for contemporary art. Ms. Schaffer-Shaw told him, ''In the past, you have been neglectful of the business aspects of your career.'' Mr. S laughed and replied, ''Have I ever,'' as Ms. Schaffer-Shaw conjured up the names of Manhattan galleries that might be interested in his artwork.
 She pointed a lavender-painted fingernail to two tarot cards, the Six and the Nine of Pentacles: ''This card says you are worried about your finances. You won't want to spend money on luxury items. You also will not be able to be as generous to others as you would like.'' She advised against buying stock in financial firms and urged him to consider investing in utilities or water purification systems. 
 Ms. E, who is planning a business venture with another client of Ms. Schaffer-Shaw's, a Chinese investment banker, asked questions about the Shanghai economy, where the two plan to open a frozen yogurt company. She wanted to know whether the media stock she had bought on the Chinese market would go up after its recent loss, and even what flavors and toppings her company should offer.
 Then there was Mr. P, who until recently held an executive position at a major financial firm at the center of the mortgage meltdown. ''I don't really know these companies,'' Ms. Schaffer-Shaw admitted. ''But I meditate on them, throw some cards on them. I always tell my clients there are no guarantees.''
 Mr. P appeared skittish sitting in an office chair across from Ms. Schaffer-Shaw. ''I've used her in a number of situations, and she's been remarkably accurate,'' he said, explaining that he worries about medical coverage for his family. ''Currently, I'm caught up in the chaotic financial situation. I am very concerned about my next move in regards to my personal portfolio.''
 Mr. P posed his first question: ''Should I discontinue my relationship with my employer?'' (He had been offered another position at the same firm.) Ms. Schaffer-Shaw laid out three cards. ''Probably not,'' she said. More questions: ''Should I move to Puerto Rico?'' ''Should I write a book about what I know?'' ''Is there any possibility I will be in jail in five years?'' ''Is the information I know sufficient to protect me?'' ''Should I retire?''
 Sensing his anxiety, Ms. Schaffer-Shaw pointed to the cards and exclaimed, ''You got the Ace of Happiness!'' After Mr. P left, she said that while she was always straightforward about what she reads in the tarot cards, she tried to couch negative prognostications in positive terms and make clear to her clients the role free will plays in their lives. ''When I see things are dismal, I feel compelled to make things better,'' she said. ''I tell people the truth, but I try to tell the truth on the upside. With an extraordinary will, a person can change their future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rosanna Schaffer-Shaw, a psychic known as Fahrusha, offers a general caveat: ''I always tell my clients there are no guarantees.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); DISMISSALS (67%); FINE JEWELRY (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



680 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: South African's Resignation Poses Risks for Zimbabwe Power-Sharing Deal

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: HARARE, Zimbabwe 

 BODY:
Thabo Mbeki's resignation as president of South Africa could hardly have come at a worse time for Zimbabwe, where he had just brokered a power-sharing deal that has now reached a pivotal -- and perilous -- moment, analysts say.
 Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of Zimbabwe's opposition and the prime minister-designate, said Monday that the fall of Mr. Mbeki, the region's most influential politician, was a blow to Zimbabwe.
 But he also said it was now incumbent on the African leaders who named Mr. Mbeki the mediator for Zimbabwe to ensure that the promise of the deal was fulfilled, despite the uncertainty about whether Mr. Mbeki would continue in the role.
 ''I think they're aware of their responsibility to complete the negotiations,'' said Mr. Tsvangirai, who spoke with serious understatement during an interview in the private study of his home here in the capital. The interview was Mr. Tsvangirai's first since Mr. Mbeki was effectively fired by his own party just days after triumphantly concluding the Zimbabwe agreement. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai, 56, and Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, 84, are at an impasse in the first crucial test of Mr. Mugabe's willingness to relinquish some of the complete control he has exercised during 28 years in power. Mr. Mugabe did not enter negotiations until July, after African election monitors concluded that a June runoff was not free or fair and African leaders insisted on talks. He said at the signing ceremony for the agreement that he was committed to it.
 When Mr. Mugabe and Mr. Tsvangirai met on Thursday, Mr. Tsvangirai said, he proposed that their parties, the governing ZANU-PF and the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, equally divide the most critical ministries, with, for example, Mr. Mugabe's party retaining the army and the opposition taking the police. Given the broken economy, Mr. Tsvangirai said he believed that the opposition should pick the head of the Finance Ministry, but Mr. Mugabe did not agree.
 ''They wanted everything, all the key ministries,'' Mr. Tsvangirai said. 
 There are signs that Mr. Mugabe, known as a canny, ruthless survivor of challenges to his authority, may be resisting genuine power-sharing. The question is whether he is still guided by the slogan he used during this year's disputed election, still visible on posters: ''This is the final battle for total control.'' 
 Mr. Mugabe left Harare on Friday to attend the United NationsGeneral Assembly in New York with an entourage that included his wife and son, but not Mr. Tsvangirai, who is supposed to become his partner in governing. Mr. Tsvangirai acknowledged that the authorities had yet to provide him with a passport some three months after he ran out of pages for new visa stamps, though he hopes they will soon.
 When informed that the American ambassador, James D. McGee, had said the United States had issued visas for 54 people in Mr. Mugabe's entourage, Mr. Tsvangirai let out a long whistle of amazement. 
 In a country where about a third of the people will be hungry and in need of food aid by next month, Eddie Cross, an official in the opposition party, was less circumspect. In a letter posted on a Zimbabwe blog, Mr. Cross wrote that Mr. Mugabe, oblivious to his people's suffering, had simply packed his bags and departed with his entourage, ''taking with them a pile of U.S. dollars to spend on 10 days of luxury and completely unproductive personal extravagance.''
 More worrisome to analysts here was a vituperative column on Saturday in the state-owned newspaper, The Herald. Journalists and politicians here widely assume that the author, who used the pen name Nathaniel Manheru, was George Charamba, Mr. Mugabe's spokesman.
 The column said the power-sharing agreement had no legal force and might ''collapse any day.'' It said the deal gave the president the power to appoint ministers after consulting the prime minister and others. ''He does not have to adopt their views,'' the columnist wrote.
 But Mr. Tsvangirai said that what most disturbed him was language in the column that he said promoted hatred. It described his celebratory supporters gathering as their leaders ''were further swelling their already distended stomachs.'' The writer mocked the opposition for its euphoria over the prospect that Mr. Tsvangirai might become prime minister as the agreement itself specified.
 After an election season in which thousands of opposition supporters were beaten in state-sponsored attacks and more than 100 killed, opposition officials said they found another comment chilling. The columnist wrote that the deal's provision for an independent audit of farms given out in an often violent land reform program ''is sure to draw blood redder than the setting sun.''
 Mr. Tsvangirai was careful to say that he did not believe that the author spoke for Mr. Mugabe.
 Nonetheless, he added: ''If what he has printed in the paper is the attitude of ZANU-PF, we might as well review our position. If that is the spirit in which we go into this marriage, it has finished before it has started.''
 Mr. Tsvangirai said he regretted that ministries were not divided between the parties before he and Mr. Mugabe signed their deal, but he said he had Mr. Mbeki's assurances that the matter would be quickly resolved. 
 Mr. Mbeki, however, may not be around to finish the job. Tomaz A. Salomao, executive secretary of the Southern African Development Community, which named Mr. Mbeki mediator, said Monday that the organization would not know if he would continue in that role until it was formally informed by South Africa. 
 The opposition has long mistrusted Mr. Mbeki, believing he was an ally of Mr. Mugabe's and hoping his likely successor, Jacob Zuma, backed by trade unions that have rallied behind Mr. Tsvangirai, might be more effective in pushing its cause.
 But in the end it was Mr. Mbeki who fashioned the deal that Mr. Tsvangirai signed. And it was Mr. Mbeki, attacked at home for a flawed legacy, who had much to gain by bringing Zimbabwe's crisis to a peaceful end. But now with the political turmoil in South Africa, the question is whether it will be too distracted to attend to Zimbabwe's problems.
 ''There is no one within S.A.D.C. of Mbeki's stature to engage the issues and knock heads together,'' said Iden Wetherell, senior editor at The Independent, a newspaper in Harare. ''I can't see Zuma, with his complete absence of diplomatic experience and lack of familiarity with Zimbabwe's crisis, playing the same role.''
 Mr. Tsvangirai said he believed that Mr. Mugabe would ultimately agree to a fair division of ministries and that regional leaders would help make that happen. ''I'm very hopeful that the deal will come through and that we can start the process of rebuilding the country,'' he said.
 A large card displayed in Mr. Tsvangirai's study said, ''I wish a long life to my enemies so they may see all my successes.'' Mr. Mugabe has certainly had a long life, but whether he will live to see Mr. Tsvangirai wield real power has yet to be settled.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Arthur Mutambara
Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's president
Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe's prime minister designate
 and Thabo Mbeki, South Africa's president, on Sept. 15. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TSVANGIRAYI MUKWAZHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); ELECTION MONITORING (50%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (92%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



681 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Anxious Investors Push Dow Down 372 Points

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM. 
Keith Bradsher and Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply and oil prices suddenly spiked on Monday as investors anxiously waited for Washington lawmakers to hash out the details of the biggest government bailout in history -- a politically fraught process that will create a new slate of winners and losers on Wall Street. 
 That uncertainty, about a shaken financial system still in flux, appeared to spook investors away from assets tied directly to the health of the American government. The dollar dropped sharply against the euro, and oil prices jumped, closing up more than $16 a barrel. 
 The Dow Jones industrials closed down 372 points after spending the day deep in negative territory. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished down 3.8 percent.
 ''What can I say? Every market is just out of control right now,'' said Tom Bentz, an energy analyst at BNP Paribas. 
 Analysts had trouble finding reasons for the sudden $25 rise in the price of oil, which rocketed up to more than $130 a barrel just days after falling below the century mark. 
 Some pointed to the expiration of a key contract on Monday in the futures market, which forced investors who bet against oil prices to liquidate their positions, causing a spike. 
 Others said that oil and commodities offered a safe haven for money during the current tumult, and a convenient hedge against the dropping dollar. Treasury yields rose slightly, a sign that investors are moving out of the ultra-safe government notes -- and possibly implying concern that American government debt will be less reliable upon completion of the $700 billion bailout plan. 
 ''This move is unprecedented,'' Mr. Bentz said of the move in oil. ''I'm trying to make real fundamental sense out of it, but it's pretty hard to do right now.''
 Much of Monday's focus was on Washington, where the Bush administration is hoping that Congress will pass its $700 billion bailout package by the end of the week. The current legislation would provide sweeping powers to the Treasury Department to buy up bad assets from financial firms in exchange for greater regulatory oversight.
 Democrats in Congress are eager to include limits on executive compensation and support for middle-class homeowners as part of the legislation, but President Bush and other Republicans say that could set up a political battle that will delay an urgent plan. Questions also remain about who will place a value on the bad assets and whether taxpayers will ultimately be able to profit from the enterprise.
 At stake is the future of Wall Street: risk thresholds, regulatory mechanisms, the size of salaries and bonuses, even the daily rituals of how financial business gets done. Lobbyists from major Wall Street firms have already descended on the Capitol in hopes of influencing the shape of the new law. 
 With so much riding on this week's events, some investors seemed wary of putting money into financial companies before they have a clearer sense of the outcome. Shares of Bank of America, Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Wachovia all traded lower. 
 The declines came despite the moves by Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to transform themselves into traditional bank holding companies, in a bid to calm investors' concerns about their highly leveraged business models. 
 Shares of Goldman were off 7 percent, and Morgan Stanley barely eked out a gain after reports that the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Japan's largest bank, planned to buy a substantial stake in the bank.
 ''We've seen such dramatic changes in the financial landscape in recent days,'' said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. ''It's understandable why there's caution in the market.'' 
 Volume was much lower on financial stocks, suggesting that many investors are holding off on making bets on the companies until they find out more about the bailout plan.
 A ban on betting against financial stocks, enacted on Friday by the Securities and Exchange Commission, remains in place, and several giants of industry were added to the list of protected companies, including General Electric and General Motors. 
 Shares of Microsoft were higher after the company said it would increase its dividend and buy back up to $40 billion in shares.
 ''What has happened is a step in the right direction and it feels like we're at the beginning of the end of the crisis,'' Mr. van Vliet said. ''But it's going to be a long road.'' 
 In Europe, stock indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris ended the day lower after shedding earlier gains. The CAC-40 declined 2.3 percent in Paris, the German DAX was down 1.3 percent and the FTSE-100 in London fell 1.4 percent. 
 Earlier, shares in Asia jumped as investors from Japan to New Zealand took their cues from Friday's 400-point rally on Wall Street. A ban on short-selling in Australia contributed to an especially large rise in share prices there. 
 In Asia, the Nikkei 225 stock Index climbed 1.4 percent, the Kospi Index increased 0.3 percent in Seoul and the Standard & Poor's/Australia Stock Exchange 200 Index leaped 4.5 percent after opening a half-hour late. 
 The yen and the euro posted gains against the dollar. Yields on the three-month Treasury bill were under 1 percent, as investors continued to search for a safe haven. The rate for overnight borrowing between banks also eased somewhat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); FUTURES (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); EURO (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (57%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



682 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: A U.S. Step Toward State-Run Investments

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The largest sovereign fund in the world has about $600 billion and is located in the oil-rich emirate of Abu Dhabi. 
 It could soon be surpassed by a fund in the United States.
 The Treasury Department proposes to create a $700 billion fund with a mandate to buy depressed mortgage assets, but the fund will share many characteristics of the expanding government-sponsored pools known as sovereign funds. Singapore, China, Kuwait, Russia and other countries have used the funds in recent years to channel their surplus riches into private companies.
 The new fund, assuming it is approved by Congress, could pull the United States deeper into a form of capitalism in which the most powerful financial entities are not risk-happy investment banks, but more cautious state-sponsored entities. While not necessarily a third economic way, this general approach presumes that the government -- in addition to the private sector -- plays a crucial role in deciding how best to deploy a nation's investment capital. 
 ''This gets to the point of state capitalism and defining what the role of the government is in a free-market economy,'' said Douglas Rediker, a former investment banker who studies sovereign funds at the New America Foundation in Washington. 
 The fund's mandate is supposed to run out after two years. But the next administration might find a $700 billion fund an attractive fixture, and give it a more flexible mandate, while facing a landscape heavy with sovereign funds.
 Until the last few weeks, the United States government generally did not hold positions in public companies, and critics of sovereign funds questioned why those government-sponsored funds should be allowed to do so. The critics cited unease especially over investments in crucial industries. ''That argument no longer holds,'' Mr. Rediker said. 
 The new fund follows the federal government's outright takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance agencies, and a planned equity stake in the American International Group, the global insurance company.
 There are differences: sovereign funds general invest their surpluses and in many cases go abroad for financial diversification, not to seek control of a foreign business. By contrast, the Treasury will have to borrow its $700 billion and it will be making no investments overseas.
 Most wealth funds claim that their motives are purely commercial and that they make investments only in search of the best return. Yet many have done poorly lately, partly because they were lured into premature investments in troubled institutions.
 The Treasury fund will, by definition, be pulled in different directions. While it will pay lip service to the idea of buying assets at the lowest prices, it has an openly political and economic mandate: avoiding a broader financial collapse by extending a lifeline to financial institutions hobbled by toxic mortgage assets.
 Several sovereign funds have made clear that their goals are also political and are aimed at advancing national economic goals.
 In Singapore, China and Korea, such a notion has a deep history -- a legacy of countries that evolved economically through policies that protected strategic industries until they were ready to compete internationally. And in the more authoritarian Middle East, the government has always driven core economic decisions. 
 The Qatar Investment Authority, for example, is a $60 billion fund managed by the country's foreign minister, Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber al-Thani. Its investment criteria including providing ''added value to the state of Qatar'' and ''economic synergies or benefits for Qatar and its people,'' according to its advertisements.
 Edwin M. Truman, a long-time student of global finance at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said that many sovereign funds were established to provide support for their domestic economies. He cites the intervention of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Hong Kong's central bank, into the local stock market in 1998; it bought $120 billion worth of stock in what turned out to be a successful battle against speculators. 
 ''We have always had this aversion to the government's role in the economy, yet we don't always practice what we preach,'' Mr. Truman said. ''It is not inappropriate to make this analogy.'' Some of the original wealth funds may start looking more like the Treasury's fund. As their home markets have wobbled in recent weeks, pressures have built for a few funds to come to the rescue.
 The Kuwait Investment Authority, a $250 billion fund founded in 1953, said that, at the government's request, it would invest as much as $1 billion to prop up sinking stocks in Kuwait. In Russia, government officials have poured money into investments and have debated using their country's $32 billion fund to support a falling stock market.
 The Treasury fund has the benefit of starting to buy at what may well be the rock bottom, because its prices are likely to set a floor for mortgage assets. That puts it in a stronger position than the sovereign funds that bought shares in Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and Merrill Lynch, only to see their positions fall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Doha Securities Market in Qatar. In the Middle East, soveriegn funds are open about political and economic mandates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARIM JAAFAR/AGENECE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (61%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%); GLOBAL INSURANCE CO LTD (63%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); QATAR (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



683 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 552 words

 BODY:
NEARING A DEAL The Bush administration and Congressional leaders have moved closer to an agreement on a $700 billion bailout for financial firms, but lawmakers in both parties voiced anger over the steep cost and skepticism about the plan's chances of success. 
 HELP, BUT WHAT KIND? Most economists say the nation's financial crisis is so perilous that an expensive intervention is required. Considerable disagreement centers on how to go about it. [A1.] 
 CRISIS HURTS RETIREES As companies have switched from fixed pensions to 401(k) accounts, retirees risk losing much of their wealth and income in a single day's trading -- and many have. [A1.] 
 STOCKS DOWN SHARPLY AGAIN Concern about the government bailout reverberated through Wall Street, sending stock markets down sharply as nervous investors turned to commodities. Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished down 3.8 percent. And the price of oil rose $16.37. [C1.] 
 READYING TO BE REGULATEDMorgan Stanley sells a part of itself to a Japanese company for $8 billion as it and Goldman Sachs prepare to enter the realm of the regulated. [C1.] 
 SUIT AGAINST RESERVE FUND A suit claims the Reserve Fund tipped off some customers about its crisis in advance so that they could get their cash out. [C1.] 
 THE RIGHT MOVES? Is the government's proposed bailout and the way it is being pushed down everyone's throat at the eleventh hour the right way to go? DealBook, Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 CRITICAL RETAIL SEASON Many retailers face their most critical holiday season since the recession of the early 1980s. [C1.]
 NO LONGER OBSCURE When executives from Google and T-Mobile introduce the first mobile phone powered by Google's software on Tuesday, the event will be a coming-out party of sorts for an obscure but no less ambitious company. [C1.]
 WARNING ON FORECLOSURES Some housing experts are warning that the government's bailout plan might do little to help troubled borrowers stay in their homes. [A22.] 
 REMAKING WALL STREET With the news of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs becoming regulated bank holding companies, look for a major transformation of Wall Street to smaller profits and bonuses. [C8.]
 REGULATING SWAPS Gov. David A. Paterson has decided that New York will begin regulating credit-default swaps, the arcane financial instruments. [C10.]
 WHAT SWEDEN DID When Sweden had a banking crisis after the collapse of a housing bubble, its government took a different course than the one proposed for the United States. [C9.] 
 LIKE A SOVEREIGN FUND The Treasury Department's plan to create a $700 billion fund to buy depressed mortgage assets calls into question what the role of the government is in a free-market economy. [C9.] 
 KRAWCHECK OUT AT CITIGROUP Sallie L. Krawcheck, the most prominent woman left on Wall Street after the departure of two other high-ranking women, has been pushed out at Citigroup. [C7.] 
 MORE TRAVEL, LESS ENJOYABLE Business travelers are going to be enjoying the trip a lot less in the near future. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C5.]
 WITH A COUNTRY BEAT Recent recordings by the singer Phil Vassar and the group Little Big Town made on behalf of Red Roof Inn, a leading budget lodging chain, try to capitalize on the trend of using country music to lure customers. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Oil Prices per barrel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); RECESSION (77%); US 401K PLANS (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); CREDIT REGULATION (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); FORECLOSURE (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (61%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%); MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



684 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: In Fiscal Crisis, Mayor Considers Raising Property Tax 7 Percent

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, worried about the effects of the global financial crisis on New York City's economy, said on Monday that his administration is considering imposing a 7 percent property tax increase on homeowners in January. 
 The mayor said the move, which would generate an additional $600 million in revenue next year and require City Council approval, would help the city weather a worsening fiscal situation.
 New York City is heavily dependent on the financial services industry: An estimated 10 percent of its tax revenues come from Wall Street. 
 Speaking to reporters at a news conference on Monday, Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that an increase would be unpopular, but said that the city might have no choice. 
 ''I said we will look at all the different possibilities, but I think the solution is a combination of expense reduction, which nobody is going to be happy about, and revenue enhancements, which nobody is going to be happy about,'' he said at John F. Kennedy International Airport, where he appeared at the opening of a new JetBlue terminal. ''This is not going to be a feel-good time.''
 The increase -- which would essentially eliminate a popular 7 percent tax cut included in this year's budget -- would appear in quarterly bills sent out in December. It would increase taxes by an average of $308 to $358 annually for residents of co-ops or condominiums in buildings with 11 or more units. 
 For owners of one- to three-family homes, the average tax bill would go up $226 next year, according to the city's Independent Budget Office.
 The mayor has previously said the property tax would probably be raised, but city officials said they had hoped that any increase would occur in the 2010 fiscal year, which begins in July.
 Even before last week's Wall Street crisis, the Bloomberg administration was predicting a budget deficit in the 2010 fiscal year of $2.3 billion.
 ''If you take a look at what has happened over the last couple of weeks and what is likely to happen to our economy, that may not be the size of the deficit,'' Mr. Bloomberg said on Monday, referring to the projected gap. ''It may be greater than that.
 The revenues from raising the property tax in January could give the city a running start next year in tackling rising labor, health care and other costs, he said.
 ''It would bring us a whole other year's revenue and mitigate the problems that we are going to have coming up with a balanced budget for fiscal 2010,'' he added. ''I didn't say that is what we would propose or do. But it is one of the suggestions.''
 Mr. Bloomberg would need the help of the City Council to increase taxes, hardly a sure bet, especially since there will be citywide elections in November 2009. But he expressed confidence.
 ''I don't think that this will be contentious, or at least very contentious, even though it will be a difficult time because I think the City Council really does understand that we are living in a different world than we did a very short period ago,'' he said. ''New York City has an awful lot going for it. We want to make sure that we don't jeopardize or reduce or remove all our advantages.''
 As if to underscore the seriousness of the situation, Mr. Bloomberg said that while he sat next to Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, for a full inning at the final game at Yankee Stadium on Sunday night, ''The economy was the only thing we talked about.''
 When asked on Monday during a press conference at City Hall about the possibility of higher taxes, Ms. Quinn offered an equivocal response.
 ''It is too early today, a week ahead after the collapse of Lehman, to say exactly what we are going or are not going to do, as it relates to services or revenues,'' she said. ''No decisions have been made. That said, obviously these are the most serious times, and in the most serious times, you don't have the luxury of ruling anything out.''
 Meanwhile, in a phone interview on Monday, City Councilman David I. Weprin, a Queens Democrat who is chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, said: ''I don't think you're going to see the Council shouting out for a midyear change, but if the mayor does propose it, it's something we have to look at differently than we did in June.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg is certainly no stranger to taking aggressive action on taxes. In 2002 , also in the middle of a fiscal year, he proposed raising property taxes for the first time in a decade, by 18.5 percent. He won that battle, but his approval ratings suffered.
 In 2007, with the city on better financial footing, he and the City Council agreed to a 7 percent tax cut for homeowners. But this year, in May, as the national economic downturn began to take its toll, Mr. Bloomberg said that he doubted that the city would be able to continue the tax cut beyond July 2009.
 The prospect of higher property taxes can hardly be welcome news for residents reeling from skyrocketing fuel costs and a weakening housing market. 
 Perhaps to soften people up for a tax hike, the mayor has referred to the need to find new revenue sources at least three times in the last week, most recently during his radio address on Friday. 
 One thing that Mr. Bloomberg seemed reluctant to embrace, however, was eliminating a separate $400 property tax rebate. The property tax and the rebates are linked under a state law, though the law could be changed to keep the $400 rebate in place. Eliminating the rebates would not make much of a dent in the deficit.
 ''That's not a particularly great solution to the problem,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Bloomberg, speaking on Monday at Kennedy Airport, said a tax increase, which would require the City Council's approval, could mean an additional $600 million for the city next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); APPROVALS (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); AIRPORTS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (55%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



685 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Chicago, in McCain's Eyes

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Titled ''Chicago Machine,'' this 30-second advertisement for Senator John McCain is currently running online. The McCain campaign said it would run on television nationally. 
 PRODUCER McCain media team. 
 THE SCRIPT A narrator says: ''Barack Obama. Born of the corrupt Chicago political machine.'' A video clip then shows Mr. Obama saying, ''In terms of my toughness, look, first of all, I come from Chicago.'' The narrator continues: ''His economic adviser, William Daley -- lobbyist. Mayor's brother. His money man, Tony Rezko -- client, patron, convicted felon. His 'political godfather,' Emil Jones -- under ethical cloud. His governor, Rod Blagojevich. A legacy of federal and state investigations. With friends like that, Obama is not ready to lead.''
 ON THE SCREEN The spot opens with an image of a dark television screen, which then begins playing a clip of Mr. Obama on MSNBC, his face shrouded in shadows. Then it shows silhouettes of four men, who are revealed one by one to be William M. Daley, the brother of Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago; Antoin Rezko, an Obama fund-raiser who was convicted of fraud; Emil Jones Jr., the president of the Illinois Senate; and Rod R. Blagojevich, the governor of Illinois. The advertisement concludes with a shot of Mr. Obama next to a television screen reading, ''Not Ready to Lead.'' 
 ACCURACY Mr. Obama has ties to all of the men named. And, yes, Mr. Rezko and Mr. Jones, both longtime fixtures in Chicago politics, indeed helped propel his career when he was a state senator. Mr. Jones has been under fire recently for holding up a high-profile ethics reform bill in the Illinois Senate, though it is unclear if that is the ''ethical cloud'' referred to (last week, Mr. Obama called to press him to allow the bill to pass). And yes, Mr. Obama knows Mr. Daley, a lobbyist and brother of the Chicago mayor, and Mr. Blagojevich, who has been investigated by state and federal authorities. The question is how strong and significant those ties are. The advertisement does not address that, using innuendo to imply the ties are deep and sinister. But while the Obama campaign has called it a ''false, gratuitous attack,'' there is nothing that is outright wrong.
 SCORECARD How well this advertisement succeeds in frightening voters about Mr. Obama depends upon how much dark shadows, black silhouettes or his mere knowledge of these men make them quake. It also depends upon if they are satisfied by Mr. Obama's explanations of his relationship with Mr. Rezko, his most dubious tie, after numerous newspaper articles and Republican campaign memorandums have addressed their entwined pasts. Most of all, it depends on whether voters consider ''Chicago-style politics'' something of myth and exaggeration, or something to be feared. JULIE BOSMAN 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); FELONIES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



686 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Europe and Japan Balk at U.S. Request on Bank Aid

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
Europe and Japan turned a cold shoulder on Monday toward a American request that they bail out banks in the manner now being proposed in the United States.
 The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, also took the opportunity to criticize the United States and Britain for opposing German efforts to put greater regulation, or at least reviews, of the financial sector on the international agenda last year, when she was chairwoman of the Group of 7 industrialized nations.
 ''Everyone who produces a real product knows what it looks like and what standards it is up to,'' Ms. Merkel said. ''One also needs to know with a financial product what's involved. Otherwise, these sorts of things happen that we then all have to pay for.'' 
 After an overnight conference call of finance ministries and central banks, the G-7 industrialized nations welcomed Wednesday's bailout program and pledged in a statement to ''enhance international cooperation.''
 But the G-7 also indicated that countries were free to go their own way in grappling with what has become the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.
 ''Each of us remains committed to taking further action, individually and collectively as needed, consistent with our respective domestic circumstances,'' the G-7 statement said.
 That appeared to paper over the obvious cracks between the United States and countries in Europe and Asia, whose economies and banking systems are generally in far better shape than the United States. The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said Sunday that he would ''aggressively'' seek plans from other countries to buy up illiquid assets linked to America's mortgage market.
 German officials explicitly ruled out any German version of Washington's plan, which is expected to cost American taxpayers about $700 billion.
 British officials also made clear that they would not create a fund to buy bad assets, although Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, did promise new rules.
 ''We are putting in place both here in the U.K. and internationally the tougher financial regulation no one can doubt we need,'' Mr. Darling told the governing Labor Party's annual conference in Manchester. ''I will continue to do whatever it takes to maintain financial stability and I remain confident we will do so.''
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who holds the rotating European Union presidency, is expected to elaborate on that message in a speech Thursday, French officials said. Mr. Sarkozy, who was in New York on Monday, has on many occasions complained about the structure of global economic regulation.
 Christian de Boissieu, chairman of the French prime minister's council of economic analysis, said: ''The U.S. must take charge of the budgetary costs of the crisis. I'm all for trans-Atlantic solidarity, but this doesn't include financing the bailout.''
 The Japanese finance minister, Bunmei Ibuki, said after the announcement that he saw no need for Japan to set up an American-style rescue scheme to help its own banks offload bad assets, Reuters reported from Tokyo.
 The German finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, said, ''None of the other six G-7 members will adopt a similar program to the U.S.''
 Apart from a manifest lack of sympathy for a crisis they view as created by American banks and regulators, European governments are also constrained by rules within the 27-nation European Union that limit budget deficits and public debt.
 ''Europe won't do anything because they haven't got the room for maneuver,'' said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, an equity strategist with Charles Stanley in London. ''They ran themselves into a cul-de-sac.''
 Objectively, there is a certain truth in the European position.
 An August study by the Federal Reserve concluded that losses of foreigners holding mortgage-backed securities could eventually be as low as $75 billion, though paper losses would be higher before the market stabilizes. Also, the German government has already pumped billions of euros into several hard-hit banks.
 The Association of German Banks hinted that it would oppose the emerging bailout scheme if it gave American competitors a sudden advantage.
 ''We need to assure that disadvantages for foreign institutions do not arise from the U.S. program,'' said Manfred Weber, executive director of the association. ''It was, after all, American products that created the crisis and that created the contagion effects.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (88%); HENRY PAULSON (56%); ALISTAIR DARLING (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



687 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: McCain, More Critical of Bailout Plan, Faults Oversight

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and PATRICK HEALY; Patrick Healy reported from Green Bay, Wis.

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain struck a sharply more critical tone about the proposed federal bailout of the financial sector on Monday, calling for greater oversight of how the Treasury secretary administers the program because ''when we're talking about a trillion dollars of taxpayer money, 'trust me' just isn't good enough.''
 Aides to Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, said it was too soon to say whether he would oppose the plan being hashed out by the Bush administration and Congress, noting that the final details had yet to be presented. But Mr. McCain repeated his calls to add several provisions that the administration has opposed, including a guarantee that taxpayer money would not be used to enrich the executives of failing companies. 
 ''We won't solve a problem caused by poor oversight with a plan that has no oversight,'' Mr. McCain said here.
 Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, said in a speech in Green Bay, Wis., that officials should ''work quickly, in a bipartisan fashion, to resolve the immediate crisis and avert an even broader economic catastrophe.'' But he, too, warned that the proposal needed more oversight, as well as provisions to help homeowners and distressed communities, to ensure that it was not a ''blank check to Washington.''
 The politics of the proposed $700 billion bailout, which calls for using taxpayer money to take distressed assets off the books of faltering financial firms, pose a challenge to both candidates. Neither man wants to be seen as grandstanding or obstructing what both seem to agree is much-needed action to avert a wider economic crisis. But neither wants to be seen as too closely allied with a costly plan that some view as a rescue of Wall Street firms after they made risky investments. 
 For Mr. McCain, who has sometimes struggled to connect with voters on the economy, the crisis offered a chance to strike a populist tone and buck an unpopular administration. Speaking to a largely Irish-American audience here, Mr. McCain called again for sharply curtailing payouts to the executives of firms that get taxpayer support, a step the administration has warned could limit participation in the program.
 ''We can't have taxpayers footing the bill for bloated golden parachutes like we see in the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy,'' Mr. McCain said. ''My friends, the top executives are asking for $2.5 billion in bonuses after they ran the company into the ground.''
 Aides to Mr. McCain seemed to hold out the possibility that he could wind up opposing the bailout, though they said it was too soon to tell. ''I think at this hour it's a hypothetical question based on a package that doesn't yet exist, as it is being put together,'' Steve Schmidt, who runs day-to-day operations of the campaign, said in a conference call Monday morning with reporters.
 Rick Davis, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, said on the same call that Mr. McCain was troubled by a provision being sought by the administration that would give the Treasury secretary near-total power, immune from the review of courts or agencies, to administer the bailout. 
 Mr. Obama, in Green Bay, signaled his preference that Democrats and Republicans reach a bailout agreement swiftly -- he twice said ''this week'' -- but also called for greater oversight.
 Mr. Obama said he would bar members of an Obama administration from working on regulations or contracts that affected their former employers for two years. He also said he would press Congress to open up committee negotiations over the budget to the public, and he proposed spotlighting tax breaks for corporations on a Web site.
 He also proposed cutting federal spending on contractors by at least 10 percent, saying the government contracting system was rife with abuses and poor oversight, and estimated savings of $40 billion a year.
 If both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain seemed to have found some common ground -- both have said they want more oversight and restrictions on payments to executives whose firms are helped, and both have spoken vaguely about the importance that the plan helps homeowners -- they have also drawn clear lines of political battle as the financial crisis has deepened. 
 Mr. McCain has tried to portray Mr. Obama as lacking in leadership qualities, and Mr. Obama has sought to portray Mr. McCain as a longtime champion of the kind of deregulation that he said had led to the current crisis. 
 ''He's trying to make up for 26 years in 26 hours, he's flipping so fast,'' Mr. Obama said to laughter from the crowd in Green Bay. ''But with 42 days left, he's had a sudden change of heart -- an election-time conversion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A baby was passed to Barack Obama for a photograph on Monday in Wisconsin after he had spoken about the financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 '''Trust me' just isn't good enough,'' John McCain said Monday in Scranton, Pa., about the Wall Street bailout proposal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (74%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (55%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



688 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Bush Administration Reviews Its Afghanistan Policy, Exposing Points of Contention

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Four months before President Bush leaves office, his top civilian and military aides are conducting four major new reviews of the war strategy and overall mission in Afghanistan, which have exposed internal fissures over American troop levels, how billions of aid dollars are spent, and how to cope with a deteriorating security situation in neighboring Pakistan.
 The most ambitious of the assessments, run by the White House, begins in earnest this week with a series of high-level meetings, administration officials said. Officials have been directed to produce detailed recommendations within two weeks for Mr. Bush and senior advisers on a broad range of security, counterterrorism, political and development issues. Many of the dozen aides interviewed for this article spoke on condition of anonymity because the reviews are continuing. 
 Some of the issues being studied, including proposed increases in American troop levels in Afghanistan, have set off internal debate and could have far-reaching consequences for the next administration.
 Last week, Gen. David D. McKiernan, the top American commander in Afghanistan, said he needed as many as 15,000 combat and support troops beyond the 8,000 additional troops that Mr. Bush had recently approved for deployment early next year. The general's announcement came after he sent his request to the Pentagon; it has not yet been acted on. 
 It was only last December that the administration concluded its last major reassessment of Afghanistan policy. The administration recently announced a series of changes, including plans to double the size of the Afghan Army, restructure the American military command there and put more intelligence analysts on the ground to help hunt down militants from the Taliban and Al Qaeda.
 But administration officials express concern that the earlier adjustments have either failed or been overtaken by changes on the ground. Among other things, they note that the violence by militants in Afghanistan has risen by 30 percent this year; that deaths are rising among allied and American forces and in recent months have outnumbered those in Iraq; and that any successful policy must consider the security and economic conditions in neighboring Pakistan.
 Related to General McKiernan's request, one of the other assessments proposes a military campaign plan for Afghanistan for the next 5 to 10 years, creating long-term requirements for troop levels in the southern and eastern parts of the country, where most of the fighting is taking place, according to one participant in the study. But some American officials say that European allies may balk at these long-term force commitments, potentially leaving the United States to supply an even larger share of the troops. 
 The reviews are also examining how and where the nearly $6 billion in annual United States assistance to Afghanistan is being spent; how to improve the effectiveness of small teams of allied civilians and troops seeded throughout the Afghan provinces to spur economic growth; and how to strike the right balance between taking military action against Qaeda fighters in Pakistan and providing more development aid to that country.
 More broadly, many of these assessments are seeking to improve synchronization across the military and the rest of the government, suggesting that seven years after the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States still cannot marshal its power effectively to prevail in Afghanistan.
 ''I'm not convinced we're winning it in Afghanistan,'' Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress this month. But he added, ''I am convinced we can.''
 As the Bush administration enters its twilight months, many senior national security policy officials and military commanders say there is a new urgency to put the mission in Afghanistan on the right path. Among the reasons are the standard updates required of military strategy in a time of war. But officials acknowledge there are aspects of legacy-building, an effort to make sure the next president, whoever he is, cannot accuse the Bush administration of leaving Afghan policy in disarray.
 ''We'll look at whatever adjustments need to be made to put it on a proper footing for long-term success,'' said Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman.
 Geoff Morrell, spokesman for Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, stressed that the analysis under way for Afghanistan was not as sweeping as the review of Iraq policy by the administration in late 2006 that resulted in the ''surge'' strategy that improved security in Iraq.
 Other reviews under way within the military will ultimately feed into the White House's broader assessment. 
 This summer, the acting commander of the Central Command, Lt. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, sent a top-level team of planners to assist General McKiernan in assessing operations there. Senior officers said that the review undertaken by Central Command and General McKiernan was a full strategy review in everything but name, looking at the proper deployment of troops, the chain of command and even bandwidth requirements for communications and surveillance.
 At the same time, the senior NATO military commander, Gen. John Craddock, has undertaken a review of the foundering NATO security mission in Afghanistan.
 General Craddock's review, which a senior Pentagon official said would be completed before the end of the month, was meant to take on the central question of whether NATO has supplied sufficient troops and equipment to fulfill the mission.
 And just two weeks ago, Admiral Mullen told Congress he had ordered a comprehensive military strategy review to address the border region between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Finally, another review is expected. Gen. David H. Petraeus quietly made a fact-finding trip to Afghanistan before handing off command of the war in Iraq last week to take over Central Command, according to senior American officers in the region.
 While General Petraeus has not discussed his plans for Afghanistan, officials said that, as he did when assuming command in Iraq, he would bring in a trusted group of field-grade officers, led by Col. H. R. McMaster, to analyze the campaign and offer a fresh assessment for the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); AL-QAEDA (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



689 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall as Rescue Plan Is Negotiated

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; David Stout, Carl Hulse and Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
This article was reported by David M. Herszenhorn, Stephen Labaton and Mark Landler, and written by Mr. Herszenhorn.
 WASHINGTON -- Senate and House Democratic leaders said on Monday that they had reached an agreement on their conditions for approving a $700 billion rescue plan for the financial system, including more oversight of the program and a requirement that the government do more to help troubled borrowers refinance their mortgages. 
 But even as Congressional Democrats and the administration began to narrow their differences, Democrats are bracing for a battle over efforts to limit the pay of executives whose firms seek help and over whether to grant bankruptcy judges authority to modify the mortgages of borrowers in danger of foreclosure. 
 Investors were skeptical. Concerns that the bailout plan may not move smoothly through Congress contributed to the anxiety in the markets that pushed the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 372 points and pushed crude oil up more than $16 a barrel. 
 President Bush on Monday morning urged legislators to resist the temptation to add provisions that, he said, ''would undermine the effectiveness of the plan.'' Still, Treasury officials indicated a willingness to negotiate. 
 Within hours, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said he had reached a general agreement with the Treasury Department over mortgage aid and Congressional oversight. 
 But Mr. Bush may find that members of his own party are among the holdouts. Some conservative Republicans criticized the plan, raising the stakes for Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who has been trying to persuade lawmakers and an increasingly frustrated American public that the rescue package was needed.
 Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, said he expected Republican lawmakers to oppose the plan in increasing numbers. ''I think this is going to be a much bigger fight than he expected,'' Mr. Gingrich said, referring to President Bush, who called again for swift action on Monday morning. ''I think this bill is a long way from done,'' Mr. Gingrich added. 
 Republican leaders who support the administration's plan warned Democrats on Monday to exercise restraint and not slow the bailout package, even as they prepared for an aggressive internal campaign to rally Republican support. 
 ''When there's a fire in your kitchen threatening to burn down your home, you don't want someone stopping the firefighters on the way and demanding they hand out smoke detectors first or lecturing you about the hazards of keeping paint in the basement,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said in a speech on the Senate floor. ''You want them to put out the fire before it burns down your home and everything you've saved for your whole life.''
 Mr. McConnell added: ''The same is true of our current economic situation. We know that there is a serious threat to our economy, and we know that we must take action to try and head off a serious blow to Main Street.''
 The Senate Democrats' proposals includes two bold provisions. One would grant the Treasury ''contingent shares'' of stock in any financial institution that wants to sell bad debt to the government; the other would grant bankruptcy judges the authority to modify the terms of primary mortgages, a step aimed at helping homeowners at risk of foreclosure.
 The bankruptcy provision is staunchly opposed by the banking, lending and securities industries and by many Republicans in Congress, but Democrats insist that it is one of the few mechanisms to provide direct assistance to homeowners caught in the foreclosure crisis.
 The contingent shares would give taxpayers an equity stake in companies seeking help through the rescue program, potentially allowing the government not only to recoup however much of the $700 billion it spends on bad debt, but also to profit should the financial firms prosper in years ahead. The legislation would require the value of the contingent shares to equal the value of the assets purchased by the government.
 The 44-page Senate proposal, pulled together by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the banking committee, would require the Treasury to run the rescue plan through a new ''Office of Financial Stability'' to be headed by an assistant treasury secretary. It would also establish an ''Emergency Oversight Board'' to monitor the bailout effort, made up of the Fed Chairman; the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and two non-government employees with ''financial expertise'' in the public and private sectors, one each appointed by the majority and minority leadership in Congress.
 In addition, the Senate proposal would require monthly reports to Congress, rather than the biannual reports that would be required under the Bush administration's proposal.
 Amid continuing concerns over the deep global ramifications of the crisis, the finance ministers and central bank governors of the Group of Seven major industrial nations said on Monday that they were maintaining ''heightened close cooperation.'' In a joint statement, they pledged to take ''whatever actions may be necessary, individually and collectively, to ensure the stability of the international financial system.''
 The ministers and governors welcomed the ''extraordinary'' actions proposed by American officials to take illiquid assets off bank balance sheets, Reuters reported. But the statement made no other mention of any specific steps to be taken by the group's member nations.
 The Bush administration's proposal could prove to be the largest government bailout of private industry in the nation's history. It calls for nearly unfettered powers for the Treasury secretary in managing the bailout. 
 Though the jittery state of the financial markets put pressure on officials and legislators to move quickly, some lawmakers said they did not want to be rushed into approving extraordinary new powers for the Treasury secretary and the government without full consideration of the consequences.
 Both presidential nominees, who face the prospect of inheriting an enormous program, said there had to be more oversight of the Treasury Department than the Bush administration had proposed.
 Financial companies were already lobbying to broaden the plan. And the Bush administration did indeed widen the scope by allowing the government to buy out assets other than mortgage-related securities as well as making foreign companies eligible for government assistance.
 Banks and traders also braced themselves for another tumultuous week in the markets. But early signs indicate that investors in Asia were reacting positively to the developments in Washington. Meanwhile, top Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill said on Sunday that they would act swiftly on the administration's request, but not without setting their own conditions.
 ''We will not simply hand over a $700 billion blank check to Wall Street and hope for a better outcome,'' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.
 Top administration officials and senior lawmakers said that the markets could be devastated if Congress and the administration failed to reach agreement on the plan.
 Mr. Paulson said he hoped that the government would recoup much of the cost of buying distressed mortgage-related assets. But he did not rule out that the initial cost of the bailout could rise beyond $700 billion, the limit set in the terse proposal sent by the Treasury to Congress on Saturday.
 ''That doesn't mean we'll go all the way there, or it doesn't mean it will stop there and we won't ask for more,'' Mr. Paulson said Sunday on the CBS program, ''Face the Nation.'' ''What we need is something that is big enough to get the job done. We'll ask for what we think is a right amount to give us plenty of flexibility.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOME SECURITY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); SMOKE DETECTORS (65%); FIRES (60%); JUDGES (55%); WAGES & SALARIES (55%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (78%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



690 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Mexican President Enjoys Newfound Freedom to Fly

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
On his way to New York for the United NationsGeneral Assembly meeting on Tuesday, President Felipe Calderon of Mexico will hop on his presidential jet for the very first time without having to ask permission to fire up the engines and go. 
 Until the Constitution was changed over the summer, Mexican presidents had to seek approval from their nation's Congress every time they sought to touch a toe on foreign soil. If the Congress was in an ornery mood, as it was during former President Vicente Fox's term, it could -- and sometimes did -- say no.
 Twice, Mr. Fox was embarrassed when lawmakers told him he could not leave the country. The first time came during a low point in his relations with Congress in 2002, when a trip to the United States and Canada had to be scratched. Soon after, a planned trip to Australia was grounded because the president's critics suggested that Mr. Fox was going there to visit his daughter. A stop in Vietnam for the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting was rejected as well.
 When Mr. Calderon took office in 2006, after a hard-fought election that ended in a virtual tie, many speculated that he would spend much of his six-year term stuck in Mexico. After all, his National Action Party lacks a majority in Congress and some opposition lawmakers do not even recognize him as the country's legitimate president. 
 Things remain so tense that he delivers his annual address to Congress in written form without venturing into the volatile chambers.
 As it turns out, Mr. Calderon managed to use the Presidente Juarez, as the official presidential Boeing 757 is known, for numerous foreign trips, visiting 26 countries in the past 20 months without any congressional interference.
 And the constitutional change, which passed Congress, albeit with plenty of opposition, means that only presidential treks of more than a week will require the president to approach lawmakers with hat in hand. Foreign Minister Patricia Espinosa has said the change will allow more flexibility in presidential travel and ''increase and strengthen the country's work overseas.'' 
 Mr. Calderon, who has his hands full with an escalating drug war and a contentious plan to overhaul the country's energy sector, plans to be back in Mexico by Thursday, well within the deadline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (89%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



691 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: New York to Regulate a Financial Tool Behind the Credit Crisis

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson said Monday that New York would begin regulating credit-default swaps, the arcane financial instruments that were little known outside Wall Street before the credit crisis.
 New state regulations will take effect on Jan. 1, but the governor said New York had jurisdiction to regulate only about a fifth of the sprawling market, and he called on the federal government to take steps of its own to oversee credit-default swaps, which have gone unregulated.
 Credit-default swaps essentially function like insurance contracts to protect bond buyers from the risk that companies will default, but over the years they have become a favorite tool of speculators who use them to bet that a certain company will fail. 
 Exposure to the roughly $62 trillion market was one of the main reasons that the American International Group, the insurance giant, required a federal bailout, and contributed to the crises that led to the collapses of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. 
 The governor's move reverses previous state policy, which did not consider any credit-default swaps to be insurance products.
 ''The absence of regulatory oversight is the principal cause of the Wall Street meltdown we are currently witnessing,'' the governor said in a statement. ''While I applaud the recent federal intervention to stabilize the market -- and thus our entire economy -- it is important we also take the next step as a nation by regulating areas of the market which have previously lacked appropriate oversight.''
 In an interview Monday, Mr. Paterson added that credit-default swaps were ''the real problem with A.I.G.''
 ''When we peeled back the onion, we found out that A.I.G. had so many credit-default swaps that we couldn't calculate how much money they probably had wasted,'' he said. 
 Last week, Mr. Paterson's administration allowed A.I.G. to borrow $20 billion from its own subsidiaries to help bolster its capital, not long before the federal government announced an $85 billion bailout. The credit crisis is expected to weigh heavily on New York, which derives a fifth of its tax revenue from Wall Street. 
 Officials at the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department had no immediate comment on the governor's plan, or on his call for federal regulation. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is scheduled to testify before Congress on Tuesday, and credit-default swaps are likely to be on the agenda. 
 The governor said the state's insurance department would begin regulating credit-default swaps as insurance products in cases where the buyer of the swap also owns the underlying bond it is meant to back. 
 In those cases, only licensed insurers will be able to issue credit-default swaps. New guidelines will also increase minimum capital requirements and the reserves that financial institutions must maintain. 
 Rules will also be aimed at preventing financial institutions from insuring too many bonds from a single source and will consider a number of different factors, including who originates the bonds and who services the debt. 
 The Paterson administration said it would also limit insurers in guaranteeing collateralized debt obligations.
 Eric R. Dinallo, the New York State insurance superintendent, said that ''the severity of this crisis was substantially increased by what the government chose not to regulate, principally credit-default swaps.''
 ''We are providing an appropriate way for those with an insurable interest to protect themselves,'' he said ''and we are going to ensure that whoever sells them that protection is solvent, in other words, can actually pay the claims.''
 He added: ''We will urge the federal government that there should be some sort of national regulatory system that manages credit-default swaps.'' 
 Tomasz Piskorski, an assistant professor of finance and economics at the Columbia Business School, said, ''It's a good idea to bring some light to this market, to impose some rules, some transparency and some standardization of the contracts and increase the likelihood that these contracts will be honored.''
 Mr. Piskorski said he did not favor many types of regulation, including the recent ban on some short-selling, but added that ''this is one instance where it would be good to get some involvement of the federal authorities to draft some good rules.''
 Until recently, credit-default swap was a term little known beyond Wall Street. Mr. Paterson conceded as much during a meeting on Monday with editors and reporters of The New York Times. 
 ''I didn't even know what a credit-default swap was until I read about it in The Economist about six months ago,'' he said, adding, ''I thought they should be regulated by the gaming industry, because it's gambling.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson, center, joined other officials on Sept. 16 in announcing a deal to help the American International Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP EAST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (92%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



692 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: A Dialogue and a Discourse on America's Global Role

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE LIMITS OF POWER
 The End of American Exceptionalism
 By Andrew J. Bacevich
 206 pages. Metropolitan Books. $24.
 AMERICA AND THE WORLD
 Conversations on the Future of American Foreign Policy
 By Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft Moderated by David Ignatius
 291 pages. Basic Books. $27.50.
 In the months before the American invasion of Iraq, among the few members of the foreign policy establishment to speak out forcefully about the dangers of going to war unilaterally against Saddam Hussein were Brent Scowcroft, national security adviser to the first President Bush, and Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser to President Jimmy Carter. 
 In August 2002 Mr. Scowcroft warned that a ''virtual go-it-alone strategy against Iraq'' would degrade ''international cooperation with us against terrorism,'' and he presciently predicted that such a war ''would not be a cakewalk,'' as some members of the George W. Bush administration contended, but could involve ''a large-scale, long-term military occupation'' and ''would be very expensive -- with serious consequences for the U.S. and global economy.'' 
 That same month Mr. Brzezinski cautioned that ''war is too serious a business and too unpredictable in its dynamic consequences -- especially in a highly flammable region -- to be undertaken because of a personal peeve, demagogically articulated fears or vague factual assertions.'' In February 2003, he added that ''an America that decides to act essentially on its own regarding Iraq'' could ''find itself quite alone in having to cope with the costs and burdens of the war's aftermath, not to mention widespread and rising hostility abroad.''
 In a trenchant new book, ''America and the World: Conversations on the Future of American Foreign Policy,'' Mr. Brzezinski and Mr. Scowcroft (along with the Washington Post columnist David Ignatius, acting as moderator) incisively discuss the fallout of the Bush administration's war in Iraq, including the empowerment of Iran, the recruitment of more terrorists and the inflaming of hatreds within the region. They also survey the foreign policy landscape as a whole: the consequences of globalization, the rise of China as a new economic behemoth, the ambitions of a new Russia under the leadership of Vladimir V. Putin and Dmitri A. Medvedev. 
 Their wide-ranging dialogue gives the reader an acute sense of the daunting challenges (including nuclear proliferation, global warming and terrorism) confronted by America in a rapidly changing international environment, even as it emphasizes the importance of the coming presidential election in picking a leader to grapple with those issues at what could well be a hinge moment in modern history. 
 In addition to the continuing problems in Iraq, Mr. Scowcroft says, there exists now the overarching ''possibility of a general Middle East conflict in which the costs of Iraq would look minuscule.'' Both he and Mr. Brzezinski underscore the importance of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process -- which they suggest could change the psychology of the region and act as a catalyst for dealing with Hamas, Hezbollah, Syria and Iran -- and both stress the importance of the next president's engaging in that process immediately. 
 ''We have an unusual moment now,'' says Mr. Scowcroft, noting: ''We have an Israeli government that is weak. We have a Palestinian entity that is weak. And, really for the first time, we have Arab countries ready to support a solution.'' He adds that ''the region is incredibly fragile right now'' and worries about the time it will take for the new president to get up to speed. 
 Although they come from opposite sides of the political aisle (Mr. Scowcroft is a Republican, Mr. Brzezinski a Democrat), both are foreign policy realists who believe that the United States must constructively engage with a rapidly changing world, not react defensively to it. And while they disagree on aspects of the expansion of NATO and the timing of an American withdrawal from Iraq (Mr. Scowcroft says that ''simply withdrawing is an impediment to a solution,'' while Mr. Brzezinski contends that America's continuing presence there is ''part of the problem''), they agree on a remarkable number of basic strategic and diplomatic principles. 
 Unlike neoconservative ideologues in the current administration, the two former national security advisers say that talks with hostile parties can be a useful tool, and they argue that in the wake of 9/11, the Manichean language employed by President Bush has alienated allies and aggravated resentments in many parts of the world. 
 They point to the importance of alliances in an increasingly complicated and interconnected world. And they object to what Mr. Scowcroft refers to as the propagation of ''an environment of fear'' at home, which Mr. Brzezinski says has made Americans ''more susceptible to demagogy'' and to ''a fearful paranoia that the outside world is conspiring through its massive terrorist forces to destroy us.'' 
 What makes these discussions between Mr. Brzezinski and Mr. Scowcroft so bracing is their combination of common sense and an ability to place America's relationship with a particular country in both a historical perspective and a regional context of competing interests and threats. Their book should be required reading not only for the next president elect but also for any voters concerned with the foreign policy issues that will be on the next administration's plate.
 Andrew J. Bacevich, a professor of history and international relations at Boston University, also proposes to articulate a new realism in place of what he sees as the arrogant and narcissistic policies of the United States that have brought the country to the brink of ''three interlocking crises'': economic and cultural, political and military. 
 Although he can be eloquent on the subject of how Americans' consumer culture and pursuit of self-gratification have fueled the country's growing debt and growing dependence on foreign oil, his new book, ''The Limits of Power: The End of American Exceptionalism,'' is riddled with illogical arguments and dubious assertions that distract attention from its more credible observations. 
 While Derek Chollet and James Goldgeier, in their recent book, ''America Between the Wars,'' shrewdly pointed out certain continuities in foreign policy between the administrations of Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, Mr. Bacevich makes the sweeping assertion that ''Bush and those around him have reaffirmed the pre-existing fundamentals of U.S. policy, above all affirming the ideology of national security to which past administrations have long subscribed'' -- a dubious assertion he later appears to contest himself in writing about the current White House's embrace of the radical idea of preventive war. 
 In suggesting that the national security apparatus (including the C.I.A., the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Department of Defense and the National Security Council) and the political elite failed to avert -- or helped manufacture -- the current problems in Iraq, Mr. Bacevich sidesteps the fact that the Bush White House often dismissed the advice of experts and circumvented traditional policy-making channels in planning the war and occupation. And in unfairly knocking the American military for failing to eliminate the leadership of Al Qaeda and the Taliban, he plays down the Bush administration's decision to divert forces in Afghanistan to Iraq, whichcontributed to this outcome. 
 Mr. Bacevich similarly takes remarks made by General Tommy Franks in his autobiography out of context in an effort to hold the military responsible for the problems in occupied Iraq, arguing that ''blaming Washington alone won't do,'' that ''if the forces invading Iraq in March 2003 did so without a clear-cut plan for occupying the country, then, by his own account, primary responsibility for that oversight rests with the overall military commander.'' 
 These glib remarks disregard what many have argued was the Bush administration's failure to send enough troops to Iraq in the first place and decisions made by the Pentagon's civilian leadership -- most notably Donald H. Rumsfeld, defense secretary at the time -- that fueled a snowballing insurgency. Such remarks indicate a poor grasp of the overall history of the Iraq war, and they undermine any confidence the reader might have in the remainder of this unpersuasive book.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (88%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (70%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



693 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Trust Me

 BODY:
The nation's financial mess was caused to a great degree by a culture of lax regulation and even less oversight, in which ordinary Americans were told to trust the government and Wall Street to do the right thing.
 President Bush's proposed solution, which he wants Congress to authorize immediately, tells taxpayers to write a check for $700 billion and trust the government and Wall Street to do the right thing -- with inadequate regulation and virtually no oversight. 
 We agree with Senator Barack Obama that the administration's plan lacks regulatory muscle, and we agree with Senator John McCain when he said: ''When we're talking about a trillion dollars of taxpayer money, 'trust me' just isn't good enough.''
 Nearly everyone agrees that the there will have to be another very big bailout. The financial system, gorged on its own excesses, cannot stabilize without intervention. The $700 billion would be used to buy up the bad assets that are presumably clogging the system. 
 To protect the American taxpayer, Congress must ensure that the bailout comes with clear ground rules and vigilant oversight. In an appalling, though familiar fashion, the ground rules proposed by the Bush administration are wholly unacceptable -- as are its tactics.
 At 1 o'clock in the morning on Saturday, the Treasury Department released its ''Legislative Proposal for Treasury Authority to Purchase Mortgage-Related Assets.'' The witching hour timing seemed designed to underscore the urgency of the effort. 
 The proposal, which is now being negotiated with Congressional leaders, would give the Treasury secretary the authority to buy any assets from any financial institution at any price that he deemed necessary to provide stability to the financial markets. And it asserts that neither the courts nor any administrative agency would be allowed to question or review those decisions. 
 We've seen this kind of over-reaching from the Bush administration before. It has usurped far too many powers under a banner of urgency -- think wiretapping -- and abused those powers. Now, Congress and the American people are being told that unless they quickly approve sweeping executive powers for the bailout, capitalism may collapse. Even if this administration weren't so untrustworthy, rushing ahead would be a bad idea.
 No one is saying the financial crisis is not serious and urgent. We know that it will be hard for lawmakers to resist White House pressure -- especially if the Dow continues to drop. But it is essential that Congress takes the time to get the bailout right, even if it cuts into lawmakers' campaigning.
 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson must craft and execute the bailout in a way that persuades Wall Street and the global financial system that they will be saved while protecting the American taxpayers' $700 billion investment. Balancing those complex mandates is made more difficult by the fact that Mr. Paulson hails from Wall Street and could, if he wanted to, return to Wall Street. 
 The only way to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest is for Mr. Paulson to welcome full and transparent legislative and judicial review. 
 A counterproposal now being developed by the Democrats would require firms that sell their troubled assets to the Treasury to give the government stock -- an idea that has populist appeal but also needs to be vetted carefully. It also would try to help homeowners, who are left out of the administration's plan entirely, allowing them to have their mortgages modified under bankruptcy court protection. That step that should have been taken long ago to avert the foreclosures and house price declines that are at the root of the crisis.
 Senator Christopher Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, is also calling for an oversight board of federal officials and other experts. We believe that is still not enough. But all of the competing proposals provide interesting starts for a serious debate.
 There is time to have it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LEGISLATION (72%); WIRETAPPING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



694 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: The Establishment Lives!

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Once, there was a financial elite in this country. During the first two-thirds of the 20th century, middle-aged men with names like Mellon and McCloy led Wall Street firms, corporate boards and white-shoe law firms and occasionally emerged to serve in government. 
 Starting in the 1960s, that cohesive elite began to fall apart. Liberal interest groups took control of Democratic economic policy. Supply-side think tankers and Southern conservatives dominated the GOP. 
 In the 1980s, the old power structures frayed, even on Wall Street. Corporate raiders took on the old business elite. Math geeks created complicated financial instruments that the top executives couldn't control or understand. (The market for credit-default swaps alone has exploded to $45.5 trillion, up from $900 billion in 2001.)
 Year followed year, and the idea of a cohesive financial establishment seemed increasingly like a thing of the past. 
 No more. Over the past week, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Tim Geithner of the New York Fed have nearly revived it. At its base, the turmoil wracking the world financial markets is a crisis of confidence. What Paulson, et al. have tried to do is reassert authority -- the sort that used to be wielded by the Mellons and Rockefellers and other rich men in private clubs. 
 Inspired in part by Paul Volcker, Nicholas Brady and Eugene Ludwig, and announced last week, the Paulson plan is a pure establishment play. It would assign nearly unlimited authority to a small coterie of policy makers. It does not rely on any system of checks and balances, but on the wisdom and public spiritedness of those in charge. It offers succor to the investment banks that contributed to this mess and will burn through large piles of taxpayer money. But in exchange, it promises to restore confidence. Somebody, amid all the turmoil, will occupy the commanding heights. Somebody will have the power to absorb debt and establish stability.
 Liberals and conservatives generally dislike the plan. William Greider of The Nation writes: ''If Wall Street gets away with this, it will represent an historic swindle of the American public -- all sugar for the villains, lasting pain and damage for the victims.''
 He approvingly quotes the conservative economist Christopher Whalen of Institutional Risk Analytics: ''The joyous reception from Congressional Democrats to Paulson's latest massive bailout proposal smells an awful lot like yet another corporatist love fest between Washington's one-party government and the Sell Side investment banks.''
 Thanks to their criticism, the plan will be pinned back. Oversight will be put in place. But the plan will probably not be stopped. The markets would tank. There is a hunger for stability, which only the Treasury and the Fed can provide. 
 So we have arrived at one of those moments. The global financial turmoil has pulled nearly everybody out of their normal ideological categories. The pressure of reality has compelled new thinking about the relationship between government and the economy. And lo and behold, a new center and a new establishment is emerging.
 The Paulson rescue plan is one chapter. But there will be others. Over the next few years, the U.S. will have to climb out from under mountainous piles of debt. Many predict a long, gray recession. The country will not turn to free-market supply-siders. Nor will it turn to left-wing populists. It will turn to the safe heads from the investment banks. For Republicans, people like Paulson. For Democrats, the guiding lights will be those establishment figures who advised Barack Obama last week -- including Volcker, Robert Rubin and Warren Buffett.
 These time-tested advisers, or more precisely, their acolytes, are going to make the health and survival of the financial markets their first order of business, because without that stability, the entire economy will be in danger. Beyond that, they will embrace a certain sort of governing approach.
 The government will be much more active in economic management (pleasing a certain sort of establishment Democrat). Government activism will provide support to corporations, banks and business and will be used to shore up the stable conditions they need to thrive (pleasing a certain sort of establishment Republican). Tax revenues from business activities will pay for progressive but business-friendly causes -- investments in green technology, health care reform, infrastructure spending, education reform and scientific research.
 If you wanted to devise a name for this approach, you might pick the phrase economist Arnold Kling has used: Progressive Corporatism. We're not entering a phase in which government stands back and lets the chips fall. We're not entering an era when the government pounds the powerful on behalf of the people. We're entering an era of the educated establishment, in which government acts to create a stable -- and often oligarchic -- framework for capitalist endeavor. 
 After a liberal era and then a conservative era, we're getting a glimpse of what comes next. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MEN (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



695 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Nations Pledge Support, but Not Financing, for Bailout Proposal

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Mark Landler reported from Washington and Carter Dougherty from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States, having expanded its proposed rescue of the financial sector to include foreign banks, has not yet found any other country willing to join the landmark bailout.
 The Treasury Department still hopes to marshal a worldwide effort to cleanse the balance sheets of banks. But Europe and Japan have signaled that they are not ready to mount a rescue of the kind being debated here.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. continues to solicit support from foreign governments. His department plans to prod them by giving preference to banks from countries that show a willingness to help the American effort, a senior administration official said Monday. 
 ''We expect other countries to do their part, but we're not insisting their programs be exactly like ours,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''We're certainly not prepared to put ourselves in a position where there's a free-rider problem.''
 Given that the mortgage collapse began here and that most of the distressed debt is held by American banks, specialists said it was not clear that the United States had much leverage in forcing others to take part.
 ''There's a view in Europe that this is a U.S.-made problem, and that it should be solved in the U.S.,'' said Charles H. Dallara, the managing director of the Institute for International Finance, a group of more than 300 global banks.
 Several banks raised concerns after a draft of the rescue plan limited eligibility for selling mortgage-related loans to the Treasury to banks with headquarters in the United States. The language was changed a day later to include foreign banks with significant American operations.
 The change did not reflect lobbying pressure, officials said, but Mr. Paulson's judgment that helping all banks with contacts to American consumers would better stabilize financial markets.
 It did not, however, build support for a bailout in Europe, a day after finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 7 industrialized countries discussed the proposal in a conference call.
 While the group pledged in a statement to ''enhance international cooperation,'' it affirmed that the countries were free to go their own way in responding to the crisis. ''None of the other six G-7 members will adopt a similar program to the U.S.,'' the German finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, said.
 The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, criticized the United States and Britain for opposing German attempts to put greater regulation, or at least reviews, of the financial sector on the international agenda last year, when she was leading the Group of 7.
 ''Everyone who produces a real product knows what it looks like and what standards it is up to,'' Mrs. Merkel said, while traveling in Austria. ''One also needs to know with a financial product what's involved. Otherwise, these sorts of things happen that we then all have to pay for.''
 In fact, Germany and Britain have already bailed out some banks that got into trouble because of deteriorating mortgage-related loans, though on a scale much smaller than the proposed American plan.
 British officials made clear that they would not create a government fund to buy bad assets, although Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, did promise new rules.
 ''We are putting in place both here in the U.K. and internationally the tougher financial regulation no one can doubt we need,'' Mr. Darling told the governing Labor Party's annual conference in Manchester. ''I will continue to do whatever it takes to maintain financial stability.''
 Some economists said Europeans would be forced to take more sweeping action. ''Germany has more toxic exposure than any other country,'' said Adam S. Posen, the deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''The only one that may stay out of this is France.''
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who holds the rotating European Union presidency, has on many occasions complained about the structure of global economic regulation.
 On Monday, Christian de Boissieu, chairman of the French prime minister's council of economic analysis, said: ''The U.S. must take charge of the budgetary costs of the crisis. I'm all for trans-Atlantic solidarity, but this doesn't include financing the bailout.''
 The Japanese finance minister, Bunmei Ibuki, said after the Group of 7 statement that he saw no need for Japan to set up an American-style rescue scheme to help its own banks rid themselves of bad assets, Reuters reported.
 Apart from a lack of sympathy for a crisis they view as made in America, European governments are also constrained by rules within the 27-nation European Union that limit budget deficits and public debt.
 ''Europe won't do anything because they haven't got the room for maneuver,'' said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, an equity strategist with Charles Stanley in London. ''They ran themselves into a cul-de-sac.''
 A study by the Federal Reserve in August concluded that losses of foreigners holding mortgage-backed securities could be as low as $75 billion, though paper losses would be higher before the market stabilizes.
 The Association of German Banks hinted that it would oppose the bailout plan if it gave American rivals a sudden advantage.
 ''We need to assure that disadvantages for foreign institutions do not arise from the U.S. program,'' Manfred Weber, the general manager of the association, said. ''It was, after all, American products that created the crisis and that created the contagion effects.''
 A spokesman for the association, Heiner Herkenhoff, said the group was still studying the details of the plan, such as they were available, but that it should define eligibility through the nationality of the product. If the mortgage-linked security in question was from the United States, he said, it should be eligible to be purchased, no matter which bank held it.
 That appears to conflict with the plan to limit eligibility to foreign banks with significant American operations. Such a rule would include major banks like Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, but many of Germany's smaller banks did not meet that criterion, Mr. Herkenhoff said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); PEER STEINBRUECK (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



696 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Banking Deregulation and McCain's Health Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

 BODY:
Titled ''Article,'' this 30-second advertisement for Senator Barack Obama will be broadcast on national cable television, according to his campaign. 
 PRODUCER Obama media team. 
 THE SCRIPT A narrator says: ''We've seen what Bush-McCain policies have done to our economy. Now John McCain wants to do the same to our health care. McCain just published an article praising Wall Street deregulation. Said he'd reduce oversight of the health insurance industry, too. Just 'as we have done over the last decade in banking.' Increasing costs and threatening coverage. A prescription for disaster. John McCain. A risk we just can't afford to take.''
 ON THE SCREEN The advertisement opens with a split-screen image: on top is a photograph of Senator John McCain with President Bush. On the bottom are the logos of Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Fannie Mae, all symbols of the crisis on Wall Street. The spot attributes the sour economy to ''Bush-McCain policies,'' and then the words ''McCain wants to do the same to health care'' appear on the screen. Next is an image of an article by Mr. McCain in Contingencies magazine in which he promotes letting Americans buy health insurance across state lines, drawing a parallel to the relaxation of rules governing the banking industry. The spot ends with a photograph of Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain with the president's arm around him. 
 ACCURACY The advertisement makes a leap in drawing implicit parallels between Mr. McCain's health care proposals and the deregulation of the banking sector and then tying the deregulation to the financial crisis. Writing in Contingencies, Mr. McCain said, ''Opening up the health insurance market to more vigorous nationwide competition, as we have done over the last decade in banking, would provide more choices of innovative products less burdened by the worst excesses of state-based regulation.'' While the Obama campaign is linking the ability to buy insurance across state lines to banking deregulation, the changes that allowed banks to operate across state lines were viewed by many as having benefited consumers by encouraging competition, and those changes have not been linked to the current crisis. A spokesman for Mr. McCain, Tucker Bounds, called such parallels false. 
 SCORECARD The advertisement successfully seizes on Mr. McCain's advocacy for less regulation at a time when financial institutions are collapsing and the government is moving to step in with a bailout estimated at $700 billion. But by making questionable assertions about the roots of the crisis and then making a link to Mr. McCain's health care plans, Mr. Obama opens himself to the same criticism that Mr. McCain has faced about the truthfulness of his attacks. MICHAEL FALCONE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



697 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: A Huge Plan to Rescue Wall Street

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Administration Is Seeking $700 Billion for Wall St.; Bailout Could Set Record'' (front page, Sept. 21):
 The bailout plan for American financial institutions appears to put most or all of the risk on taxpayers and minimal risk on the institutions that made incredibly large numbers of incredibly poor financial decisions. If this plan is put into effect, we will witness the final and most devastating act of the largest transfer of wealth from the middle class to the truly rich in this nation's history.
 I miss the good old days when hard work was rewarded and incompetence was punished. These days, we have it backward.
 Mitchell Turker Portland, Ore., Sept. 21, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 So an administration that is unsuccessful at war, disaster relief and so on now wants to be given a free hand in spending $700 billion on assets for which there is no agreed value or way to value.
 To get this, it uses its favorite weapon, scaring people about what would happen if its plan is not followed.
 I cannot help but think that this is more a bailout for its friends in the financial industry than something needed to help ordinary Americans.
 I would feel more comfortable that this was not some gift to financial institutions if those institutions that took part in the bailout had to revoke top management's stock incentives given during the last five years, were forbidden to award such incentives over the next five years, had to cap salaries at $250,000 and had to pay into a fund that would help repay at least a portion of these costs. 
 Otherwise, I can see the day when these firms again operate based on greed and their managers profit while taxpayers foot the bill for their ineptitude.
 Roy Weber Ridgewood, N.J., Sept. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''Democrats Set Conditions on Bailout as 2 Firms End Investment Banking Era'' (front page, Sept. 22), this sentence appears: ''The Bush administration proposal ... calls for nearly unfettered powers to the Treasury secretary.''
 We must demand to know whom John McCain and Barack Obama would appoint to this position. Not vague generalities about experience, character and so on, but specific names. And we need to know now, before the election.
 Susan Black San Francisco, Sept. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Once again, Democrats are falling into the trap of allowing the Bush administration to frame the response to a crisis. Just as in 9/11, Democrats will allow President Bush and his supporters to frame the qualifications and responses of ''patriotic'' legislators.
 The present crisis did not happen overnight, and no one should expect Congress to enact anything close to resembling a comprehensive and effective response in a matter of a few days.
 Douglas Salerno Traverse City, Mich., Sept. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 American families are hurting in many ways these days. The mortgage crisis threatens tens of thousands of families with the loss of their homes. The Wall Street meltdown undoubtedly means layoffs and bare pantries for many more families. The gas crisis already has some parents facing painful choices about whether to heat their homes this winter or feed their children. 
 And let us not forget that hundreds of thousands of families in Texas and Louisiana are already without power, or have actually lost their homes. With schools serving 300,000 children closed because of Hurricane Ike, parents in these devastated areas have no way to care for their children except to miss work -- if indeed they still have jobs to go to. 
 American politicians need to stop focusing so much on the needs of investors and the ''gotcha'' politics of the campaign and tell us what they will do to help America's families cope with the disasters -- natural and otherwise -- that face so many Americans today. 
 Steven Mintz New York, Sept. 20, 2008
 The writer is the national co-chairman of the Council on Contemporary Families and a historian at Columbia University.
 To the Editor:
 In ''Cash for Trash'' (column, Sept. 22), Paul Krugman wrote about the current economic bailout before Congress: ''Don't let yourself be railroaded -- if this plan goes through in anything like its current form, we'll all be very sorry in the not-too-distant future.'' 
 I am already sorry. On Sunday, I read the business section of The Times and was appalled by the chief executives' salaries at our financial institutions, even when they were cut in half. Those C.E.O.'s of failed institutions should consider returning those millions to shareholders, employees and taxpayers.
 In all other segments of our democratic and capitalistic society, employees are rewarded with higher salaries for work well done. But in the business world, success or failure, the C.E.O.'s walk away with obscene payments, and now we are to bail them out!
 Middle-class citizens like me did not benefit from the bubble years, and I don't see why we must pay back that debt incurred by recklessness and greed. But something must be done and done quickly by Congress. 
 I agree with Mr. Krugman that some regulations should be tied to this bailout and that Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, should not be given ''dictatorial authority, plus immunity from reviews.''
 Mary Leonard Kingston, N.Y., Sept. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Hard Truths About the Bailout'' (editorial, Sept. 20): 
 While no thoughtful person questions the need for government intervention in this most troubling financial collapse, it is well past time to face other hard truths. The same high fliers who support the use of taxpayer money to buy troubled loans and other mortgage-related securities from banks and Wall Street firms have been the first to cry ''foul'' when average citizens suggest that tax revenues should pay for health care, education and infrastructure repair.
 Socialism for wealthy gamblers is deemed acceptable; social programs that benefit average citizens somehow are suspect, even subversive.
 It's time to put the Orwellian use of language to bed and to create a level playing field in which the same rules apply in protecting the interests of the public at large as now are being advocated to advance the interests of Wall Street. Socialism by any other name ... 
 Ann Galloway Stamford, Conn., Sept. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Ron Lieber (Your Money column, Sept. 20) presents a sound discussion on preserving adequate retirement funds. Yet the one secure source of retirement income is Social Security.
 With most pension funds and 401(k)s invested primarily in the stock market, if the administration had succeeded in its desire to privatize Social Security, it would have created a huge hole in what still remains a major safety net.
 Nathan T. Melamed Pittsburgh, Sept. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The investment banking community must have thousands of bright young minds like Sam G. Baris (''Present at the Crash,'' Op-Ed, Sept. 19). Having chosen a profession faced with a major crisis and an uncertain future, they are anxious and having second thoughts about their career path.
 When the smoke clears in a few months, the profession will almost certainly be very different than it is now. Certainly, the opportunities will be fewer, and the promise of large financial reward less assured.
 Let me suggest that analysts and investment bankers confronting such thoughts recognize both their youth and their intelligence. The analytical skills that they possess are valued in other professions. As a 20- or 30-something, there's plenty of life left to apply those skills elsewhere: consider the life sciences, medicine, teaching, journalism.
 The current financial crisis affects us all. But for those who are on the front lines, it may seem as if choices are few. In fact, for many, this crisis may be an opportunity in disguise.
 Mark E. Horowitz New York, Sept. 19, 2008
 The writer is a family physician practicing in the financial district.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); HISTORY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (50%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



698 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATESIDE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: In Changing County, Fault Lines Of Election Run House by House

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: SPARKS, Nev. 

 BODY:
There are swing states, and within them, swing counties. Here in northern Nevada, there are also swing streets. 
 Living on one of them, York Way, a busy street of single-family homes, is Delta Limon, 42, a Democrat born in Mexico who feels a fissure between her beliefs that Senator Barack Obama is on her side of the immigration debate but not conservative enough on gay rights.
 A few houses away, her neighbor Roger Rowland, a 58-year-old electrician, voted for President Bush twice and feels let down, yet is unable to settle between Mr. Obama, the Democrat, and Senator John McCain, the Republican.
 Other neighbors are Joe Beard, 64, who would no sooner vote for Mr. Obama than volunteer for space travel, and Brian and Becky Solomon, new parents in their mid-20s who just as strongly back Mr. Obama. 
 In the emergent swing state of Nevada, Washoe County -- home to Reno and Sparks -- is the most pendular county of all. In a county reliably Republican for years, the Republican Party's voter registration advantage has narrowed to 5,000 people from 17,000 in just the last year.
 Polls taken in Nevada over the last few months have shown about 15 percent of respondents undecided, with Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama roughly tied.
 As in other places on the nation's political fault line, issues rather than party loyalty are defining how many people here view the presidential race.
 ''The economy is the No. 1 issue for me,'' said James Pinto, 28, who played with his two small children in the fading light near his home in a new development in Reno, another place of multiple swing streets. ''And that's why I am still undecided. I like the alternative view that Obama makes, but I am not sure he is right, either.''
 Mr. Pinto, like many here, said he could easily see himself walking into the voting booth undecided. 
 Nevada is divided in large part between rural and urban voters, newcomers versus old-timers, the contours of the political discussion formed by growth, energy and immigration. While the voters in the rural area of the state are almost certain to go for Mr. McCain, and Mr. Obama is seen as having an advantage in southern Clark County -- home to Las Vegas -- Washoe County is widely considered the place that could tip the state one way or the other.
 ''It is going to be a close race,'' said Heidi B. Smith, the chairwoman for the county's Republican Party. ''I don't challenge that one bit.''
 A stroll through one of Reno's many new housing developments, and an evening passed at a sports bar on that city's south side revealed an array of voters who are far from committed to a candidate, or just as often at odds with their neighbors, their friends and their spouses.
 Mr. Pinto's wife, Alyssa, has already made up her mind. ''I'm totally for Obama now,'' said Mrs. Pinto, a stay-at-home mother who moved with her husband from Modesto, Calif., to Reno last year. ''I was not impressed with McCain's choice of Sarah Palin. At first I thought, 'Oh, a woman, a mother, great.' But she's got some views I don't like. And she's got a 7-month-old with Down syndrome. Family is so important to me. I can't see how she can leave her children behind to do this.''
 Bryan Gray, a mortgage banker who recently lost his job, described with a mix of pain and euphoria the choice before him. ''I am waiting for the debates,'' said Mr. Gray, who is 30 and a registered Republican. Over a large stein of beer, watching a football game at the sports bar, Mr. Gray described his conflicts.
 ''I was a military man, and John McCain has always stood up for the military,'' he said. ''But Barack Obama is a good man. I voted for Bush twice and was let down in the second term. My godfather is African-American, so I'd like to see a change in the guard, too, to see that the doors are open for everyone. But my wife is a doctor, and an attempt to nationalize health care could affect her pay.'' 
 The talk on his street, Mr. Gray said, is all about the election these days.
 ''I live on a cul-de-sac, and three of my neighbors are in the Air Force and two are police officers,'' he said. ''Every Saturday when we mow the lawn we talk about this, and they're up in the air, too. One neighbor is a vet; he is totally Obama. I don't know. It's just exciting.''
 Mr. Gray was having his beer with Kevin Ciccotti, 47, who colors himself confused. ''I'm a social conservative,'' Mr. Ciccotti said, ''and this decision has presented me with one of the biggest challenges in my voting life.''
 He continued: ''McCain has been going off on Obama because of his lack of experience, but then he picks Sarah Palin. Obama talks about change, but then he puts a Washington insider on his ticket. I don't support abortion, that's for sure, but I'm concerned about the economy. I've got three kids, so I am heavy into it with college and I feel like the economy is crashing down around me.'' He added: ''I hope and believe McCain has a better plan for the long term to stabilize the economy. I'm just not sure.''
 Nevada has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country -- along with Florida and California -- and one of its principal industries, gambling, has suffered with the economic chill that has settled on much of the nation.
 In July, the latest month for which data is available, Nevada's gambling revenues fell 13 percent from the same period in 2007, the seventh straight month of declines. The number of people without health insurance, roughly 18 percent of the population, is among the highest in the nation. 
 While Nevada shares many characteristics with other Western states, its economy and political culture are distinct even to the region. Conservative here often means libertarian, and that often means equally staunch defenses of guns and brothels against government restrictions. Tourism and gambling in particular are the life blood of the state, coupled with mining in the north. 
 The state has voted Republican in 8 of the last 10 presidential elections, with the exceptions coming in 1992 and 1996, when voters gave the nod to Bill Clinton. But increasingly, Democrats have taken advantage of an influx of voters from other states to flip the state's overall registration from red to blue; there are now 458,877 active registered Democrats, compared with 397,172 Republicans. 
 Mr. Obama also benefits from the fact that the state's governor, Jim Gibbons, a Republican, is so unpopular that he offers little to help Mr. McCain, and the state's large population of Latino voters may give Mr. Obama advantages. 
 ''The Hispanic community has been especially hard hit,'' Mr. Obama said Wednesday during remarks on the economy that he made in Las Vegas. 
 Further, among the Republicans, Mr. McCain was bested by Mitt Romney and Representative Ron Paul of Texas in the Republican primary here, and took a while to catch up to Mr. Obama's staffing levels in the state. 
 Still, Mr. McCain benefits from a long tradition of Republican-dominated voting patterns in the state, and his familiarity as a senator from neighboring Arizona. ''The conventional wisdom is that this is McCain's state to lose,'' said Chuck Muth, a conservative activist in Nevada. 
 Mr. McCain also has the advantage with Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, his running mate. ''The big event that has happened here is Sarah Palin,'' said Ms. Smith, the county Republican chairwoman. ''She has changed a lot of people. We are cowboys and cowgirls at heart up here, and she just fits into the lifestyle.''
 Indeed, Washoe -- which has not voted for a Democrat for president since 1964 -- is in many ways the perfect microcosm of Nevada's political chasms, with denizens of the area's small-city ways rubbing up against newcomers.
 From 1999 to 2007, there was a net migration of 27,873 Californians to Washoe County, roughly 35 percent of all the county's newcomers in that time. While not all of those transferred people were Democrats, or even voters, they have changed the cultural and political dynamic of the county, which now has a population of 418,000.
 ''The new areas are the new battlegrounds,'' Sue Lowden, chairwoman of the Nevada Republican Party, said of the migration. ''We don't know which way they are going to swing out there.''
 Another wild card is the state's independents. Among the state's 1,059,613 registered voters, according to the most recent data available from the Nevada secretary of state, 150,396 are unaffiliated with a party. Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have done well in attracting the attention of such voters, but how they will cast their choice here remains a mystery.
 ''We've got a full spectrum of people out here,'' said James Elste, who is registered as an independent in Reno and remains uncommitted. ''I have friends who are working for Obama and friends who are staunch Republicans and some who haven't decided. So unlike a lot of other states, there is a chance for the political process to actually work the way it is meant to in Nevada.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Volunteers working at the Obama campaign headquarters in Reno last week. Polls are showing Senators Barack Obama and John McCain in a tie in Nevada.
Alyssa Pinto, a stay-at-home mother, says she was not impressed by Mr. McCain's choice for his running mate. Volunteers working at the Obama campaign headquarters in Reno last week. Polls are showing Senators Barack Obama and John McCain in a tie in Nevada.
On a politically mixed street in Washoe County, Nev., Joe Beard, 64, will not vote for Mr. Obama in any circumstance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: How Nevada Voted in Presidential Races . . .: Though Washoe County, home to Reno and Sparks, has voted Republican in the past, migration of Californians and other factors have changed its landscape, making it a swing county this election.
. . . And Who Voted: As percentage of all voters surveyed in statewide exit polls. (Sources: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
exit polls conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, Voter News Service, Edison/Mitofsky and New York Times/CBS News
 Nevada Secretary of State's Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (56%); LGBT RIGHTS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



699 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: TALKS ON BAILOUT PLAN ADVANCE; CONGRESS IS ANGRY AND SKEPTICAL

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Carl Hulse, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Jackie Calmes and Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration and Congressional leaders moved closer to agreement on a historic $700 billion bailout for financial firms on Monday, including tight oversight of the program and new efforts to help homeowners at risk of foreclosure.
But lawmakers in both parties voiced anger over the steep cost and even skepticism about the plan's chances of success.
As heated debate began on Capitol Hill, Congress and the administration remained at odds over the demands of some lawmakers, including limits on the pay of top executives whose firms seek help, and new authority to allow bankruptcy judges to reduce mortgage payments for borrowers facing foreclosure.
Congressional leaders and Treasury officials also said they were close to an agreement over a proposal by some Democrats in which taxpayers could receive an ownership stake, in the form of warrants to buy stock, from firms seeking to sell distressed debt. 
Lawmakers want to require an equity stake, while the administration wants flexibility on that matter, a Treasury official said.
Despite the progress, the rancor in Congress ratcheted up the pressure on Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, the architects of the proposal to let financial institutions, including some foreign firms, pass their most distressed assets to the United States Treasury.
Both are scheduled to testify before the Senate banking committee on Tuesday morning, where they must now sell the bailout plan to dubious lawmakers and to an increasingly angry public. They will also appear before the House Financial Services committee on Wednesday afternoon.
''I am concerned that Treasury's proposal is neither workable nor comprehensive despite its enormous price tag,'' Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, said in a statement. ''It would be foolish to waste massive sums of taxpayer funds testing an idea that has been hastily crafted.''
While Congressional leaders in both chambers said they were confident that they could reach a quick deal, it was also clear that Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke would face rough questioning and that initial support for the bailout had begun to fray. Some Democrats said they simply did not trust the president, and drew a parallel to Mr. Bush's request for authority to wage war in Iraq.
Some conservative Republicans also expressed outrage, echoing scornful comments by Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Lou Dobbs, the CNN anchor, among other right-leaning critics.
Treasury officials brushed off the protests from influential Republicans like Mr. Shelby and said they were confident that Republican leaders could bring their members along. ''We are making progress and have confidence that a plan will pass by the end of this week,'' said Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paulson.
The financial markets, however, reacted badly to the wrangling in Washington, with the Dow Jones industrial average tumbling 372 points.
President Bush urged Congress on Monday to act fast. ''Americans are watching to see if Democrats and Republicans, the Congress and the White House, can come together to solve this problem with the urgency it warrants,'' he said in a statement. ''The whole world is watching to see if we can act quickly to shore up our markets.''
The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said Democrats were prepared to do so. ''Democrats in the Senate aren't going to drag our feet,'' he said in a speech on the Senate floor. ''We'll respond with the urgency of action that this situation demands, but after eight years of fiscal dereliction of duty, it's time for accountability.''
''Should we resolve the issue in one day?'' he asked. ''I think not.''
Republican leaders who support the administration's plan warned the Democrats on Monday to exercise restraint and not slow the bailout package, even as they prepared for an aggressive internal campaign to rally Republican support.
''When there's a fire in your kitchen threatening to burn down your home, you don't want someone stopping the firefighters on the way and demanding they hand out smoke detectors first or lecturing you about the hazards of keeping paint in the basement,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said in a speech on the Senate floor. ''You want them to put out the fire before it burns down your home and everything you've saved for your whole life.''
Mr. McConnell added: ''The same is true of our current economic situation. We know that there is a serious threat to our economy, and we know that we must take action to try and head off a serious blow to Main Street.''
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, after a meeting with party leaders on Monday evening, said she, too, remained committed to getting a bill to the president as quickly as possible.
But powerful lawmakers in both parties said they would not be rushed into granting Mr. Bush's request.
''I walked down LaSalle Street on Friday, a great street in Chicago lined with banks and big office buildings,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat. ''A lot of people came up and said 'hi.' But a lot of them came up and said: 'Are you really going to do this? $700 billion bailing out the banks? And I said: 'I don't know. At the end of the day, I just don't know.' ''
Mr. Durbin, in a speech on the Senate floor, angrily recalled that the administration had similarly requested swift approval of its plan to attack Iraq. ''Just as we should have asked more questions about weapons of mass destruction six years ago before we found ourselves in this war,'' Mr. Durbin said, ''we need to ask questions today about where this is leading.''
Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California who leads the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said: ''The taxpayer is being asked to risk billions to protect the bonuses of investment bankers.''
The skepticism was equally palpable at the other end of the ideological spectrum.
''This is going way too fast,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana and a conservative leader who said constituents he met this weekend were flabbergasted at the plan. ''The American people don't want Congress to make haste with the financial recovery legislation; they want us to make sense.''
And Mr. Shelby, of the banking committee, said: ''Congress must immediately undertake a comprehensive, public examination of the problem and alternative solutions rather than swiftly pass the current plan with minimal changes or discussion. We owe the American taxpayer no less.''
Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker, said he expected Republican lawmakers to oppose the plan in increasing numbers. ''I think this is going to be a much bigger fight than he expected,'' Mr. Gingrich said, referring to President Bush.
In a sign of how complicated the negotiations over specific provisions of the bailout could become, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, and a member of the banking committee, said that he would strongly support limiting the pay of executives whose firms seek government aid. But Mr. Martinez said he would oppose any effort to change the bankruptcy laws.
In his prepared testimony, Mr. Paulson sought to underscore the huge risks to everyday Americans. ''The market turmoil we are experiencing today poses great risk to U.S. taxpayers,'' Mr. Paulson plans to testify. ''When the financial system doesn't work as it should, Americans' personal savings, and the ability of consumers and business to finance spending, investment and job creation are threatened.''
Mr. Bernanke, in his remarks, will implore the Congress to act. ''Despite the efforts of the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and other agencies, global financial markets remain under extraordinary stress,'' he says in his remarks. ''Action by the Congress is urgently required to stabilize the situation and avert what otherwise could be very serious consequences for our financial markets and for our economy.''
Early on Monday, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, and chairman of the banking committee, introduced a 44-page draft bill that his staff pulled together on Sunday incorporating many priorities of Senate Democrats -- a hefty counterproposal to the administration's initial three page proposal.
Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, who had already submitted a series of demands to the Treasury, worked Monday to revise his version of the legislation to reflect various agreements with the administration on oversight and other issues.
Officials said that the administration was also prepared to adopt conflict-of-interest rules for any private firms that are hired to help the Treasury manage the bailout program. Some lawmakers were worried that such firms might also own assets that could grow in value depending on how the rescue plan was run.
Officials said there was also a deal to mandate that the government develop a plan to prevent foreclosures by renegotiating any mortgages that it purchases.
Because the markets are eager for a final deal and because Congress is trying to adjourn for the fall elections, lawmakers are bypassing the normal committee process and working toward an agreement in hopes of votes in both chambers within days.
And some lawmakers said it could be done. ''We are convinced that inaction could be a disaster,'' said Senator Robert Bennett, Republican of Utah. ''We don't believe that inaction is an option, so therefore we are going to do whatever we can to make sure that the action that is taken is as responsible and well thought-out as possible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Barney Frank, chairman of Financial Services Committee, revised a bill Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, left, and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, spoke Monday in the Capitol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) CHART: DOW INDUSTRIALS
DOLLAR
 OIL (Source: Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); JUDGES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); RICHARD SHELBY (78%); HARRY REID (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



700 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Chilly Review From Experts

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
As economists puzzle over the proposed details of what may be the biggest financial bailout in American history, the initial skepticism that greeted its unveiling has only deepened.
 Some are horrified at the prospect of putting $700 billion in public money on the line. Others are outraged that Wall Street, home of the eight-figure salary, may get rescued from the consequences of its real estate bender, even as working families give up their houses to foreclosure. 
 Most economists accept that the nation's financial crisis -- the worst since the Great Depression -- has reached such perilous proportions that an expensive intervention is required. But considerable disagreement centers on how to go about it. The Treasury's proposal for a bailout, now being negotiated with Congress, is being challenged as fundamentally deficient.
 ''At first it was, 'thank goodness the cavalry is coming,' but what exactly is the cavalry going to do?'' asked Douglas W. Elmendorf, a former Treasury and Federal Reserve Board economist, and now a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''What I worry about is that the Treasury has acted very quickly, without having the time to solicit enough opinions.'' 
 The common denominator to many reactions is a visceral discomfort with giving Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. -- himself a product of Wall Street -- carte blanche to relieve major financial institutions of bad loans choking their balance sheets, all on the taxpayer's bill.
 There are substantive reasons for this discomfort, not least concerns that Mr. Paulson will pay too much, thus subsidizing giant financial institutions. Many economists argue that taxpayers ought to get more than avoidance of the apocalypse for their dollars: they ought to get an ownership stake in the companies on the receiving end.
 But an underlying source of doubt about the bailout stems from who is asking for it. The rescue is being sold as a must-have emergency measure by an administration with a controversial record when it comes to asking Congress for special authority in time of duress. 
 ''This administration is asking for a $700 billion blank check to be put in the hands of Henry Paulson, a guy who totally missed this, and has been wrong about almost everything,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. ''It's almost amazing they can do this with a straight face. There is clearly skepticism and anger at the idea that we'd give this money to these guys, no questions asked.''
 Mr. Paulson has argued that the powers he seeks are necessary to chase away the wolf howling at the door: a potentially swift shredding of the American financial system. That would be catastrophic for everyone, he argues, not only banks, but also ordinary Americans who depend on their finances to buy homes and cars, and to pay for college.
 Some are suspicious of Mr. Paulson's characterizations, finding in his warnings and demands for extraordinary powers a parallel with the way the Bush administration gained authority for the war in Iraq. Then, the White House suggested that mushroom clouds could accompany Congress's failure to act. This time, it is financial Armageddon supposedly on the doorstep.
 ''This is scare tactics to try to do something that's in the private but not the public interest,'' said Allan Meltzer, a former economic adviser to President Reagan, and an expert on monetary policy at the Carnegie Mellon Tepper School of Business. ''It's terrible.''
 In part, Mr. Paulson's credibility has been dented by his pronouncements in previous weeks that the crisis was already contained. Some suggest this was a well-intentioned effort to stem panic. But the aftermath complicates his quest for the bailout.
 ''If you view your public statements as an instrument of policy, people don't believe you anymore,'' said Vincent R. Reinhart, a former Federal Reserve economist and now a scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.
 The biggest point of contention is over whether and how taxpayers would benefit if the bailout succeeded in righting the financial system, sending banking stocks upward.
 In Mr. Paulson's plan, the Treasury would have the right to buy as much as $700 billion worth of troubled investments, with the taxpayer recouping the proceeds when those investments were sold over coming years. But many economists -- Mr. Elmendorf among them -- argue that taxpayers should get more out of the deal, securing stock in the banks that make use of the bailout. The government could then sell off that stock at a profit when conditions improve. A similar approach was used successfully in Sweden in the early 1990s when its financial system melted down. 
 Others argue that any bailout must pinch the people who have run the companies now needing rescue, along with their shareholders, addressing the unseemly reality that executives have amassed beach houses and fat bank accounts while taxpayers are now stuck with the bill for their reckless ways.
 ''It absolutely has to be punitive,'' Mr. Baker said. ''If they sell us the junk, then we own the company. This isn't a way to make these companies and their executives rich. This should be about keeping them in business so the financial system doesn't collapse.''
 Other questions center on how to value what the Treasury aims to purchase -- an issue that goes to the heart of the crisis itself. 
 The financial system got to its dangerous perch by betting extravagantly on real estate. When housing prices began plummeting and borrowers stopped making payments, financial institutions found themselves with huge inventories of bad loans. Not simple loans, but complex investments created by pooling millions of mortgages together and then slicing them into pieces. These were the investments that Wall Street bought, sold and borrowed against in cooking up the money it poured into housing.
 The trouble is that these investments are so intertwined and complex that no one seems able to figure out what they are worth. So no one has been willing to buy them. This is why banks have been in lockdown mode: with mystery enshrouding both the value of their assets and their future losses, banks have held tight to their remaining dollars, depriving the economy of capital.
 Now, the Treasury aims to clear the fog by buying up these investments. But their value is as mysterious as ever. 
 ''There's a tendency for people to think these are stocks and bonds and you know what the price is,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a former White House economist under President Reagan. ''The problem is people are operating in a world in which nobody knows what the hell is going on. There's some naive assumptions about how this would function.''
 If Mr. Paulson pays the market rate -- whatever that is -- that presumably would not be enough to persuade banks to sell. Otherwise, they would have sold already. For the plan to work, Treasury has to pay a premium.
 ''It's a straight subsidy to financial institutions,'' said Martin Baily, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration, and now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''You're essentially giving them money.''
 Mr. Baily favors the basics of the Paulson plan, albeit with some mechanism that would give the government a slice of any resulting profits. And yet he remains troubled by the dearth of information combined with the abundance of zeroes in the bailout request.
 ''I'd like a clearer statement of what we were afraid was going to happen that requires $700 billion,'' Mr. Baily said. ''Maybe they don't want to talk about it because it would scare everybody, but it's a bit much to ask.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Douglas W. Elmendorf
Dean Baker
Allan H. Meltzer (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BROOKINGS INSTITUTION
DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); FAMILY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (62%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008



701 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Governing Party Picks New Leader

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Taro Aso, an outspoken conservative who has advocated a return to old-style government spending to stimulate Japan's economy, was chosen Monday by the governing Liberal Democratic Party to become the nation's next prime minister.
 Mr. Aso, a former foreign minister, won two-thirds of the vote for the presidency of the party, easily beating four other candidates who included the first woman to seek the job. The party's control of the lower house of Parliament virtually ensures that he will replace current Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda in a parliamentary session on Wednesday. 
 The party is counting on Mr. Aso, who turned 68 on Saturday, to guide it out of its worst crisis in a half-century of rule, after Mr. Fukuda and his predecessor, Shinzo Abe, both stepped down within the last year amid dismal approval ratings. To supporters, Mr. Aso is a veteran lawmaker and former president of a cement company who will bring a steady hand to the tiller at a time when Japan faces the threat of recession at home and turmoil in global financial markets.
 To critics, Mr. Aso is a throwback to the party's big-spending ways who threatens a decade of reforms that shrank government and partially freed Japan's economy. They also warn of the hawkish Mr. Aso's propensity for verbal gaffes, which have angered Asian neighbors in the past by stirring up bitter memories of Japan's prewar imperial expansion.
 In a brief acceptance speech, Mr. Aso (pronounced ah-so) spoke in grave tones of leading the party and Japan as a personal ''mission,'' reflecting his long-standing ambition to gain his nation's highest office. He vowed to focus on winning crucial upcoming elections and keeping the Liberal Democrats in power.
 ''As I stand here, I think that this is a mission given to Taro Aso,'' he told Liberal Democratic lawmakers gathered for the vote. ''Only after winning the election can I say that I have accomplished this mission.''
 In a race that was his to lose, Mr. Aso stressed pocketbook issues, promising to revive the economy with increased government spending and tax cuts for businesses and individuals. These measures seemed particularly aimed at rural areas, the Liberal Democrats' traditional base, where there has been growing discontent as local economies lag behind prosperous cities like Tokyo.
 ''Mr. Aso wants to reverse the hemorrhaging of voters in the countryside,'' said Tomoaki Iwai, a professor of politics at Nihon University. ''To do that, he will take Japan in a different direction from the Koizumi reforms,'' he said, referring to former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who slashed public spending.
 Mr. Aso takes office at a time when Japan, the world's second-largest economy after the United States, has played only a bit role in the response to Wall Street's housing-related meltdown. Japan has so far been relatively unscathed by the unfolding financial crisis, and Mr. Aso has indicated that his main response will be stimulating the Japanese economy to pick up some of the slack in the global economy.
 ''America could face a financial crisis that rivals the Great Depression,'' Mr. Aso said in a speech Saturday. ''Japan has to take action by improving its economy in order to revive domestic demand.''
 The Liberal Democrats hope Mr. Aso will prove popular to woo voters back to the party, which faces lower house elections as early as late October amid low approval ratings, a newly powerful opposition and a slumping economy. The scion of a large industrial group, Mr. Aso's populist touch and well known affection for Japan's manga cartoons popular with young people have helped him top recent national surveys for next prime minister.
 Mr. Aso won an unusually open party election that in some ways had more of the feel of an American primary than a traditional Liberal Democratic vote in smoky backrooms. Monday's victory also seemed to be the culmination of a career-long quest for Mr. Aso, who has run for prime minister four times in seven years, and in speeches often invokes his grandfather, Shigeru Yoshida, Japan's powerful postwar prime minister.
 However, other aspects of his family history have also dogged him, particularly revelations that his family business conglomerate, the Aso Group, used Korean forced laborers during World War Two. Mr. Aso has also drawn criticism for such apparent slips of tongue as crediting Japanese colonial-era policies for Taiwan's current high education levels, and for saying that Koreans actually requested Japan's colonial policy of forcing Koreans to adopt Japanese names.
 Despite his conservative personal views, Mr. Aso is widely seen here by foes and friends alike as a pragmatist who shuns a rigidly right-wing agenda. As foreign minister last year, he helped arrange visits to Beijing and Seoul by then Prime Minister Abe that were applauded for warming relations with Asia.
 In fact, one of Mr. Aso's political hallmarks seems to be his ability to shift positions depending on political winds. Asked to name Mr. Aso's signature policies during his 29-year political career, political analysts and lawmakers were hard-pressed to come up with an answer.
 ''Mr. Aso doesn't really stand for anything besides his own ambitions,'' said Minoru Morita, a political analyst who runs an independent research institute in Tokyo. ''I've seen him embrace doves as well as hawks within his party.''
 As prime minister, Mr. Aso is expected to continue to seek improvement of Japan's often testy ties with China and South Korea. He has also said he favors close ties with Washington, Tokyo's traditional benefactor.
 Mr. Aso has given few specifics on the size of the stimulus measures, beyond saying they will postpone Japan's goal of balancing its budget by 2012. He has said vaguely that in a few years time, once Japan's economy is growing healthily, he wants the country to once again reduce government spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); TAX LAW (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (91%); SHINZO ABE (79%); YASUO FUKUDA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



702 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Canadian Group Plans to Curb Emissions

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
An alliance of seven Western states and four Canadian provinces unveiled a blueprint on Tuesday for the most far-reaching effort in North America to curb emissions linked to climate change. 
 The draft of the proposal by the alliance, the Western Climate Initiative, is intended to achieve a 15 percent cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020. It cuts emissions from industries across the economy and from transportation and housing; a plan being put into effect by 10 northeastern states covers only the electric utility industry. 
 But for all the breadth of the group's plan, it also reflects the affected industries' ability to win significant concessions to ease their entry into a new system, under which, for the first time, they must pay for emissions of heat-trapping gases, like carbon dioxide.
 The draft plan, which will not take effect until 2012, sets a mandatory cap on greenhouse-gas emissions that would rachet down year by year. The industries covered, like electric utilities or petroleum refiners, would be granted allowances and would have to use one allowance to cover every metric ton of heat-trapping gases they emit.
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican, said in a statement, ''We're sending a strong message to our federal governments that states and provinces are moving forward in the absence of federal action, and we're setting the stage for national programs that are just as aggressive.''
 California, which passed its own groundbreaking legislation on combating climate change two years ago, is the largest of the states involved and one of the most experienced in broad-based regulation. The others in the alliance are Arizona, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington and the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec.
 The political, economic and geographic disparity among the partners has led to strains. Both houses of the Arizona State Legislature passed a measure earlier this year requiring legislative approval for state participation; the bill was vetoed by Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat.
 ''It's a very diverse group of states,'' said Ned Farquhar, a climate-policy expert with the Albuquerque offices of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental organization. ''And it's biting off a much bigger bite. Naturally there's going to be a broader range of opinion inside the partners.''
 Unlike the final plan of the northeastern states, the western plan, reflecting industry suggestions, requires that only 10 percent of the allowances to emit gases be sold at auction; the rest are given to individual industries. The allowances may be traded in a secondary market, which effectively sets a price for carbon-dioxide emissions.
 A similar approach, tried in the first so-called cap-and-trade program in Europe, led to windfall profits for some industries. 
 The northeastern states are auctioning off more than 90 percent of their allowances; the first auction is set to take place on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); VETO (71%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



703 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: In Bailout Furor, Wall St. Pay Becomes Target for Congress

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Eric Dash, Landon Thomas Jr., Leslie Wayne and Ben White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Congress wants Wall Street to feel it where it hurts: the wallet.
 The stratospheric pay packages of Wall Street executives have become a lightning rod issue as Congress shapes a $700 billion bailout for financial firms. Proposals circulating on Capitol Hill vary, but they all would impose some limits or approval authority on salaries of executives whose firms seek help.
 The moves in Washington mirror the popular outcry -- in constituent e-mail messages and postings in the blogosphere -- over the prospect of Wall Street's tarnished titans walking away with tens of millions of dollars a year while taxpayers pick up the bill. 
 But Wall Street, its lobbyists and trade groups are waging a feverish lobbying campaign to try to fight compensation curbs. Pay restrictions, they say, would sap incentives to hard work and innovation, and hurt the financial sector and the American economy. 
 ''We support the bill, but we are opposed to provisions on executive pay,'' said Scott Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs at the Financial Services Roundtable, a trade group. ''It is not appropriate for government to be setting the salaries of executives.''
 Yet some formal restraint on executive pay seems unavoidable, even sensible, some finance experts and economists said. 
 Arthur Levitt Jr., a former Wall Street executive as well as a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said pay curbs on executives whose firms take part in the bailout were essential for Congressional approval and were reasonable.
 The finance industry, Mr. Levitt added, will continue to offer handsome salaries for the successful, though not as high as in the boom years. ''The golden egg has disappeared,'' he said.
 Scott A. Shay, chairman of Signature Bank, which holds no high-risk securities, called a limit on executive pay for firms participating in the bailout only fair. 
 ''If that doesn't happen, you are effectively advantaging the institutions that made those risky bets at taxpayers' cost,'' Mr. Shay said. ''What sense does that make?''
 Across the Atlantic, there is also an appetite for stepping into pay practices in the finance industry. This week, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain called ''unacceptable'' the practice of linking bonus payments to high-risk investments that delivered hefty profits in the short term. 
 His Treasury minister, Alistair Darling, echoed that view by saying that Britain's main regulator, the Financial Service Authority, should take a hard look at regulating pay.
 Angry sentiments on the issue in Congress were palpable on Tuesday, when Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified before the Senate banking committee. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the committee, said the ''authors of this calamity'' should not walk away enriched.
 The presidential candidates, Senators Barack Obama and John McCain, have also called for pay limits.
 The proposals in Washington are still tentative, and often vague. A Senate draft document calls for a ban on incentive payments that the Treasury deems ''inappropriate or excessive'' and a ''claw-back'' provision, requiring executives to give up pay or severance benefits if the firm's financial results are later shown to be overstated. 
 Other proposals call for a ban on severance payments and allowing large shareholders, with a stake of 3 percent or more, to propose alternative slates of directors. This would be an effort to tackle excessive pay practices by opening up and strengthening corporate governance. 
 Some corporate governance experts say hastily devised compensation curbs in the bailout package would be a mistake and perhaps open the door to unintended consequences.
 ''Clearly, the level of pay at some of the Wall Street firms was appalling, given the performance,'' said Charles M. Elson, a corporate governance expert at the University of Delaware. ''But the bailout is about saving the economy, while executive pay is a separate, and complex, issue.''
 In 1993, Mr. Elson noted, Congress limited the tax deductibility of executive salaries to $1 million, unless it could be demonstrated that the extra pay was linked to performance incentives. That move, he said, contributed to the practice in later years of very generous grants of stock options, which helped drive executive pay to new heights.
 In 2007, the total compensation of chief executives in large American corporations was 275 times that of the salary of the average worker, the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization, estimates. In the late 1970s, chief executive pay was 35 times that of the average American worker.
 Wall Street has been the top tier of the corporate pay range, with executives earning eight-figure salaries. Its bonus system, which rewards short-term trading profits, has been singled out as an incentive for Wall Street executives to expand their highly profitable business in exotic securities and ignore the risks.
 ''This financial crisis is a direct result of the compensation practices at these Wall Street firms,'' said Paul Hodgson, a senior analyst at the Corporate Library, a governance research group.
 One possible answer, compensation analysts and economists say, would be to stretch out payments for several years, encouraging executives to pursue the long-term health and stability of the firms they head.
 ''I'm of a free-market, conservative bent, but I am sympathetic to some reshaping of executive pay on Wall Street,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''For sure, I would consider very long-term payouts, up to 10 years out.''
 Whether Congress acts on executive pay or not, Wall Street pay levels are destined to come under pressure, said Michael Karp, chief executive of the Options Group, an executive search firm. The fallout from the financial crisis and the consolidation in the industry, he said, inevitably mean that more people will be competing for fewer jobs, dragging down salaries.
 ''Of course, superstars will always get paid,'' Mr. Karp said. ''But they won't be the way they used to be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS KAMM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A25) CHART: LOPSIDED PAYCHECKS: Compensation of chief executives of large American companies grew to 275 times that of the average worker's salary in 2007.
 Average chief executive pay as a multiple of average worker pay (Source: Economic Policy Institute) (pg.A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); LEGISLATION (79%); LOBBYING (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TESTIMONY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BAILOUT BONUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); HENRY PAULSON (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALISTAIR DARLING (54%); GORDON BROWN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



704 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Failing the World's Poor

 BODY:
Good intentions wither fast, especially when it comes to helping the world's poor.
 At the turn of the millennium, world leaders committed to cutting extreme global poverty in half and to achieving deep reductions in malnutrition and child mortality rates. They followed that up in 2005 with a pledge to increase development assistance to $130 billion a year by 2010 (about $151 billion in today's money). 
 That was then. Today, even as soaring energy and food prices exacerbate the suffering of the world's poor, the richest nations are falling far behind on their aid commitments -- and behind their past giving. 
 The current financial turmoil could make it even less likely that the wealthy nations will fulfill their promises to the poorest of the poor. Without that money, many of the development goals announced with such fanfare will go unmet. 
 Aid from the world's developed countries fell by almost 13 percent between 2005 and 2007 -- to under $104 billion, after inflation. The aggregate aid budget of the most developed nations amounts to 0.28 percent of their gross national income, woefully below the target of 0.7 percent agreed to by world leaders in 2002 .
 Only Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Denmark meet the target. Canada's overseas aid amounts to 0.28 percent of its income. Japan's is 0.17 percent. The United States, shamefully, is at the bottom of the list, spending 0.16 percent of its income on development assistance. 
 Many countries tie too many strings to their largess -- such as requirements to buy supplies from donor countries. (Aid flows are often swayed by domestic politics in the donor nations, making them unpredictable and difficult to manage by receiving nations.) 
 Aid isn't the only area where the developed world is failing. After the 2001 terrorist attacks, wealthy countries acknowledged that poverty can be a fertile ground for terrorism and pledged to open their markets to exports from the world's poorest nations. Those promises collapsed along with global trade talks this year. 
 The world's poor still desperately needs the help. According to a new World Bank study, 1.4 billion people lived in extreme poverty in 2005. Twenty-seven percent of children under 5 in the developing world were underweight. Their mortality rate was 83 per 1,000 live births, about 14 times the rate in rich nations. And whatever gains have been made against the most abject poverty, they risk being undone by the rising price of food.
 Speaking to the United Nations this week, the secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, warned that the world is facing a ''development crisis,'' and he expressed his fear that wealthy nations would now fall even further behind in their commitments. We share that fear. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORWAY (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (69%); NETHERLANDS (69%); LUXEMBOURG (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



705 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Rules Would Hobble Any Financial Rescue

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Stephen Castle contributed reporting from Brussels.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Major European banks have begun expanding across the Continent, amassing large pools of capital and customers. Yet bank regulation at the European Union level has hardly kept up.
 Should one of the new Continental giants find itself under threat, as has happened to some banks in the United States, the European bank would be forced to deal with a multitude of potential crisis managers, none with overarching authority.
 ''If, God forbid, we get to that point, the arrangements will prove inadequate,'' Richard Portes, professor of economics at the London Business School, said. 
 European lenders have been spared the worst of the fallout on Wall Street, but the patchwork of rules that apply to financial services firms is causing concern nevertheless. Regulation in Europe remains primarily at the national level. Initiatives in Brussels to create an overarching regulator have been stamped out by politicians.
 Some countries, like Britain, Germany, Ireland and Sweden, have moved to a single supervisor who oversees not just banks but also other segments of the financial services industry, like insurance and securities. Other countries, like France and Spain, have retained an older model with different regulators for different sectors.
 The coordination of European financial supervision has gradually improved, analysts said. For example, regulators meet periodically in committees to advise the European Commission on drafting rules.
 But the kind of bailout under way in the United States would be difficult in Europe. Rescuing even one major bank operating across borders would require a political will and coordination that might be lacking.
 There is also a patchwork of regulators in the United States. But the two primary bodies -- the Federal Reserve and the Treasury -- were able to move quickly and jointly to create the $700 billion rescue plan, which needs Congressional approval.
 In Europe, the opaque nature of rules in different countries concerning the insolvency of financial institutions is causing particular unease.
 A European directive calls for the home country's jurisdiction to take the lead and equal treatment of creditors within the organization. But laws governing failed banks differ markedly from country to country, with some favoring debtors and others, creditors. Also, there is no common definition of bank insolvency and no common rule to determine when a bank should be closed.
 Central bankers and supervisors in Europe periodically hold crisis simulation exercises. But analysts expressed doubts about whether they would be able to exchange accurate and timely information on each bank's risk profile to contain a crisis promptly.
 ''Look at how fast the U.S. had to move'' to bail out the insurance giant the American International Group and to decide to let the investment bank Lehman Brothers collapse, Mr. Portes said.
 ''There's a big distinction between liquidity and solvency,'' he added. ''It's very hard to tell whether an institution is illiquid or insolvent. If it's insolvent, it's down to the taxpayer, but which taxpayer is liable in the case of a cross-border bank?''
 In April, European finance ministers took a first step by signing a memorandum of understanding that bound national authorities to favor private-sector rescues where possible, and that urged them to decide in advance who would foot the bill for banks that operate in more than one country if state bailouts were required.
 The document, which came into effect in June, called on countries to consider creating ''cross-border stability groups,'' building on existing supervisory networks. These, for example, operate between Belgium and the Netherlands to monitor cross-border banks.
 Charlie McCreevy, the European internal market commissioner, is expected to go further next week and propose greater coordination of national regulators to deal with cross-border banking crises.
 The commissioner ''is producing a number of concrete regulatory proposals to improve the rules for financial institutions dealing on a cross-border basis,'' his spokesman, Oliver Drewes, said.
 While banking integration in Europe has proceeded at a relatively slow pace, there have been several cross-border deals. Banco Santander of Spain, for example, owns the British mortgage lenders Alliance & Leicester and Abbey National, and has consumer finance operations in a number of countries. UniCredit of Italy now owns HVB of Germany and Bank Austria. In October, Royal Bank of Scotland led a European consortium to buy ABN Amro of the Netherlands.
 When Northern Rock, which operated almost exclusively in Britain and almost collapsed after its financing dried up, was nationalized, it was relatively simple, notwithstanding some concerns about state aid expressed by the European Commission. 
 The German government, working through a state-owned bank, managed the insolvency and eventual sale of IKB Deutsche Industriebank.
 In many countries, the central bank takes a leadership role when a financial crisis occurs because, as the issuer of money and the conduit of lending to banks in money markets, it can most readily offer emergency financing to the markets or to individual banks. 
 But the European Central Bank's crisis role is constrained. For political reasons, it is not a ''lender of last resort,'' a phrase used by economists to describe an institution willing to extend credit when no one else will. In the United States, that role is served by the Federal Reserve.
 Still, the European Central Bank has proved adept in handling the liquidity issues related to the current crisis, providing large amounts of money for banks to borrow.
 ''If you have a liquidity crisis, the E.C.B. can do the job,'' said Graham Bishop, an independent consultant on financial services in Europe, ''but when you have a solvency crisis, it falls to governments.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); APPROVALS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



706 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. Looks Into 4 Firms At Center Of the Storm

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Bureau of Investigation, under pressure to look at possible criminal activity in the financial markets, is expanding its corporate fraud inquiries in the wake of the tumult in the last 10 days, officials said Tuesday.
 The F.B.I. has now opened preliminary investigations into possible fraud involving the four giant corporations at the center of the recent turmoil -- Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Lehman Brothers and the American International Group, The Associated Press reported.
 A government official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue publicly, said it was ''logical to assume'' that those four companies would come under investigation because of the many questions surrounding their recent collapse. 
 F.B.I. officials said Tuesday that the total number of corporate fraud investigations at the bureau was 26, an increase from the 24 open cases cited just a week ago by Robert S. Mueller III, director of the F.B.I. That number stood at 21 as recently as July, but the bureau has not named most of the targets.
 Mr. Mueller told members of the Senate Judiciary Committee that the major corporate investigations are aimed at companies that ''may have engaged in misstatements in the course of what transpired during this financial crisis.''
 He added that ''the F.B.I. will pursue these cases as far up the corporate chain as is necessary to ensure that those responsible receive the justice they deserve.''
 In addition to the major corporate cases, the bureau said it had about 1,400 open investigations into smaller companies and individuals suspected of mortgage fraud. 
 Nonetheless, the bureau and the Justice Department have come under pressure from some critics who assert that investigators need to take a broader and more comprehensive approach to the financial inquiries. But Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey has rejected calls for the Justice Department to create the type of national task force that it did in 2002 to respond to the collapse of Enron. 
 Mr. Mukasey said in June that the mortgage crisis was a different ''type of phenomena'' that was a more localized problem akin to ''white-collar street crime.''
 Officials at the Justice Department declined to comment on Tuesday on which companies were under investigation by the bureau. ''As part of our investigative responsibility, the F.B.I. conducts corporate fraud investigations,'' Brian J. Roehrkasse, spokesman for the department, said in a statement. ''The number of cases fluctuates over time. However, we do not discuss which companies may or may not be the subject of an investigation.''
 In a major case in June, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn brought conspiracy and securities fraud charges against two portfolio managers at Bear Stearns, which nearly collapsed in June before it was bought for a fire-sale price. 
 When that prosecution was announced, Deputy Attorney General Mark R. Filip acknowledged that the mortgage crisis ''includes a wide variety of criminal acts that have proved devastating to American families.''
 Still, several senators at last week's hearing by the judiciary committee made it clear that they wanted to see the F.B.I. take aggressive steps to investigate possible criminal wrongdoing in connection with the crisis.
 Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who leads the committee, told Mr. Mueller that ''obviously everybody's concerned where the U.S. government's on the hook'' for up to $1 trillion in bailout costs.
 ''And if people were cooking the books, manipulating, doing things they were not supposed to do, then I want people held responsible. And I suspect every American taxpayer -- I don't care what their political background is -- would like them held responsible,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MUKASEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



707 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Vulture Investors Making Plans To Snag Weak Banks on the Cheap

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Even before the ink dries on a proposed $700 billion bailout for the financial industry, Wall Street players have begun jockeying to be the first ones to snap up distressed investments on the cheap. 
 As they try to make sense of how a government bailout would play, vulture investors are combing through balance sheets of possible targets that could run into trouble if banks start calling back loans to businesses and the economy worsens. 
 In the beaten-down banking industry, private equity investors are scrambling to find investment opportunities in downtrodden community and regional banks that can be nursed back to profitability in a turnaround. 
 In the coming weeks and months, these investors are betting the opportunities will become clearer. They are preparing for a field day for deals, not only in the financial industry, but in the industrial, retail and other sectors where the flagging economy and tight credit will push more companies to the brink. 
 In a sign that the climate of fear that had frozen some big deals may be thawing, Warren E. Buffett announced plans Tuesday to invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs. Analysts also questioned whether Morgan Stanley, the venerable investment bank, could still become a takeover target even after it secured a huge investment on Tuesday by Mitsibushi UFJ Financial Group.
 ''There is a growing crowd of hedge funds and private equity firms and stronger banks that are shopping. They are all going to bid against each other,'' said Christopher Whalen, a managing partner at Institutional Risk Analytics. ''A lot of my clients see financials in 2009 and 2010 as being a huge home run,'' he added. 
 To be sure, it is still unclear how firms that buckled under the weight of toxic mortgage assets will be treated under the plan of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. to stabilize the housing market -- the root of the crisis that has left a litter of banks and companies scattered across the economic landscape for vulture buyers to pick through. 
 Indeed, Mr. Paulson and Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, spent much of the day in tense testimony before skeptical members of the Senate Banking Committee. The outlines of the emergency plan appeared uncertain after lawmakers raised concerns about its size and scope, driving the stock market sharply down for a second day. 
 As long as that continues, the fate of several big banks whose fortunes may yet be altered by the final contours of the rescue package remain in flux. 
 Washington Mutual, one of the nation's biggest and most troubled financial institutions, remains locked in a dance with several suitors, all hestitant about a union until they can understand more clearly just how the government's plan to siphon soured assets out of banks like WaMu will work. 
 The banks bidding for Washington Mutual -- like J. P. Morgan, Citigroup, Banco Santander and Wells Fargo &#151; are trying to calculate how much they should pay for a company whose losses may eventually reach $30 billion. The sum may also depend on how many tainted assets Washington Mutual might dump into a government bailout fund, and what price the government or private parties might pay for those assets. 
 Also unclear is whether the scope of assets to be salvaged by the government will include commercial real estate and credit card loans, on top of troubled home loans and mortgage-related securities. 
 Washington Mutual faces several pressure points that suggest a deal will need to be carried out soon if the bank -- considered one of Wall Street's weakest links after the failure of Lehman Brothers last week -- is to avoid outright collapse. Such a move could cost taxpayers billions more because it would virtually wipe out the federal deposit insurance fund. 
 The bank, which grew into a behemoth over the last decade through a series of acquisitions that proved its undoing, has seen its name in headlines alongside other troubled giants of the financial world, including Lehman Brothers and American International Group. To attract customer deposits, Washington Mutual has been offering 5 percent for one-year certificates of deposit -- exceeding the 4 percent that other weakened banks are offering. 
 Despite WaMu's problems, its suitors are eager to gain access to a lucrative consumer base that it has built throughout the country. J. P. Morgan wants to gain a foothold in California, where Washington Mutual has plenty of branches, a move that would further entrench it in key markets like Chicago and New York. 
 Citigroup is interested in access to a deposit-gathering franchise in several big markets, which would raise its overall number of branches. Banco Santander would expand its presence in the United States. Wells Fargo, already a big player in California, would prevent J. P. Morgan and other potential rivals from encroaching on its territory. 
 Under its former chief executive Kerry Killinger, the Washington Mutual dove into a particularly risky part of the mortgage business, making option adjustable rate mortgage arm loans to the least creditworthy borrowers, who were permitted to pay only a portion of the principle and interest. 
 While the new chief executive, Alan Fishman, had more of Wall Street's confidence, it has become too late to resolve the ailing bank's problems, analysts said. 
 Some analysts had even asked whether TPG, formerly Texas Pacific Group, which together with other investors had put $7 billion into WaMu, might add more capital. But that generally seemed unlikely. The group had invested roughly $8.75 a share and was well under water on that investment while the government announced a major overhaul that might take the troubled loans off Washington Mutual's balance sheet. 
 Nevertheless, shareholders have a stake in a company that has great appeal to other banks because of its wide depositor base which could provide stable capital to another buyer. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Banks bidding for Washington Mutual are trying to calculate how much they should pay, which depends on how many toxic assets might be dumped into a government bailout fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); SANT (LIS) (58%); SANT (BIT) (58%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (58%); SAN (NYSE) (58%); SAN (MCE) (58%); SAN (BMV) (58%); BNC (LSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



708 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: In Washington's NoMa, a Trendy Name and High Hopes

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A decade ago, NoMa, a stretch of the nation's capital north of Massachusetts Avenue, was nowhere. Today, although still a work in progress, it's Washington's newest and hottest commercial neighborhood, with residential development expected to follow.
 The name itself, which began as a marketing ploy to mimic trendy New York neighborhoods like SoHo and TriBeCa, has caught on among a fraternity of developers, builders and city planners, if not yet with the general public. 
 But with a sluggish economy, NoMa had a second-quarter office vacancy rate of 14.5 percent, much of it newly built space. This rate is the highest of Washington's submarkets, according to an analysis by Grubb & Ellis, and there are concerns in the current economic crisis about the pace of development. 
 The corridor is two or three blocks wide and stretches about a mile north from Union Station, Washington's train terminal, and within sight of the Capitol dome. The area formerly held mainly parking lots, warehouses and light industry. 
 Train tracks and an elevated Metro subway line run north-south through the neighborhood, dividing but also anchoring it with two Metro stops, at Union Station and New York Avenue.
 The newer station, the one at New York Avenue, is ''really the catalyst,'' said Elizabeth Price, president of the nonprofit NoMa Business Improvement District, an association of commercial property owners formed to promote and enhance the area.
 The $100 million rail station, which opened in 2004, was financed in part with $25 million from commercial property owners. It is the only one in the 86-station, 103-mile system that received private funds, as well as $50 million from the United States Department of Transportation and $25 million from the District of Columbia. 
 The construction of the station was part of a building boom that is rapidly bringing daytime office workers to NoMa. In 2001, the area became home to XM Satellite Radio; the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms moved in, with 1,500 employees, in September 2007.
 They are to be joined by major offices of the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security and National Public Radio. Several office buildings and hotels are under construction, totaling about 2.8 million square feet. Rental apartments are scheduled to be built, and retailing is starting to appear.
 Since 2004, NoMa has received $1.5 billion in new private investment, and the total might grow to $7 billion as the neighborhood develops. ''It's greatly underserved, and there's going to be huge demand'' for stores and restaurants to serve the workers in the area, said William Orlove, leasing director of JBG Rosenthal Retail. ''In last two years, we've seen things go from two or three retailers to half a dozen to a dozen. The growth is going to be meteoric.''
 NoMa seemed to gain momentum in March with a flurry of announcements. One day, NPR said it planned to move its headquarters in 2012 into a former telephone company warehouse. The next day, the Justice Department said it had agreed to a 15-year lease, starting in 2010, for 521,000 square feet to house 2,000 criminal division employees in a proposed 12-story office building, part of a 1.4-million-square-foot mixed-use project known as Constitution Square, which is being developed by StonebridgeCarras, based in Bethesda, Md. 
 ''That was a seismic change in people's perception of NoMa, all within three weeks,'' said Doug Firstenberg, a principal of StonebridgeCarras. ''Until then, I think people's perception was, 'Great plan, great vision, lots of promise, but who are going to be first beside A.T.F. to come to NoMa?' '' 
 Construction of Constitution Square began in April. Adjoining the New York Avenue Metro station, the project will also have a Harris Teeter supermarket, a 440-unit rental apartment building and a 204-room Hilton Garden Hotel. 
 ''By the time D.O.J. moves in, the NoMa neighborhood will be well on its way to realizing its mixed-use vision with a total of some 20 million square feet of new office, retail, residential and hotel space,'' Ms. Price, the head of the business improvement district, said in a statement at the time of the announcement. 
 For now, however, NoMa has 836,000 square feet of vacant office space, according to Grubb & Ellis, and that may rise as a major office building recently opened and another is to be completed next summer. ''It's really too early to tell'' how the current financial crisis will affect NoMa, Ms. Price said, ''because things are changing so quickly. We were already in a tight credit situation this summer. I guess I'm cautiously optimistic.''
 It is possible that greater government regulation of the financial system could bolster the demand for office space as agencies are beefed up, she said. ''I'm hopeful this will play out and we'll get back to a more healthy market sooner rather than later,'' Ms. Price said. 
 Builders and leasing agents say they are hopeful that the economy will have rebounded by the time the new buildings under construction or planned for NoMa are completed. ''Our job is to procure financing to do our business as we move forward, and we're still doing that,'' said Robert Seldin, senior vice president of Archstone-Smith, a national apartment development company with ties to Lehman Brothers.
 The company is still looking for a construction loan to build a 469-unit rental building in NoMa. ''The fundamentals of business are still sound,'' he said. ''It's a question of who has money to lend and under what terms.'' 
 For District of Columbia officials, NoMa represents a logical eastward extension of the city's recent economic boom, which caused vacancies to decline and rents to rise in its central business district. 
 Tenants and builders saw NoMa as attractive, in part because of cheaper rents resulting from lower land costs. City officials initially thought the area would develop as a high-tech corridor, but that notion evaporated with the dot-com bust of the late 1990s. 
 Then XM Radio moved there, and the New York Avenue Metro rail station opened. ''Frankly, it's taken a long time,'' said Chance Patterson, XM's vice president for corporate affairs. ''While the last two or three years has been sort of like gangbusters, with one site broken ground after the next, there was a five-year period when it was a challenge.'' 
 Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District of Columbia's nonvoting delegate in Congress, said she pushed the General Services Administration to steer federal agencies that might have preferred downtown locations to NoMa, primarily because of its attractive prices. 
 Mike McGill, a spokesman for the G.S.A., said: ''We're now at a point where NoMa is becoming a prestigious enough address that it's fine. All the cards indicate NoMa's going to be a hot address.''
 The city government has lured private developers to NoMa with long-term tax abatements, amounting to as much as $35 million near the New York Avenue Metro station, according to Neil Albert, the deputy mayor for planning and economic development. The resulting lower rents may attract nonprofits to locate in the neighborhood, he added. 
 Bill Dickinson, senior director of brokerage for the Rappoport Companies, leasing agent for two large office buildings and one residential project in NoMa, says he thinks the long-term outlook is bright. ''In eight or 10 years,'' he said, ''it's clearly going to be a thriving urban environment.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A government office near a construction site, top, and a new building by Tishman Speyer, above, in the NoMa area of Washington.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); PUBLIC RADIO (68%); FIREARMS (66%); RETAILERS (64%); SATELLITE RADIO (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GRUBB & ELLIS CO (56%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



709 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: On the Street, a Time to Pivot

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Not everybody on Wall Street is a millionaire, and as the turmoil in the markets spreads, it is as much a pandemic of the everyman as it is of the Hamptons set. 
 For every Porsche-driving trader, two to three people at these companies answer the phones, keep the computers running and shine the floors. Their pay was not in the same league as the traders' and investment bankers', but they were paid more than they would have been paid for similar work in a different industry. And they shared in the reflected glow.
 Some were like Sanjeev Naraine, who was 22 when he walked into Bear Stearns's headquarters in early 2000 for the first time and felt as if he was walking onto a movie set. Fast-moving, self-assured traders and bankers, top-of-the-line computers, a juicy steak dinner on the corporate account and a Town Car to drive him home. Mesmerized, he quit college to join the technology support staff.
 Now, Mr. Naraine says, for him, going to work is like going to a funeral. He is part of the ''transition team'' in the fallen company's merger with JPMorgan Chase, and he wistfully counts each day leading up to his last one, Oct. 31. 
 Across the river from Lehman Brothers's headquarters, in Jersey City, the company's support staff has mixed feelings about their more highly paid colleagues.
 ''You can't help but look at what's gone on in Wall Street with lending and with derivative securities and you can't help but be kind of upset,'' said a technology worker, who asked to remain anonymous because he did not want to be fired. ''You guys have tanked our economy, you guys invented these things to get rich, and it backfired on us all.''
 It will be many months before it is clear where Wall Street's downward spiral will stop. Already, more than 120,000 jobs have been cut across the industry, and some analysts bumped their estimates upward by 10 to 20 percent last week after two investment banks, Lehman and Merrill Lynch, lost their independence. One rationale for mergers, like Merrill's marriage to Bank of America, is to cut expenses and overlapping jobs.
 The storyline has already played out at Bear, which was acquired by JPMorgan in March for $10 a share. The bank hired just about half of Bear's 13,500 workers and kept about 600 in short-term transition teams. JPMorgan also tried to help Bear employees find new jobs through what it called its Talent Network and has now offered to share the network with Merrill and Lehman. ''I think people feel generally relieved to be here given the market turmoil we've seen,'' said Jeff Urwin, a Bear employee who became the head of JPMorgan's investment bank.
 Some from Bear say now that they feel fortunate to have fallen first, before the job market deteriorated further.
 ''Who'd have thought we were the lucky ones by going down first?'' said Vincent Van Pelt, a Bear executive who is now the global head of equity derivatives and commodities for Standard Chartered, a British bank with a large presence in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
 One Lehman employee who works in London said: ''A lot of people have put their heart and souls in these companies. They feel betrayed by a number of factors: the market, the management, the regulators.'' The employee, who did not want his name used because he did not have permission to speak with the media, added, ''A friend of mine who was at the Bear sent me an e-mail saying, 'I don't have to imagine what you're going through.' ''
 The Friday before Lehman filed for bankruptcy, Sept. 12, should have been an unabashedly joyous day for Lance Bylow, a senior vice president in Lehman's private investment management business. His wife, a part-time event planner, gave birth to their second child. But Mr. Bylow's job at Lehman remained in question until Monday, when Barclays Capital added it to the units it purchased.
 Mr. Van Pelt, the Bear executive, said London was home for him and his family, but he was so shaken by Bear's collapse that he was receptive to an offer to move to Singapore. He sat down with his wife and three children and they jointly made the decision.
 ''If you're some place for a long time, you just kind of get used to it,'' he said. ''This opened up our vistas.''
 One Bear worker who tried to play it safe was Doug Pugliese, an investment banker who said he saw trouble on the horizon beginning in 2006. He and his wife believed the easy credit could not last forever, so he purchased a house in an area in Pennsylvania that was less expensive than the New York suburbs. It meant nights away from his family, but a paid-off house.
 Then, in March, even Mr. Pugliese lost out. His Bear stock holdings crumbled, and a hedge he put on to short financial stocks became a wash when JPMorgan acquired Bear. With newborn twins and a toddler on his lap, Mr. Pugliese, 43, quickly pushed aside notions of leaving the industry. He now works at a valuation consulting firm called Marshall & Stevens.
 ''The thing about investment banking is it's so grueling that you are always daydreaming about going off and doing something interesting,'' Mr. Pugliese said. ''Your heart is crying out, but your wallet is telling you there's nothing else out there that is going to have this kind of payoff.''
 In New York, where nearly a quarter of earnings last year came from financial jobs, nerves are fraying around kitchen table conversations. The situation is all the worse because employees at nearly every level received part of their pay in company stock. Lehman's stock is now virtually worthless, and the stock of nearly every other Wall Street firm has lost much of its value. 
 ''Have people's psyches been shaken so badly that they will never contemplate working in this industry again? Or are they going to find God? I truly don't know,'' said Janet Hanson, a former banker and the president of 85 Broads, a women's organization that is trying to help Lehman employees connect with one another. ''You're going to have to sit down and have five drinks and really try to get your head around this.'' 
 Religion did help Andy Neff, a 20-year Bear worker. Mr. Neff, a former technology industry analyst, said he often thought about taking a year off to study the Talmud and other Jewish texts. But at the end of good years, he would not want to miss the next good year. And at the end of bad years, he felt too nervous about his finances. 
 And so Mr. Neff, now 51 and father of four, says he views what has happened as a blessing. He has become a bit of a folk hero to financial workers since June when he delivered a speech about his experience at the Yeshiva Gedolah of Teaneck, N.J. His talk was posted on several sites and forwarded among Bear workers.
 ''Is this comfortable? No, it's really not comfortable, it's disorienting,'' Mr. Neff said in an interview. ''But I find it unfortunate that people tend to focus on how much they lost. Coming out of every situation, you need to focus on what you have, not on what you lost.''
 Some of Mr. Neff's colleagues have already left Wall Street. Jessi Walter, a 27-year-old Harvard graduate who used to research credit products at Bear, is now running children's baking classes through a company called Cupcake Kids. George Raab was the finance officer for Bear's investment banking unit, and he is soon to start as chief financial officer for New York City's public school system.
 Life for other Bear alumni has not changed all that much. In Greenwich, Conn., 16 members of Bear's mortgage trading team still work together within a larger group at RBS Greenwich Capital. Nearly every one of the 50 or so people who worked for Bear's mortgage desk already have jobs around the Street, said Scott Eichel, co-head of mortgage and asset-backed trading at RBS.
 ''We've been here for two months, and I already feel like I've been here for years,'' Mr. Eichel said. ''It's human psyche when something happens to think the universe is ending. The one thing that someone said to me is, they can never take away your talent.''
 Moving past shock has been a slow journey for Mr. Naraine, the technology worker who dropped out of college to join Bear. He is now running two Web sites meant to connect Lehman and Bear Stearns alumni with others from those fallen firms. He started WhoKilledtheBear.com in the spring and is in the process of setting up ForeverLehman.com. He recently decided to go back to college in January. 
 ''I couldn't understand: How come me? How come me?'' Mr. Naraine said. ''I was just this average Joe, but I became captivated by Wall Street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sanjeev Naraine of Bear Stearns knows the company's merger with JPMorgan Chase means he will lose his job Oct. 31.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Former Bear Stearns employees, including members of the bank's mortgage investment unit, who now work at RBS Greenwich Capital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jessi Walter, who did credit research at Bear, now teaches children's baking classes, while Andy Neff prefers to look at his Bear exit as a blessing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Doug Pugliese, formerly of Bear, with his wife, Maggie, and their children at home in Wynnewood, Pa.Mr. Pugliese now works at the valuation consulting firm Marshall & Stevens.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MERGERS (87%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



710 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: One Tunnel, Two Views Of the Future

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Right now, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is digging a subway tunnel down a short piece of Second Avenue. The current estimate is that the construction will cost about $3,000 every minute of every day next year. Then the real money begins.
 Which raises the question: Is it really such a great idea to be digging subway tunnels in Manhattan? 
 Once this was a simple question. A century ago, only dirt and rocks were under the sidewalks. The subways built between 1900 and 1940 made the modern city grow, a system of human irrigation for skyscrapers and apartment buildings. Today, though, the underground is practically as crowded as the streets above. 
 Running beneath every street is an invisible, honeycombed world of cables and conduits, pipes and vaults.
 To thread new subway tunnels through this tangle requires both brilliant engineering and construction, and spectacular amounts of money. 
 The Second Avenue subway is only one of a number of megaprojects that came to life during a prosperous era that appears to be coming to an end.
 The Long Island Rail Road is tunneling under the East Side of Manhattan to add a connection with Grand Central Terminal. And the city wants to extend the No. 7 train from its current terminal in Times Square to the Far West Side.
 Only now are city and authority officials beginning serious exploration of using the surface of the city, rather than its underside, for mass transit. 
 One idea is to dedicate portions of big streets and avenues to protected bus lanes, physically separated from other traffic. Riders would pay their fares before they boarded. An experiment to do that in the Bronx has made a big cut in travel time, said Joan Byron, director of the Sustainability and Environmental Justice Initiative at the Pratt Center for Community Development.
 Such systems are called bus rapid transit, and the cost to build them is $1 million to $2 million per mile, Ms. Byron says, compared with $1 billion per mile for the Second Avenue subway.
 ''If you just took the cost overruns for one year on any of the megarail projects, that would pay for a handsome bus rapid transit network,'' she said.
 Others, including a group of private transit planners, have argued that the city and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority should examine light rail, essentially a modern version of old-fashioned streetcars. 
 To Jeffrey M. Zupan, senior transportation fellow at the Regional Plan Association, it makes no sense to drop the Second Avenue subway. While the final price is estimated at more than $16 billion, Mr. Zupan says it will be the most cost-effective rapid-transit project in the country -- not only providing a new line on the East Side, but also easing congestion on the existing Lexington Avenue trains for people in the Bronx and Brooklyn. The Second Avenue project has received federal funding precisely because it will reduce travel time for hundreds of thousands of people, Mr. Zupan said. 
 It has been on the drawing boards through the terms of eight mayors and eight governors; portions were actually dug in the early 1970s, but the city and state ran out of money. 
 ''With the checkered history -- if you stop now, you'd never start again,'' Mr. Zupan said. ''Inertia is what we had for a generation. You'd be kissing goodbye the benefits that would accrue to a half million riders a day, and you would continue to subject riders on the Lexington Avenue lines to inhumane crowding conditions.'' 
 A report from the Pratt Center says that 750,000 people in the five boroughs now have commutes longer than one hour. A bus rapid transit system, Ms. Byron argues, would be the quickest, least expensive way to make those rides shorter.
 New York's vaunted subway and rapid-transit network -- including the els -- essentially stopped growing with the completion in 1940 of the IND lines. A 1986 report from the Regional Plan Association noted that since 1940, New York has gained the ''dubious distinction of being the world's only city with a shrinking rapid transit system, even as world mileage grew over 40 percent a decade.''
 Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, said he was reluctantly coming to the view that the grand new projects could hurt the upkeep of the existing system. ''The M.T.A. just proposed cutting a fifth of their core capital program,'' Mr. Russianoff said. ''That included dropping fixing 19 stations, and hundreds of millions for emergency fans in the tunnels. At some point, maybe not yet, how vigorously can we proceed on these expansion projects if we don't have the money to keep fixing the existing system?''
 Mr. Zupan of the regional planning group said construction jobs from the megaprojects would help the city through an economic downturn. ''This is what I've been fearing will come up in the conversation because of the M.T.A.'s financial situation,'' he said. ''Now more than ever we need them.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



711 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Continue Their Slide in Asian Trading

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Alan Cowell contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
As turmoil continued in world markets hit by uncertainty over America's bailout plan, stocks in Asia fell in early trading on Tuesday, following the sharp retreat in the United States markets on Monday. Financial bookmakers forecast that the decline would carry over to European markets, which also fell Monday. 
 While the United States government's proposed $700 billion bailout package has been welcomed by financial markets world-wide, investors in Asia are skeptical that it will be enough to stave off underlying economic problems in America. 
 ''The real question for Asian markets will be if the United States slows considerably and exports slow,'' said Nikhilesh Bhattacharyya, an associate economist with Moody'sEconomy.com in Sydney. Right now, many investors in Asia still have a ''wait and see'' approach on the bailout, and are trading by ''over-reacting to the latest headlines and news,'' Mr. Bhattacharyya said. 
 Australia's benchmark S&P/ASK 200 Index fell 1.93 percent by early afternoon trading Tuesday, after gaining over 8 percent in the previous two days. Despite a 30 day ban on all short-selling, some financial stocks continued to drop sharply in Australia. Shares of Macquarie Group, the country's largest securities firm, were trading down by 4.47 percent Tuesday afternoon, and shares of National Australia Bank were down 2.51 percent. 
 By early afternoon Tuesday, Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index fell 2.68 percent, Singapore's Straits Times index was down 1.82 percent and China's CSI Index dropped 2.58 percent, after rising to a two-week high Monday on a Beijing rescue plan to salvage stock prices. India's Bombay Stock Exchange index fell 1 percent by midday, while markets in Taiwan, Korea and Vietnam were up slightly. 
 Financial stocks were not the only companies hit: Shares in Singapore Telecommunications, one of South Asia's largest communications companies, were down 1.72 percent in Singapore, while shares of airline Cathay Pacific Airways were down 1.36 percent in Hong Kong. Hong Kong was preparing for a hurricane Tuesday afternoon. 
 Despite a drop in the dollar, the Korean won continued to fall, reflecting sharp fears of an economic downturn in Korea. ''Taiwan and Korea are both highly open and export driven economies,'' and are similarly exposed to the risk of a global slowdown, said Merrill Lynch analysts in a note Tuesday. 
 The Australian and New Zealand dollar rose Tuesday, as investors headed for mining assets and gold, considered safe havens in the turmoil. 
 Markets in Japan are closed Tuesday for a national holiday. Japanese banks are emerging as a potential savior to their battered American peers, with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group taking a stake in Morgan Stanley on Monday, and Nomura Holdings buying the Asia-Pacific operations of Lehman Brothers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%)

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (80%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MACQUARIE GROUP LTD (56%); NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LTD (56%); NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (55%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (54%)

TICKER: MTU (NYSE) (80%); 8306 (TSE) (80%); MS (NYSE) (58%); MQG (ASX) (56%); NAB (ASX) (56%); NMR (NYSE) (55%); N33 (SGX) (55%); 8604 (TSE) (55%); 0293 (HKSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); TAIWAN (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



712 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; The Business of Green; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1874 words

HEADLINE: Pumping Hydrogen

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
ON a strip of Santa Monica Boulevard in Los Angeles, a futuristic experiment posing as an ordinary fuel station may be bringing the world one step closer to the hydrogen age.
 From the moment engineers started dreaming about hydrogen as an alternative to oil, they faced a nagging question: What should come first -- the fuel-cell car or the hydrogen pump? 
 Carmakers have argued that without a network of hydrogen filling stations they couldn't roll out fuel-cell vehicles from the research lab to the dealership. Energy companies, on the other hand, said that without large numbers of fuel-cell cars available at reasonable prices, they saw little point in building a costly new fueling infrastructure.
 This classic chicken-or-egg dilemma has long hobbled the development of most alternative fuels and has assured the supremacy of oil. Thanks to low prices and abundant reserves just a few years ago, energy providers and automakers simply had little incentive to end the petroleum age. But, faced with the perils of global warming and soaring prices, automakers and oil companies have begun a hasty search for alternatives and have been working together to break the hydrogen logjam. Their answer is to introduce both cars and new fuel stations, clustering them in urban centers like Los Angeles, Berlin and Tokyo. 
 ''The game now is about clustering; it's the only way to take this next step,'' said Duncan Macleod, vice president of Shell Hydrogen. 
 Shell's Santa Monica Boulevard station -- which has conventional gasoline pumps as well as an odd-looking nozzle with bright blue ''hydrogen'' labels -- is part of this strategy. So is Honda's decision to lease about 200 of its newly developed FCX Clarity cars over the next three years to selected customers in Southern California, who will be able to fill them up at the new Shell station and others. The FCX Clarity uses a fuel cell to power an electric motor; the cars are being leased for $600 a month, a fraction of what they would cost to buy.
 But the experiment underscores the tremendous path that hydrogen must travel before it can nudge petroleum off our roads and highways. Given the prohibitive cost of a fuel-cell vehicle -- they are custom-made, not mass-produced -- no automaker will be selling them to the public for at least 10 years. And many energy companies remain skeptical of the long-term prospects for hydrogen, arguing, among other things, that even with government help the infrastructure costs would be enormous. Automakers also recognize that there are other ways to wean cars from oil, like using biofuels or batteries. But hydrogen offers a plentiful and clean form of energy and cannot be ignored, experts said. And the public is interested in the technology: when Honda announced its leasing program, more than 50,000 people registered for it online.
 So carmakers are stepping up their efforts to develop hydrogen cars. Honda plans to have a model in mass production by 2018. G.M. aims to put 100 fuel-cell cars on the roads over the next few years, mostly in Southern California, as well.
 Other carmakers, including Ford, BMW, Volkswagen and Daimler, are working on prototypes. The National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, recently estimated that automakers could be selling as many as two million hydrogen-powered fuel-cell cars by 2020, which would represent only 1 percent of all vehicles on our roads. After that, the numbers could rise quickly, reaching 60 million by 2035 and 200 million by 2050.
 ''In the long term, hydrogen and fuel-cell vehicles look like a major part of the solution,'' said Larry Burns, G.M.'s vice president for research, development and strategic planning. ''The dilemma is, how do you manage the transition? We don't have a hydrogen infrastructure like we have a petroleum infrastructure.''
 More than 170,000 fuel stations now distribute gasoline around the country, and millions of miles of pipelines and thousands of tanker trucks feed into a huge system that took more than a century to develop. 
 Replacing that infrastructure entirely is unrealistic. Instead, G.M. believes that a hydrogen network can be built at a fraction of the cost by concentrating on select urban centers.
 In a study released in December, the company said that if 12,000 hydrogen stations were built in the largest 100 cities, that would put a station within two miles of 70 percent of the American population. That number of stations would be enough to fuel one million cars. 
 ''We don't think about this as a nationwide deployment on Day 1, where everything has to be covered immediately,'' said Britta Gross, G.M.'s manager for hydrogen and electrical infrastructure. An initial network of 40 hydrogen stations in Los Angeles would cost $80 million and cover the needs of that city in the early years of hydrogen deployment, Ms. Gross said. 
 The government is backing this new approach, said Steven Chalk, deputy assistant secretary for renewable energy at the Department of Energy. ''Five years ago we would have said that we need to launch hydrogen nationally but we now think that this cluster idea is the way to go,'' Mr. Chalk said. ''The way to do that is to concentrate in areas where you have critical mass.''
 Hydrogen holds the promise of turning the internal-combustion engine into a relic while helping to solve the transportation sector's carbon emissions problem. More than 95 percent of the nation's cars now rely on petroleum, and transportation is responsible for a third of carbon-dioxide emissions. 
 Hydrogen can be produced in a variety of ways, from natural gas or from electricity. Used in a fuel-cell -- an electrochemical device that produces electricity -- it emits no carbon dioxide, only water. Fuel-cell cars also possess advantages over those that rely primarily on batteries: they have greater range and take only minutes to refuel, compared with several hours to recharge batteries. 
 Governments around the world have given billions in subsidies for the development of hydrogen technology, with little to show for it. In the United States, the Energy Department has spent $1.2 billion in research and development grants for hydrogen over the past five years. Still, more work is required to increase the durability of the fuel cells and reduce their costs.
 ''Hydrogen was forever 20 years away, but now, for the first time, you see some of the milestones moving closer, not away anymore,'' said Mike McGowan, the chairman of the National Hydrogen Association, the industry's trade group. ''There is now almost a sense of urgency about the infrastructure.''
 The largest obstacle remains the size and cost of the infrastructure needed to produce and distribute the hydrogen. The nagging issue is how to replicate a model that has served the petroleum age so well, and that was developed over a century. 
 ''The transition is the key question,'' Mr. Chalk said. ''How do you shift from oil to hydrogen? I don't think you'd necessarily do it exactly the same way. The hydrogen infrastructure does not need to be rolled out just like the current gasoline infrastructure.''
 Most transportation experts say the automobile industry is inevitably going to shift toward the electrification of the car. The success of the Toyota Prius hybrid, which has both a gasoline engine and an electric motor, has stunned the industry. Now most carmakers offer hybrid models and are furiously working on the next generation, like plug-in hybrids that rely even more on electrical power. The question is where hydrogen will fit into this picture.
 ''There are three horses in the race to replace petroleum -- biofuels, electricity and hydrogen -- and at various times you see the fortunes of these various horses ebb and flow,'' said Roland Hwang, an automobile expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. 
 Ten years ago, hydrogen was in the lead, he said, but lately electric cars and biofuels have taken off because of new, longer-lasting lithium-ion batteries, and large subsidies for alternative fuels like ethanol.
 ''Hydrogen has probably fallen back,'' Mr. Hwang said. ''That's because hydrogen is the most challenging in terms of fuel production, vehicle technology and infrastructure deployment.''
 But as automakers charge ahead, they are also complaining that oil companies are dragging their feet. 
 ''The message we're sending to the energy companies is stop thinking of the chicken-and-egg problem and look at what we're doing and listen to what we're telling you, and look at the number of vehicles we're talking about in the future,'' said Stephen Ellis, Honda's sales and marketing manager for fuel-cell cars. ''The process is taking too long. The energy companies are not being as aggressive as they could be, or as they should be.''
 The cost of developing such an infrastructure may prove prohibitive without far larger government incentives. A study by the Energy Department's Oak Ridge National Laboratory found that the automobile industry would sustain billions in losses from fuel-cell cars until at least 2022. 
 The National Research Council said that the total cost of deploying a national hydrogen network could be as high as $200 billion, including $55 billion in government aid through 2023. Some experts, like Mr. Hwang, expect the cost to be more than twice that. 
 In fact, given the uncertainties about which fuels will emerge as real alternatives to oil, energy executives still appear extremely cautions about hydrogen. 
 ''They need to feel confident that these tens and hundreds of thousands of vehicles will be coming,'' said Catherine Dunwoody, executive director of the California Fuel Cell Partnership, an association of private companies and government agencies promoting hydrogen. ''Meanwhile, the automakers feel like they're running into a brick wall. There is definitely a sense of urgency on their part.'' 
 BP recently dropped its commitment to hydrogen, and Exxon Mobil is focusing its efforts on technology that allows hydrogen to be produced directly on-board fuel-cell vehicles, without the need for a new infrastructure. Shell says auto companies are setting unrealistically high goals for fuel stations given the limited numbers of fuel-cell cars.
 ''When people talked about the hydrogen economy, hydrogen was the answer to everything,'' said Mr. Macleod, of Shell. ''I don't think they had thought about all the pieces of the story. Hydrogen is one pathway. There will be many. It is part of the story.'' 
 Puneet Verma, director of Chevron's hydrogen research and development efforts, said basic issues like hydrogen storage still needed to be ironed out.
 ''There is a significant economic hurdle in hydrogen,'' he said. ''We can't provide it on a retail fueling basis to be cost-competitive with gasoline, not today.'' 
 However, G.M. and other automakers say such concerns should not deter energy providers from making the necessary investments. ''It is really a matter of collective will between policy makers, carmakers and oil companies,'' said Mr. Burns, of G.M. ''We all need to get on the same page, and on the same blueprint, and start in the same cities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FILL IT UP: A customer refuels his Honda Clarity with hydrogen at a Shell station in Los Angeles. Below, Chevrolet's Equinox fuel-cell test vehicle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) (pg.H1)
NEW FUEL: A Shell station on Santa Monica Boulevard in Los Angeles is the first in the nation to offer hydrogen refueling pumps
a sign (below) cautions customers about the dangers of the gas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CLEAN ENERGY: Hydrogen-powered cars from several automakers on a national tour to raise awareness about the fuel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.H8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



713 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; The Business of Green; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Coal, a Tough Habit to Kick

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: W 

 BODY:
ASHINGTON
 COAL, the ''dark fuel,'' may be the most visible villain of global warming, but its use is up and projected to go higher.
 ''In the short run, demand for coal is going to increase,'' said Joel Darmstadter, a senior fellow at Resources for the Future, a nonprofit foundation in Washington. ''Demand for electricity is increasing, and there are really no alternatives.'' 
 Of course, it does not have to be this way. Efficiency experts have demonstrated that factories, offices, stores and households can save money by saving electricity, but they also agree that cost-effective improvements are not being made on the scale needed to cut demand. 
 While almost everyone talks a good game about energy efficiency, more electricity is being used. New York State is typical: it has pledged to hold demand constant, but last year, kilowatt hours consumed were up about 1 percent. In some cases, the extra energy comes from power plants fueled by natural gas, but the coal plants run as many hours as they can, and more hours this year than last. 
 In fact, the demand for coal is rising faster than the supply. So is the demand for oil. 
 The Energy Department, in its annual energy outlook issued in June, predicted that overall energy production probably would be up 20 percent from 2006 to 2030, though it could increase as much as 36 percent, or even decrease by 5 percent.
 While alternative and renewable energy sources will take a larger share of the energy pie, the use of fossil fuels, including oil and coal, will still grow, as escalating sales of air-conditioners, dishwashers and everything else electric will push up total demand. 
 Carbon output will also grow, as air travel and driving increase, according to the projection by the Energy Information Administration, the department's forecasting arm.
 Some environmentalists are skeptical that the Energy Department has it straight. ''They've never been right on anything,'' said Bruce Nilles, director of the national coal campaign at the Sierra Club. More and more states are setting renewable energy mandates, and those will surely meet increasing fractions of power demand, so ''business as usual'' will surely not continue, he and others say.
 But at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, Judi Greenwald, the director of innovative solutions, described the department's estimate as ''a plausible future, if we keep going on the way we've been going on.'' 
 Many proposals have addressed climate change, but, for the time being, they remain mere proposals. If the quick, inconclusive foray by the Senate into carbon legislation this year is any clue, nothing is going to happen quickly. 
 ''I think we are headed in the wrong direction,'' said William R. Moomaw, a professor of international environmental policy at the Fletcher School at Tufts University and a lead author of part of the most recent report of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a scientific panel set up by the United Nations Environmental Program and the World Meteorological Organization. Noting the problems that Congress has sometimes had in agreeing on the annual budget, Professor Moomaw said of climate change, ''I think it's bigger than the budget; there are more oxes that will be gored.'' 
 While there is agreement that the world needs to stabilize the global greenhouse by limiting use of fossil fuels, their use continues to grow. You might call it cognitive climate dissonance.
 And this dissonance is poised to become worse, at least in the United States, because the fuel consumed in the future is expected to contain even more carbon than the current fuel supply does. Per unit of energy, natural gas has only about half as much carbon as coal, but natural gas use is projected to be flat, and a declining share of total energy, because North America's reserves are running out. Some experts predict new production from unconventional sources, but many expect the market to remain tight because of growing demand by electric utilities.
 Oil is a somewhat cleaner fuel than coal for carbon dioxide control, but it has been 30 years since the price of oil could compete with that of coal, and those days seem unlikely to return.
 So moving in the right direction in terms of carbon emissions would be hard work, because the population is rising, and so is the national income -- there are more people, and they have more to spend. Pew, for example, worked from the Energy Department's projections of economic growth of 2.5 percent a year, and annual population growth of 0.8 percent, from 2009 to 2030. To stabilize emissions in 2030 at the 2005 rate, Pew found, the United States would need to become significantly more efficient -- that is, every dollar's worth of goods and services would have to be produced with 2.5 percent less energy each year. It would need to make electricity, vehicle fuel and other forms of energy with 0.6 percent less carbon, by adding solar, wind or nuclear power. 
 And that's simply to hold steady. To reach the goals of the Lieberman-Warner bill debated, but ultimately dropped, by the Senate -- which would require a 70 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 -- the economy would have to use 4.4 percent less fuel every year per dollar's worth of goods and services and reduce the carbon content of the energy used by 2.7 percent a year between 2009 and 2030. 
 In the last few years, the economy has been using a bit less energy per unit of goods and services, but in the future, the carbon content per unit of energy is likely to rise. Professor Moomaw and other experts say existing coal plants will run more hours to meet power demands, and coal is likely to be used to fuel additional energy-using devices, including cars. 
 ''A lot of people were thinking that high prices for fossil fuels is exactly what we need because it would bring on renewables,'' he said. ''But it also brings on substitute things, like oil sands and oil shale,'' both of which can be turned into gasoline but release far more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere during manufacturing than oil does. 
 Another nonfossil alternative is nuclear power. But recent indications -- such as a proposed nuclear plant in Florida -- suggest that nuclear power will not succeed in replacing coal, any more than oil has, because of its cost. Of course, the government could try to drive down coal consumption by putting a price on carbon emissions. But that is hard to bank on. 
 At the Energy Information Administration, Daniel H. Skelly, a climate expert, said, ''Some people have argued to us that companies are going to stop building coal plants purely because they expect some sort of climate legislation to be passed.'' But it is hard to build a projection on an expectation, he said, and ''we haven't incorporated that into the projections as yet.'' 
 And people are still building. At Black & Veatch, an engineering and construction company based in Overland Park, Kan., that builds nuclear reactors, wind farms, gas-fired plants and coal-burning plants, Dean H. Oskvig, chief of the company's energy business, ticked off coal projects in the United States and abroad that are still under way.
 In South Africa, he said, his company is helping the national utility, Eskom, double its capacity by 2026. At one location, Eskom is building six coal plants of 800 megawatts each; in this country, a single 800-megawatt unit would be a major construction project. China is building even faster.
 In the United States, planned coal plants that had not broken ground by mid-2007 were mostly sidetracked, but existing plants are going strong, including some that use older technology that requires a relatively large quantity of coal per kilowatt-hour produced -- and releases a proportionately larger quantity of carbon dioxide. 
 ''When carbon is taxed or traded, it will change the financial models,'' Mr. Oskvig said. But coal is the most geographically distributed energy resource on earth, he said, adding, ''I expect that we'll return to coal in some fashion.'' 
 Over all, the desire to cut emissions may not be as strong as the desire to keep the lights on and to sell more electricity. And the low-carbon alternatives are not in place.
 Electric companies are building rooftop solar panels at an unprecedented rate, but on nowhere near the scale needed to displace coal plants, especially because the coal plants tend to produce three or four times as many kilowatt hours as solar arrays of the same capacity, untroubled by clouds or sunset. Wind power is growing much faster, but it is unevenly distributed around the nation. And, like sunshine, wind is subject to the whims of nature. 
 Someday, certainly, there will be more renewables and less coal. But, as Mr. Skelly of the Energy Information Administration put it, for at least the near term, ''It's hard to say how much of that there will be.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POWER PLAYER Coal at Luminant's Big Brown Plant near Fairfield, Tex. Demand is rising faster than supply. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.H1)
SMOKE SIGNALS: Above, Sunflower Electric Cooperative's coal-fired electric power plant in Holcomb, Kan. Left, a mine run by Westmoreland Coal northeast of Hardin, Mont. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY (CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DAVID GRUBBS/BILLINGS GAZETTE VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.H4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY DEMAND (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



714 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Alabama: Official Admits Lying

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
A former Jefferson County commissioner pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice in a federal corruption investigation of bond sales that financed the county's almost-bankrupt sewer system. The commissioner, Mary Buckelew, 62, lied about receiving $4,000 in gifts from an investment banker whose firm received millions of dollars from bond and interest-rate swap deals involving the county, United States Attorney Alice Martin said. Ms. Buckelew, a Republican who served from 1990 to 2006, admitted in a plea agreement that she knew the banker was trying to influence her. Jefferson County, with a population of 660,000, is facing bankruptcy after interest rates on $3.2 billion of debt it accumulated to build its sewer system skyrocketed to as much as 10 percent amid the credit crunch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (88%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (88%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



715 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: An Online Tool Meant to Simplify the Transit System

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
A number of public officials and the founders of Google assembled at Grand Central Terminal on Tuesday to announce the start of New York's version of Google Transit, an online feature that they said would transform the experience of navigating New York City's transit system, the nation's busiest. 
 ''It is a very complicated transit system, and it just got less complicated today with the advent of Google Maps for transit,'' Gov. David A. Paterson said, noting that the subway system opened with 9.1 miles of lines in 1904, and that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority now serves a territory of 5,000 square miles. 
 The array of public officials present reflected Google's economic might, particularly at a time when Wall Street's convulsions have left the city and state economy reeling. Not only did the governor and leaders of the transportation authority attend the Grand Central news conference, but so, too, did Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler, representing the Bloomberg administration, and officials of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and of New Jersey Transit. 
 ''It just gives me great personal pleasure to be able to help even in a tiny way this fantastic public transportation system,'' Sergey Brin, one of Google's founders, said at the news conference. The company's other founder, Larry Page, said he even hoped the tool would ''help congestion, help the economy over all.''
 Google has already presented online maps for several transit systems around the world, and several New York companies have provided similar services, like Hopstop.com, but the new Google tool has support from public officials. 
 The tool -- which encompasses the transportation authority's subways, buses and two commuter railroads, along with the PATH and New Jersey Transit commuter lines -- appears far more sophisticated than existing online trip planners like Trips123, a site that was built with public financing.
 It also seems to offer a key distinction from previous services: Users do not need to search specifically for transit information. Instead, they are shown transit routes, stations and stops even if they are merely searching for, say, a bagel store. 
 H. Dale Hemmerdinger, chairman of the transportation authority, said that Google Transit Maps would ''reflect online what is clear on the ground: the M.T.A. is critical to the region's mobility, economy and environment.'' 
 John Hanke, the founder of Google Earth, said the New York project started with a small group of employees who wanted to ''promote the use of public transit as an alternative to people driving cars.'' Google employees are allowed to spend 20 percent of their time on self-directed projects, and these employees used that time to pursue their passion for public transit, he said.
 Mr. Hanke said that Google had already introduced the tool for transit systems in cities like Austin, Portland, and Los Angeles, but that the truer test of the feature was whether it could also serve the world's largest transit systems, like those in London, Paris, Tokyo and New York. (Google Transit covers Tokyo, but not yet London or Paris.)
 Tom Sly, a Google business development manager who demonstrated the new tool using a mobile device, showed how the transit feature worked with Google's street-view tool. Google Transit plans itineraries, using schedules supplied by the transportation authority to provide estimates for how long a given subway or bus ride would take. 
 Christopher P. Boylan, the authority's vice president for external affairs, said that the authority had made its extensive data on route schedules available to Google -- but that it was available to other software developers as well. 
 ''Google has taken our raw data, so we haven't interpreted it specifically for them,'' Mr. Boylan said. ''That data is available to other map entities also.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sergey Brin, left, and Larry Page, Google's founders, drew an influential crowd at a news conference at Grand Central Terminal.
 Susan Hassell, left, and her sister Katie Hash, second from left, watch a demonstration of Google's transit tool at the terminal.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); GOVERNORS (75%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (58%); SERGEY BRIN (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



716 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; PARIS JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Tense Rivalries Threaten A Melting-Pot District

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Maia de la Baume contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The fashion is more Brooklyn than Paris, with young Muslims and blacks in low jeans, sunglasses and hoodies, often with a kaffiyeh knotted carefully around the neck, and sometimes, now, with guns. There is a large Jewish community, too, many of them Lubavitcher, with kosher butchers and delicatessens, a large religious school and synagogue, close to the Medina Hammam Center and African grill restaurants like Le Marcory.
 The 19th Arrondissement is one of the most fascinating and complicated districts of Paris -- one of the largest, youngest, poorest, most racially diverse -- and the most criminal. The size of Grenoble or Reims, with nearly 190,000 people, the district, on the northeast edge of Paris, is split into at least three territories, with at least two large mini-ghettos, or cites, run by their own gangs of youths, who spar along the borders and sometimes clash with the Jews. And it borders some of Paris's poorest suburbs.
 This has been a bad month for the 19th, with a surge in violence that has brought anxious responses from community leaders, the mayor of Paris and the police. Six young men have been wounded, another shot to death. And there are new accusations of anti-Semitism, with an attack on three young men wearing skullcaps after an exchange of insults, and the police are adding patrols. 
 Mendel Shapira, 24, who works in the Eshel Glatt Kosher butcher shop on the Rue Petit, said, ''These Arabs and blacks come here because they know Jewish people live here, and it's worse when there are things going on in Israel.''
 Nathalie Ben Simon, 45, is the aunt of Daniel, one of the three young Jews hurt this month, his nose broken in a fight along the Rue Petit. ''Three black guys bumped into them for no reason and demanded, 'Why are you looking at us this way?' '' she said. ''It's always been a neighborhood that's a little hot.''
 It is also deeply divided, with turf carefully demarcated and monitored by different gangs, some involved in petty theft and drugs. On Saturdays, during the Jewish Sabbath, youth gangs, including gangs of young Jews, migrate to the park of Buttes Chaumont and squabble over territory. Sometimes the insults and battles that begin there are finished later on the Rue Petit, said Morad Chahrine, who directs the J2P social and cultural center. 
 ''It's less about anti-Semitism than fights among gangs of youths, who create alliances of one district against another,'' Mr. Chahrine said, noting the influence of American movies on the styles and habits of the gangs. ''This idea of identity of territory starts with economic reasons. This is the youngest and poorest arrondissement in Paris, with a lot of unemployment, and that explains a lot.''
 Dominique Sopo, president of the group SOS-Racisme, which works against discrimination, said, ''We're faced with a layer cake, a logic of territorialization.''
 He noted that the segregation of the district was not diluted by the public schools, because there is only one nontechnical high school and many Jews are leaving the public schools. ''When you live only with your own kind, you build yourself in opposition to the territory next door, in opposition to those who do not have the same origin,'' he said. ''It's a caldron that gives rise to high tension, and it's in this framework that anti-Semitic attacks can be explained.''
 The deputy mayor of the district, Adji Ahoudian, in charge of youth affairs, said the decrease in ''social diversity'' was leading to ''confrontation for confrontation,'' with a troubling new element, ''the commonness of firearms of large caliber, that young people from 15 to 25 are using.'' Separate communities and schools, he said, mean that ''the kids don't know each other and that creates a logic of rivalry.''
 The atmosphere is especially delicate because of the beating in June of a young Jew, Rudy Haddad, 17, who was put into a coma by a gang of black and Arab youths. President Nicolas Sarkozy expressed shock that a boy could be attacked for wearing a skullcap, and there has been continuing debate about what Rabbi Haim Nisenbaum, of the Beth Hanna synagogue and religious school, calls ''diffuse anti-Semitism.''
 ''We have a new problem,'' he said. ''It's not anti-Semitism like before World War II. No one says, 'Kill all the Jews' or even 'We're against the Jews.' 
 ''The problem is first social and cultural,'' he said, with the resentment of poor Arabs from northern Africa and blacks from Mali and Congo who have not been integrated into the French state, aimed at better-off Jews, many also originating from northern Africa, who consider themselves integrated.
 The police investigated this month's beating of the young Jews and found no connection to anti-Semitism. Mrs. Ben Simon calls that ridiculous, but Fatma Ajimi, 22, who lives near the synagogue and was wearing a lavender head scarf, said that the police were correct -- that youths insulted one another and got into a fight. ''If it were really religious it would have started a long time ago,'' she said.
 Youssef, 33, who cuts hair in a salon on the Rue de Crimee, in the Arab sector, confirms tension between Arabs and Jews. ''All the communities are separated here,'' he said, speaking on condition that his last name not be used. ''But it's not a question of religion so much as territory.''
 Along the Rue Tanger, the Adda'wa Mosque is being rebuilt as one of the largest in Europe, with a study center, after construction was frozen for two years. A radical cell accused of sending insurgents to Iraq through Syria was broken up three years ago by the French police and was alleged to have operated from the mosque. But Mr. Chahrine of the community center argues that most local Muslim youth are apolitical. ''They don't even know where Israel is, let alone understand their own religion,'' he said. ''It's not an extreme Islam here.''
 But there is anomie and restlessness and lack of opportunity. A 22-year-old woman who grew up in the large apartment blocks of the black and Arab district said, ''It was quiet here until a few years ago, and now it grows,'' with more guns, more drugs and more gang violence. ''The police are very aggressive with us, but they solve nothing,'' she said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Even 10 years ago, her mother told her to call the fire department, not the police, in an emergency because the firefighters would at least show up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A boy prayed where a Jewish teenager was beaten by a gang of black and Arab youths in June in the 19th Arrondissement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER LABAN-MATTEI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
 A burned car sat in the district of 190,000, which is split into at least three territories, with at least two large mini-ghettos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS COEX/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); GANGS (88%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); MEAT STORES (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (70%); SLUM DWELLINGS (69%); FILM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) FRANCE (93%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



717 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food Hits Mediterranean; a Diet Succumbs

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: KASTELI, Greece 

 BODY:
Dr. Michalis Stagourakis has seen a transformation of his pediatric practice here over the past three years. The usual sniffles and stomachaches of childhood are now interspersed with far more serious conditions: diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol. A changing diet, he says, has produced an epidemic of obesity and related maladies. 
 Small towns like this one in western Crete, considered the birthplace of the famously healthful Mediterranean diet -- emphasizing olive oil, fresh produce and fish -- are now overflowing with chocolate shops, pizza places, ice cream parlors, soda machines and fast-food joints. 
 The fact is that the Mediterranean diet, which has been associated with longer life spans and lower rates of heart disease and cancer, is in retreat in its home region. Today it is more likely to be found in the upscale restaurants of London and New York than among the young generation in places like Greece, where two-thirds of children are now overweight and the health effects are mounting, health officials say. 
 ''This is a place where you'd see people who lived to 100, where people were all fit and trim,'' Dr. Stagourakis said. ''Now you see kids whose longevity is less than their parents'. That's really scaring people.'' 
 That concern has been echoed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, which said in a report this summer that the region's diet had ''decayed into a moribund state.'' 
 ''It is almost a perfect diet, but when we looked at what people were eating we noticed that much of the highly praised diet didn't exist any more,'' said the report's author, Josef Schmidhuber, a senior economist at the food organization. ''It has become just a notion.''
 Greece, Italy, Spain and Morocco have even asked Unesco to designate the diet as an ''intangible piece of cultural heritage,'' a testament to its essential value as well as its potential extinction.
 The most serious effects of its steady disappearance are on people's health and waistlines. Alarmed by the trends, the Greek government has been swooping into schools in villages like Kasteli annually for the past few years to weigh children and lecture them on nutrition. The lessons include a food pyramid focused on the Mediterranean diet. 
 It is an uphill battle, though. This spring, a majority of children who were tested at the elementary school of this sleepy port town of 3,000, also known as Kissamos, were found to have high cholesterol. ''It was the talk of the school,'' said Stella Kazazakou, 44. ''Instead of grades, the moms were comparing cholesterol levels.''
 In Greece, three-quarters of the adult population is overweight or obese, the worst rate in Europe ''by far,'' according to the United Nations. The rates of overweight 12-year-old boys rose more than 200 percent from 1982 to 2002 and have been rising even faster since. 
 Italy and Spain are not far behind, with more than 50 percent of adults overweight. That compares with about 45 percent in France and the Netherlands. 
 In the United States, 66 percent of adults older than 20 were overweight in 2004, and 31.9 percent of children 2 through 19 were overweight in 2006, although childhood statistics are compiled somewhat differently in different countries. 
 In Greece, the increase in the number of fat children has been particularly striking, parents and doctors say. 
 ''Their diet is totally different than ours was,'' said Soula Sfakianakis, 40, recalling breakfasts of goat milk, bread and honey. Her son, Vassilis, a husky 9-year-old who had a chocolate mustache from a recently conquered ice cream cone, said he preferred cornflakes in the morning and steak or macaroni and cheese for dinner.
 Dr. Antonia Trichopoulou, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Athens Medical School, said the problem had grown acute with the spread of supermarkets and, especially, convenience foods. 
 ''In the last five years it's become really bad,'' she said. ''The children are all quite heavy. The market is pushing a lot, and parents and schools seem unable to resist.'' 
 Advertising geared toward children has invaded Greece full force, stretching into the countryside. On television there are commercials for chips; at supermarkets there are stands of candy. Last year, Coca-Cola sponsored a play about healthful eating. 
 But facing both aggressive convenience food marketing and obesity for the first time, many rural residents here have little resistance to or knowledge of the dangers. 
 Dr. Trichopoulou said that some older people might have been tolerant of childhood chubbiness because Greece had for so long been a poor nation where hunger was a recurrent problem. 
 Outside one of Kasteli's several ice cream parlors, Argyro Koromylla said, ''You don't want your child complaining or feeling left out, so you give him what he wants.'' Her son Manolis, 12, was finishing a cone, a large T-shirt draped over his stocky frame.
 Dimitris Loukakis, 44, said he was so concerned about changing eating habits that he had bought a farm to grow traditional crops himself. Sitting at an outdoor cafe by the beach, he and his wife drank iced coffee while their chunky 9-year-old daughter, Maria, nibbled on spinach pie and glumly drank water. 
 ''I'm on a diet; I have to eat less,'' Maria piped up, noting that the local school had recently started to teach students about nutrition.
 ''Some diet,'' interjected her father. ''We're trying to keep her off sugar now. If we continue like this, we're going to become like Americans, and no one wants that.''
 The traditional diet, low in saturated fats and high in nutrients like flavonoids, was based on vegetables, fruit, unrefined grains, olive oil for cooking and for flavoring, and a bit of wine -- all consumed on a daily basis. 
 Fish, nuts, poultry, eggs, cheese and sweets were weekly additions. Red meat, refined sugar or flour, butter and other oils or fats were consumed rarely, if at all. 
 Research on the diet took off in the 1990s, as scientists noted that people in Mediterranean countries lived longer and had low rates of serious disease despite a penchant for patently unhealthy habits like smoking and drinking. But that protection is now seen as rapidly eroding.
 A generation ago, the typical diet in all Mediterranean countries complied with nutritional recommendations by the World Health Organization that less than 10 percent of calories come from saturated fats and that less than 300 milligrams of cholesterol be consumed per day. 
 Today, the typical diet in all of the countries exceeds those limits significantly, Dr. Schmidhuber said. In Greece, average daily cholesterol consumption has risen to 400 milligrams from 190 in 1963. Germany's is similar. In Portugal, consumption went to 460 milligrams from 155. 
 In 2002, a British study found that 31 percent to 34 percent of 12-year-olds in Greece were overweight -- a 212 percent increase since 1982 -- and ''it has gotten worse, much worse, since then,'' Dr. Stagourakis said. One-quarter of all children on Crete have cholesterol problems, he said, and seeing children with diabetes and high blood pressure is no longer uncommon. 
 Unlike in the United States, where obesity is more pronounced in adults than in children, in the Mediterranean region the rise in weight problems has been more common among the young. Parents' taste buds still tend to hew to a more traditional diet. 
 A survey by the World Health Organization last year of statistics from various countries found that among children in the first half of primary school, 35.2 percent in Spain were overweight -- the worst rate -- and 31.5 percent in Portugal. The lowest rates were in Slovakia (15.2 percent), France (18.1 percent) and Switzerland (18.3 percent). Greece was not included. 
 Being overweight, particularly being obese, is associated with a wide variety of medical problems, like diabetes and liver disease. While heavy children may not suffer immediate health effects, they are statistically far more likely to grow into obese adults than their trimmer classmates. And in adulthood the conditions can be lethal. 
 On traditional Crete, there was no need for calorie counting or food pyramids. People were poorer then, so their food was mostly homegrown, and producing it required more physical activity. 
 ''We ate what we grew and what we could make from it,'' said Eleni Klouvidaki, 46, who lives in Kalidonia, a mountain village outside Kasteli, and describes her preferred diet as ''whatever's green.'' On a recent day she prepared a meal of her staple mix of zucchini, tomatoes and other vegetables, and tossed it all in homemade olive oil. Now and again, she augments this dish with beans, or meat from her chickens or rabbits. 
 But she said that as more women worked and shops had moved in, the food culture had changed. ''We've entered an era of convenience,'' she said. ''Even in this rural village, the diet is very different than it used to be.'' 
 She, too, occasionally grabs dinner in town, and four nights a week her son, who works in a car repair shop, drives to a fast-food restaurant. ''They don't deliver here yet,'' she explained. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fast-food restaurant in Kasteli, Crete, offers pizza and burgers in addition to more traditional, and more healthful, Greek salads. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANNIS KOLESIDIS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (pg.A12) CHART: WHAT THEY USED TO EAT: The Mediterranean diet has its own food pyramid. Dr. Antonia Trichopoulou of the University of Athens used this one, created by the Greek Health Ministry, to explain the essence of the diet. (pg.A12)
 MAP: Western Crete is the home of the Mediterranean diet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); NUTRITION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHOLESTEROL (89%); OBESITY (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); OILS & FATS (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); TRENDS (77%); HYPERTENSION (77%); DIABETES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); DIETING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ICE CREAM (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GREECE (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOROCCO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



718 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: As the Leaves Change, Holiday Ads Arrive

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
BEGINNING to look a lot like Christmas? Heck, for consumers, it has been looking that way for more than a month.
 Some marketers are already running advertisements for -- and posting content on Web sites about -- merchandise, entertainment and other offerings related to the holiday season. Trees, theater tickets, holiday trips, porcelain Nativity scenes, crystal snowmen and even a New York Mets Christmas Village are being peddled in print and online ads.
 There is a simple reason for this holiday creep: with the economy in such fragile shape, sellers of holiday goods and services are seeking to gather their dollars while they may. 
 ''I do start early, and it has been very successful,'' said Leon Gamze, president and chief executive at Treeclassics.com in Barrington, Ill., which sells artificial trees, lights and other Christmas merchandise.
 How early? Advertisements for Treeclassics.com began appearing in September issues of magazines, which are published in August. One reader received the September issues of two magazines that carried ads from Mr. Gamze, Good Housekeeping and Martha Stewart Living, on Aug. 7.
 To acknowledge the state of the economy, some ads for Treeclassics.com say, ''Don't miss our large selection of budget buys for extra savings!'' 
 Although ''the bulk of my business is October, November, December,'' Mr. Gamze said, front-running the holiday alleviates some of the need to make sales closer to Christmas, when competition intensifies.
 Other marketers already starting the holiday season, include Radio City Music Hall, part of Cablevision Systems. Its first ad for the 2008 edition of the annual ''Radio City Christmas Spectacular,'' featuring the Rockettes, ran on Sept. 7 in the fall preview issue of the Arts & Leisure section of The New York Times. 
 A spokeswoman for Radio City, Mikyl Cordova, said ''the fall preview has always traditionally launched the media campaign'' to sell tickets to the show, which this year will be performed Nov. 7 to Dec. 30.
 Then, too, there are the purveyors of trinkets, bric-and-brac and collectibles like the Bradford Editions, the Hamilton Collection and Hawthorne Village.
 They are already selling, among other things, the Thomas Kinkade ''Holiday Reflections'' crystal Christmas tree, the Hope Is Born Nativity, the Ultimate Disney Holiday Village, ornaments bearing portraits of New York Yankee players and the aforementioned Mets Christmas Village, including a snow-covered Shea Stadium with Santa Claus outside.
 ''You certainly shouldn't be rushing Christmas, but it's nice to be talking about your plans ahead of time,'' said Frances Croke Page, a longtime executive at agencies like BBDO. She is starting a Web site devoted to New York during the holidays (ChristmastimeInNewYorkCity.com), aimed at residents as well as tourists.
 The Web site, developed by What Works, an agency in Long Island City, Queens, is intended as ''a place to go for planning,'' Ms. Page said, ''not a place to go for jumping the gun'' on the holiday season.
 ''I don't want to get in the way of Halloween,'' she added, laughing.
 That sentiment was echoed by Kevin McCollum, producer of ''Irving Berlin's White Christmas,'' a Broadway musical with 63 preview and regular performances from Nov. 14 to Jan. 4. The first ad for the show ran on Sept. 7 and tickets went on sale on Sunday. 
 ''You open your mailbox the day after Halloween, and all those holiday catalogs are there,'' Mr. McCollum said.
 Still, ''I'm not getting a sense it's too early for Christmas,'' he added, referring to the timing of the campaign for his show, created by SpotCo, part of the First Artist Corporation.
 The limited time the musical will be staged, its orientation toward family audiences and its Christmas theme mean ''we have to get the word out'' early, Mr. McCollum said. ''If you're buying four and six and eight tickets at a time, you have to plan it.''
 Planning is also the rationale for a mid-September start for a campaign to promote visiting New Orleans for the holiday season. The campaign, by Peter A. Mayer Advertising, carries the theme ''Christmas New Orleans style.''
 ''What we find is that people planning to travel over the holidays are already making their decisions now,'' said Sandy Shilstone, president and chief executive at the New Orleans Tourism Marketing Corporation. 
 ''And we have requests for 'Christmas New Orleans style' information all year round,'' she added, received by mail, phone and the Internet (NewOrleansOnline.com).
 The campaign includes holiday themes for entertainment and meals, along with discount ''Papa Noel'' hotel rates.
 Most major retailers wait until Nov. 1 to decorate their stores for Christmas or begin running ads with Christmas trappings. If they try to start earlier, they can draw complaints from consumers who prefer a more traditional approach to the shopping calendar.
 But holiday merchandise can already be found on the Web sites of retailers like Target and Wal-Mart.
 Mr. Gamze of Treeclassics.com said that occasionally his company would receive an e-mail message from a consumer who ''will be a little cranky'' that the company begins advertising so early, ''but it's rare.''
 ''If it wasn't working for me, I wouldn't do it,'' he added. ''I'm not that meshugeneh.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ads for Christmas-themed shows like ''Irving Berlin's White Christmas,'' which opens in November, are already running.
 The New Orleans Tourism Marketing Corporation is promoting the city for holiday getaways with discount rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); WEB SITES (77%); BUDGETS (75%); BASEBALL (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (65%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



719 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; The Business of Green; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Electricity From What Cows Leave Behind

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
Sheldon, Vt.
FOR years, the cows at Green Mountain Dairy here produced only milk and manure. But recently they have generated something else: electricity.
The farm is part of a growing alternative energy program that converts the methane gas from cow manure into electricity that is sold to the power utility's grid.
Central Vermont Public Service, which supplies electricity to 158,000 customers around the state, was among the first utilities in the country to draw electricity from cow manure on dairy farms. About 4,000 utility customers participate by agreeing to pay a premium for the electricity. 
''We realized we could help meet a customer demand for renewables, help solve a manure management problem and make these farmers more financially secure,'' said Steve Costello, a spokesman for Central Vermont Public Service.
Four Vermont dairy farms are producing electricity for the utility, and two more are expected to be online by year's end, Mr. Costello said. The utility hopes to add six more farms by 2010.
Residents and businesses that get their electricity from the program pay a premium of 4 cents a kilowatt hour above the typical rate of 12.5 cents. Most of that money goes to the farmers, who must purchase their own equipment, which can run up to $2 million per farm. Most farmers expect to make back their investment in 7 to 10 years.
The brothers who own Green Mountain Dairy, Bill and Brian Rowell, were looking to squeeze more profit from their farm, where they have 1,050 cows and have begun acquiring 600 heifers. Milk prices had dipped and they wanted another source of income.
They also thought that the huge amount of waste their cows produced could be used for something other than fertilizer. So they decided to give electricity a try, armed with about $750,000 in federal, state and utility company grants.
''We saw this as an economic and environmental management tool,'' Bill Rowell said. ''It's helped to diversify our farm,'' which was named the 2008 Vermont Dairy Farm of the Year.
The Rowells' cows live in a barn where a mechanical scraper sweeps the animals' waste into a large drain. The waste is then pumped into a huge sealed concrete tank known as a digester, which holds 21 days' worth of waste and is kept at a temperature of 101 degrees Fahrenheit. Anaerobic bacteria break down the organic matter in the waste, producing a mix of methane and other gases, known as bio-gas. The gas is burned in an engine that runs an electrical generator.
The cow waste produces 250 to 300 kilowatts of electricity daily, enough to power 300 to 350 homes, according to the utility.
''We're making a resource out of a waste stream,'' said Bill Rowell, who is running for the State Senate.
In return, the Rowells receive a payment based on the wholesale cost of power, which averages about 7 cents per kilowatt hour, plus the 4-cent premium. Mr. Rowell said they earned about $200,000 from electricity annually, and with the additional cows should receive $235,000 to $240,000 in revenue from electricity.
The Rowells are also transforming commercial waste. The farm processes about 500,000 gallons of waste and outdated ice cream from Ben & Jerry's each year and puts it in the digester. The free ice cream, which the company drops off, helps the Rowells generate more electricity and saves Ben & Jerry's the cost of disposing of it. ''We're improving our processes, and they're improving theirs,'' Mr. Rowell said.
The digester produces more than electricity. After 21 days, the waste is pumped through a separator, which siphons off the liquid into a silo and drops the solids into a barn.
The liquid manure is used as fertilizer, while the solids are used for cow bedding. The bedding saves the Rowells thousands of dollars a month on sawdust, and they sell the excess to garden stores.
Other utilities across the country are purchasing power from farms as part of their renewable energy portfolios. Some, like Central Vermont Public Service, charge their customers a premium, while others do not.
Alliant Energy, which supplies electricity to rural customers in Wisconsin, Iowa and Minnesota, draws power from four digesters and is working to add more. About 20 independent farms in Wisconsin have digesters and sell electricity to various utilities, said William A. Johnson, manager of biofuels development at the utility.
''Our economy is agriculture, and people recognize that supporting the industry is a positive,'' Mr. Johnson said. The utility charges 2 cents a kilowatt hour more for cow power.
''Rural customers, in particular, are very excited that something that is considered by some to be a liability, manure, has become, in essence, a resource,'' Mr. Johnson said.
In Ohio, Buckeye Power went online with a digester at the end of August and plans to turn waste from a chicken farm into electricity next year.
''We were interested in finding a type of green power that was, No. 1, not intermittent, like wind or solar,'' said Steve Oden, a spokesman for Buckeye, which will not charge extra for the power.
Marie Audet's family farm in Bridport, Vt., was the first in the Central Vermont system and went online in 2005. The family invested $1.3 million and expects to make that back in four years.
''We're saving money by not using sawdust, reducing original waste by recycling and generating revenue by selling electricity into the grid,'' Ms. Audet said.
And many customers here have chosen to pay more for power that is both renewable and supports local farmers.
Maggie Hatch, who owns the Newbury Village Store in Newbury, Vt., operates half of the business with cow power. The renewable power adds $200 to $400 a month to the store's electric bill, but Ms. Hatch and her husband, Gary, say it is worth it.
''It's worth it to us to spend that money to help the producers and use power that helps sustain the environment,'' Ms. Hatch said. ''When you live in a place like we do, which is a beautiful part of the country, you're really aware of the environment and want to keep it that way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COW POWER: Cows at Green Mountain Dairy Farm, one of four Vermont farms producing electricity for the power company
 and Bill Rowell (far left), one of the owners of the farm, with David Dunn of Central Vermont Public Service and an engine-generator fueled by bio-gas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENNIS CURRAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL WASTES (92%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); METHANE (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); MILK (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BIOFUELS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: GREEN MOUNTAIN POWER CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



720 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Power Authority to Be Run By Veteran of L.I. Utility

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
The New York Power Authority selected a colorful political insider and veteran power industry executive on Tuesday as its new president, ending months of speculation over who would take the reins at the authority, the country's largest publicly-owned power company.
 The new president, Richard M. Kessel, began his career as a consumer advocate and went on to work for more than a decade as chief executive and then chairman of the Long Island Power Authority. There, he earned praise for bringing down electricity prices, as well as criticism for being overly close to his political patrons. 
 Mr. Kessel, 58, will take over the power authority, known as NYPA, at a time when it, too, has faced persistent complaints over what critics describe as endemic patronage and political interference. Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo is investigating the authority over allegations that its former inspector general may have been involved in efforts to gather damaging information about the state's elected officials. 
 In a statement, NYPA's acting chairman, Michael J. Townsend, said that Mr. Kessel ''has the vision and leadership essential to advancing the power authority's mission of providing clean, economical and reliable energy.''
 The authority, which generates and sells low-cost electricity to homeowners and businesses across the state, is nominally independent of state government. But governors appoint its seven-member board and have traditionally exerted a great deal of influence over the authority's inner workings, including who occupies the top job there.
 Mr. Kessel replaces Roger B. Kelley, who was effectively forced out by Gov. David A. Paterson in June. 
 As a top official at LIPA, Mr. Kessel helped lead efforts to decommission the Shoreham nuclear power plant during the mid-1990s. He helped negotiate the authority's 1998 takeover of the hugely unpopular Long Island Lighting Company, long known for providing some of the most expensive electricity in the nation, and for a period was successful in reducing utility bills for residents there. Aides to Mr. Paterson also praised Mr. Kessel as a smart and tenacious executive with political acumen.
 But Mr. Kessel has also seen controversy, particularly after Gov. George E. Pataki appointed him to run LIPA in 1997. The authority was criticized for hiring Mr. Pataki's outside political advisers as consultants. In one instance, a poll paid for by the authority included questions about Mr. Pataki and other Republican elected officials. In 2006, Mr. Kessel was investigated by the state inspector general for accepting dual salaries at LIPA for his twin roles as chairman and president.
 ''I've always been able to work well with Mr. Kessel,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who has led investigations of the authority. ''But he's got to understand that he does not work for the governor or the power companies, but the people of the state who should be and are not benefiting from the electricity produced by the power authority.''
 In an interview, Mr. Kessel defended his record of accomplishment at LIPA, saying: ''You can't do that with a bunch of political people. You do that with highly skilled professional people.''
 But Mr. Kessel also acknowledged the authority's political problems and said that he would address them as president. 
 ''Clearly we have to make sure that the power authority itself has the integrity and the credibility it needs to carry out its missions,'' Mr. Kessel said.
 The new post represents something of a comeback for Mr. Kessel. He was forced out of the chairman's job at LIPA by Mr. Paterson's predecessor, Gov. Eliot Spitzer, shortly after Mr. Spitzer took office in 2007. When Mr. Kessel's name surfaced this summer as a contender for the NYPA job, some urged Mr. Paterson to find someone else. 
 But on Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Paterson said that whatever criticisms Mr. Kessel had faced in his previous positions, ''I wasn't running those offices.''
 ''What I'm really looking for is skill and talent,'' Mr. Paterson added. ''The issues of policy making and even anything beyond that are issues for which I'm accountable. And Mr. Kessel, along with anyone else, would be following the directions and also the decorum that we're trying to set.''
 Aides to the governor said that Mr. Kessel's candidacy was bolstered when the state inspector general ruled in July that he had not acted improperly in accepting the two salaries while at LIPA. Mr. Kessel was also broadly popular with the Legislature's Long Island members, notably Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader, who is a powerful Nassau County Republican.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard M. Kessel will run the New York Power Authority.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DUNN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (57%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



721 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: The Issue Is Payback, Not Bailout

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 So are you for the bailout or against it?
 Many people, I'm guessing, don't have an immediate answer to the question. They understand that the financial crisis is serious enough to require a big response from the government. But they also hate the idea of rewarding Wall Street for its failures and are wary of yet another assurance from the Bush administration that this step will be the one that contains the crisis.
 Imagine, then, what it's like to be in Congress this week. Most members of Congress have no expertise in the byzantine details of mortgage finance -- or even have aides on their staff with such expertise. 
 ''The problem here is none of us has that kind of advice,'' Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, who knows more about Wall Street than most of his colleagues, told me. 
 Yet in just a few days' time, members of Congress have to figure out how to improve the bare-bones $700 billion plan submitted by Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, and ultimately whether to vote for it.
 Their best shot at success depends on keeping the debate tightly focused on the questions that matter most. There are really only two: What steps are most likely to solve the immediate crisis? And how can the long-term cost to taxpayers be minimized?
 Everything else -- reducing executive pay on Wall Street, changing the bankruptcy laws, somehow slowing the descent of home prices -- is either a detail or a distraction. 
 Over the last few days, Congress has done a pretty good job of identifying the biggest weaknesses in the Paulson plan, like its vagueness. But as was obvious at Tuesday's much-watched hearing, members of Congress have also been spending a fair amount of time on sideshows. 
 Usually, it would be easy enough to dismiss these sideshows as the inevitable gear-grinding of democracy. This is an extraordinary time, though. The credit markets are nearly dysfunctional, leaving the economy at risk of falling into a downturn unlike any most of us have lived through, and the government is about to commit billions of dollars after only a week of political debate. There's no time to waste.
 The first thing to understand is that a bailout plan doesn't have to cost anywhere close to $700 billion, so long as it's designed well. The $700 billion number that you see everywhere is an estimate of how much the government would spend to buy deteriorating assets now held by banks. Eventually, the government will turn around and sell these assets, for a price almost certain to be greater than zero. So this $700 billion is very different from $700 billion spent on a war or on Medicare.
 ''Much of the discussion of the cost of the bailouts is getting it wrong,'' David Colander, an economist at Middlebury College, says. ''What matters is what price they buy the assets for and the price they sell them for. That's where the real action is.''
 Figuring out how much to pay for the assets is the first problem. The drop in house prices and rise in foreclosures have made it clear that these securities are worth considerably less than banks expected. But there is enormous uncertainty about how much less.
 Based on the underlying fundamentals (like the current foreclosure rate and the one forecast for the future), many of the securities appear to be worth something on the order of 75 percent of their original value. But thanks to the fear now gripping the market -- not necessarily an irrational fear, given that most forecasts have proven far too sunny over the last year -- very, very few of those securities are trading hands. Among those that have, the sales price has been roughly 25 percent of the value. 
 Which price is the government going to pay? As Mr. Colander puts it, that's where the action is. 
 It clearly shouldn't pay 75 cents on the dollar, or anything close to it. That would mean the Treasury Department -- which, in the end, is really you and me -- was assuming nearly all the risk. But it probably can't pay 25 cents. That might fail to fix the credit markets, because it would do relatively little to improve financial firms' balance sheets. Firms might then remain unwilling to lend money to businesses and households, which is the whole problem the bailout is meant to solve.
 The most obvious solution is to pay more than 25 cents on the dollar and then demand something in return for the premium -- namely, a stake in any firm that participates in the bailout. Congressional Democrats have been pushing for such a provision this week, and it's one of the most important things they have done.
 The government would then be accomplishing three things at once. First, it would take possession of the bad assets now causing a panic on Wall Street. Second, it would inject cash into the financial system and help shore up firms' balance sheets (which some economists think is actually a bigger problem than the bad assets). And, third, it would go a long way toward minimizing the ultimate cost to taxpayers.
 Why? The more that the government overpays for the assets, the larger the subsidy it's providing to Wall Street -- and the more it is pushing up the share prices of Wall Street firms. As Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, notes, the equity stakes allow the government to recapture some of the subsidy down the road. It's a self-correcting mechanism.
 Some details of a bailout will have to remain vague, in part so that Treasury officials have the flexibility to respond to an obviously fluid situation. But Congress can still do a lot this week to make sure the final cost is a lot closer to, say, $100 billion than $700 billion.
 Instead of a laserlike focus on the big issues, though, Congress has been devoting a good chunk of energy to secondary matters. Some of the proposals, like changing bankruptcy rules to help some homeowners avoid foreclosure, are perfectly reasonable but just won't do much to cure the credit markets. Others may not even meet that standard.
 One of the fashionable ideas of the week, supported by both Democratic leaders in Congress and John McCain, is to limit the pay of top executives at any Wall Street firm that sells assets to the government. In effect, this is an attempt to tell Wall Street how to split up a government subsidy among its various employees and shareholders.
 Personally, I couldn't care less how much of the subsidy goes to Wall Street's chief executives and how much goes to Wall Street's shareholders. I care about the size of the subsidy that we taxpayers are paying. And in a frenzied week, any time spent on talking about C.E.O. pay is time not spent on designing the toughest possible bailout package. I found it telling that the relentlessly pro-business United States Chamber of Commerce has said
 it can support executive pay restrictions. 
 The efforts to punish executives and help Main Street are based on a worthy instinct -- to address not just the crisis but also larger problems like inequality. The best way to solve those problems, though, is to make sure the government spends as little possible on an effective bailout. 
 A few hundred billion dollars saved today will leave a few hundred billion tomorrow to spend on a better health care system, a saner energy policy and a healthier economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



722 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; The Business of Green; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Solar Projects Draw New Opposition

BYLINE: By PETER MALONEY

 BODY:
WHAT'S not to like about solar power? Sunlight is clean, quiet and abundant. If enough of it were harnessed and turned into electricity, it could be the solution to the energy crisis. But surprisingly, solar power projects are running into mounting opposition -- and not from hard-nosed, coal-fired naysayers, but from environmentalists. 
 The opposition is particularly strong in Southern California. Aside from abundant sunshine and virtually cloudless skies, the California desert has altitude, so there is less atmospheric interference for the sun's rays, as well as broad swaths of level land for installing equipment, and proximity to large, electricity-hungry cities. 
 But it is also home to the Mojave ground squirrel, the desert tortoise and the burrowing owl, and to human residents who describe themselves as desert survivors and who are unhappy about the proliferation of solar projects planned for their home turf. 
 ''We're tired of everyone looking at the desert like a wasteland,'' said Donna Charpied, who lives with her husband, Larry, in Desert Center, Calif., where they have been farming jojoba, a native shrub cultivated for its oil, for 27 years. She is also the policy advocate for the Desert Communities Protection Campaign of the Center for Community Action and Environmental Justice. 
 The United States Bureau of Land Management said it had applications for solar power projects that would cover 78,490 acres in the area around the Charpieds' farm, which abuts Joshua Tree National Park. For the entire United States, the total number of applications is far greater, growing from zero less than two years ago to more than 125 projects with a combined electrical potential of 70,000 megawatts, the equivalent of the electrical capacity of about 70 large coal-fired power plants. 
 Investors, developers and speculators filed so many applications with the bureau that in May it declared a moratorium on new ones. On July 2, overwhelmed by protests, it reversed itself and ended the moratorium. 
 The land rush is being driven in large part by a California law that calls for 20 percent of the state's electricity to come from renewable resources by 2010. 
 The California Public Utilities Commission said the state was falling behind in meeting that goal. It estimated that California's electric utilities would have to build or buy 3,000 megawatts of renewable resources over the next two years to meet the 20 percent target. So the utilities are scrambling to find renewable resources, and developers are working furiously to build projects. 
 Last month, Pacific Gas and Electric, based in San Francisco, signed contracts to buy the electricity produced by projects under development in San Luis Obispo County by two companies, OptiSolar and the SunPower Corporation, which are expected to come on line between 2010 and 2013. 
 This sudden flood of solar power projects not only caught the staff of the Bureau of Land Management off guard, it also surprised some environmentalists. ''Many community groups are up in arms'' about the projects planned in the Mojave Desert and Coachella Valley regions, said D'Anne Albers, the California desert associate for Defenders of Wildlife, citing plans by OptiSolar, BrightSource Energy and FPL Energy.
 Jim Harvey, a founder of the Alliance for Responsible Energy Policy, an environmental group in Joshua Tree, said: ''Our position is that none of this is needed. We support renewable energy, and we support California's renewable energy targets, but we think it can be done through rooftop solar.'' 
 Mr. Harvey said that if Germany, which is as far north as the Canadian city of Calgary, could have a successful solar power program that relies heavily on rooftops, so could the United States. Germany's solar program works, he said, because the government offers so-called feed-in tariffs -- fixed-rate payments for electricity generated from solar panels. 
 The tariff is the equivalent of about 50 cents a kilowatt hour. The average residential retail rate in the United States is about 11 cents a kilowatt hour, according to the Department of Energy.
 Mr. Harvey said the tariff would not have to be that high in the United States. Matching wholesale rates would be sufficient to spur a rush to small solar power. ''It's all about policy,'' he said. ''Our lawmakers have sold out to the big solar lobby.'' 
 In addition to obstructing views and disrupting habitats, large solar power projects take a toll on the desert's scarce water supply, environmentalists like Mr. Harvey said. Mirrors and solar panels have to be washed, and some solar projects incorporate steam turbines, which require even more water. 
 In addition, some solar projects call for grading the land and spraying it with chemicals to inhibit dust or plant growth that can reduce the efficiency of solar panels. Others require backup generators powered by fossil fuels. 
 These environmentalists favor ''distributed generation,'' like solar panels on rooftops, and they argue that the leadership of national environmental organizations such as the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council has gone in the wrong direction. 
 Terry Frewin, the chairman of the Sierra Club's California/Nevada desert committee, wrote to the club's executive director, Carl Pope, in July, criticizing him for backing large-scale solar projects. 
 ''Remote solar arrays destroy all native resources on site, and have indirect and irreversible impacts on surrounding wildernesses,'' Mr. Frewin wrote. He urged the Sierra Club to embrace distributed generation as an alternative to the ''industrial renewable'' option.
 Carl Zichella, Western renewable projects director for the Sierra Club, said in response to the letter, ''We don't take a back seat to anyone in caring for the desert.'' But he said the group's position was unchanged. 
 At the current rate of adding 200 megawatts of rooftop solar power a year, it would take 100 years to meet the 20 percent renewable target that California must meet by 2010, Mr. Zichella said. ''What they are proposing is not a solution at all.'' 
 One of the first tests of public land use for large, privately owned solar projects is likely to be over BrightSource Energy's planned 400-megawatt solar project, which would occupy 3,400 acres on the California border near Primm, Nev. 
 The project would use an array of mirrors to concentrate the sun's rays on a boiler. Steam produced in the boiler would turn a turbine that would generate enough electricity to power 250,000 homes.
 John Woolard, the chief executive of BrightSource, cited several ways in which the company was trying to have as little impact as possible on the desert. He said the project would use ''dry cooling'' technology to condense the steam in the turbines for reuse, keeping water usage to a minimum, and that BrightSource had purposely sought out already disrupted land (it had been used for cattle grazing) for its project. 
 But in the end, the scale of BrightSource's project is driven by the efficiencies of the technology. ''You get half as much bang for your buck from rooftop solar'' as with concentrating solar technology, Mr. Woolard said, adding, ''Rooftop solar will never put a dent in California's renewable targets.'' 
 Currently available commercial photovoltaic technology converts sunlight to electricity at an efficiency rate of 12 percent to 14 percent. (The most efficient power plants can achieve efficiencies of nearly 60 percent.) 
 Absent an economic incentive, solar power just does not make sense, said Al Forte, principal and director of the clean energy solutions practice at Nexant, an energy industry consulting firm. Lucrative incentives like Germany's feed-in tariff ''tend to warp the reality of the market,'' he said.
 One of the first battles over a large solar power project was fought on the outskirts of Victorville, Calif., on the western edge of the Mojave. Inland Energy is building a ''hybrid'' project on 250 acres there for the city of Victorville that will combine solar panels with conventional technology. 
 In compliance with state law, Inland hired a firm to look for endangered species, including the Mojave ground squirrel and the desert tortoise. No squirrels were found, but three or four tortoises were found. Because no squirrels were found, Inland proposed to the California Department of Fish and Game that it buy one acre of land to offset every acre of lost habitat, said Tom Barnett, executive vice president at Inland. But the department insisted on the three-to-one ratio its rules call for, he said. 
 ''Time is more important than anything else'' in project development, Mr. Barnett said, explaining why Inland agreed to the three-to-one ratio. But he noted that it would cost $6.5 million to $10 million to buy and maintain the offsetting acreage for the tortoises.
 A family -- of human beings -- was also living on the site. Inland reached a deal to relocate them at a total cost of $250,000. 
 ''One of the biggest concerns we have,'' Mr. Barnett said, ''is that ours is just a 50-megawatt project.'' 
 The much larger projects being proposed will be that much more complicated, but Mr. Barnett, who has a master's in environmental science, is not giving up easily. He has begun work on an identical project in Palmdale, Calif., where the wildlife survey, once again, found no squirrels. He said he was prepared to fight the habitat battle again. 
 Meanwhile, on the other side off the desert, south of Joshua Tree National Park, Donna Charpied said desert residents of California and Nevada were planning some unspecified action within two months. ''The desert will not go quietly into that dark night,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NATIVE Opponents are concerned about the impact on animals like the desert tortoise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GERLACH/ANIMALS ANIMALS)
 FIELDS OF LIGHT: Plans for large solar plants in the desert -- like this one in Kramer Junction, Calif. -- have come under fire from area residents and environmentalists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FPL GROUP VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); DESERTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); POWER PLANTS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%)

COMPANY: SUNPOWER CORP (60%); PG&E CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (54%)

TICKER: SPWR (NASDAQ) (60%); PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (60%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



723 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: The Buck Stopped Then

BYLINE: By JAMES GRANT. 
James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, is the author of the forthcoming ''Mr. Market Miscalculates: The Bubble Years and Beyond.''

 BODY:
CRITICS of the administration's Wall Street bailout condemn the waste of taxpayer dollars. But the taxpayers aren't the weightiest American financial constituency, even in this election year. The dollar is the world's currency. And it is on the world's opinion of the dollar that the Treasury's plan ultimately hangs.
 It hangs by a thread, if Monday's steep drop of the greenback against the euro is any indication. We Americans, constitutionally inattentive to developments in the foreign exchange markets, should be grateful for what we have. That a piece of paper of no intrinsic value should pass for good money the world over is nothing less than a secular miracle. We pay our bills with it. And our creditors not only accept it, they also obligingly invest it in American securities, including our slightly shop-soiled mortgage-backed securities. Every year but one since 1982, this country has consumed much more than it has produced, and it has managed to discharge its debts with the money that it alone can lawfully print. 
 No other nation ever had it quite so good. Before the dollar, the pound sterling was the pre-eminent monetary brand. But when Britannia ruled the waves, the pound was backed by gold. You could exchange pound notes for gold coin, and vice versa, at the fixed statutory rate. 
 Today's dollar, in contrast, is faith-based. Since 1971, nothing has stood behind it except the world's good opinion of the United States. And now, watching the largest American financial institutions quake, and the administration fly from one emergency stopgap to the next, the world is changing its mind. 
 ''Not since the Great Depression,'' news reports keep repeating, has America's banking machinery been quite so jammed up. The comparison is hardly flattering to this generation of financiers. From 1929 to 1933, the American economy shrank by 46 percent. The wonder is that any bank, any corporate borrower, any mortgagor could have remained solvent, not that so many defaulted. There is not the faintest shadow of that kind of hardship today. Even on the question of whether the nation has entered a recession, the cyclical jury is still out. Yet Wall Street shudders. 
 The remote cause of its troubles is the paper dollar itself -- the dollar and the growth in the immense piles of debt it has facilitated. The age of paper money brought with it an increasingly uninhibited style of doing business. 
 The dollar emerged at the center of the monetary system that took its name from the 1944 convention in Bretton Woods, N.H. The American currency alone was made exchangeable into gold. The other currencies, when they got their peacetime legs back under them, were made exchangeable into the dollar. 
 All was well for a time -- indeed, for one of the most prosperous times in modern history. Under the system of fixed exchange rates and a gold-anchored dollar, world trade boomed (albeit from a low, war-ravaged base). Employment was strong and inflation dormant. The early 1960s were a kind of macroeconomic heaven on earth. 
 However, by the middle of that decade it had come to the attention of America's creditors that this country, fighting the war in Vietnam, was emitting a worryingly high volume of dollars into the world's payment channels. Foreign central banks, nervously eyeing the ratio of dollars outstanding to gold in the Treasury's vaults, began prudently exchanging greenbacks for bullion at the posted rate of $35 per ounce. In 1965, William McChesney Martin, chairman of the Federal Reserve, sought to reassure the quavering dollar holders. He lectured the House Banking Committee on the importance of maintaining the dollar's credibility ''down to the last bar of gold, if that be necessary.'' 
 Necessary, it might have been, but expedient, it was not, and the Nixon administration, on Aug. 15, 1971, decreed that the dollar would henceforth be convertible into nothing except small change. The age of the pure paper dollar was fairly launched. 
 In the absence of a golden anchor, the United States produced as many dollars as the world cared to absorb. And the world's appetite was prodigious. ''Balance of payments'' crises were now, for this country, things of the past. ''Liquidity,'' that bubbly speculative elixir, gurgled from the founts of the world's central banks. 
 It was the very lack of gold-standard inhibition that permitted the buildup of titanic dollar balances overseas. At the end of 2007, no less than $9.4 trillion in dollar-denominated securities were sitting in the vaults of foreign investors. Not a few of these trillions were the property of Asian central banks. So, although the United States has run heavy and persistent current account deficits -- $6.7 trillion in total since 1982 -- they have been ''deficits without tears,'' to quote the French economist Jacques Rueff. The dollars American debtors sent abroad America's creditors sent right back in the shape of investments in American stocks, bonds and factories. 
 Under the Bretton Woods system, worried foreign creditors would long ago have cleaned out Fort Knox. But, conveniently, the dollar is uncollateralized and unconvertible. America's overseas creditors hold it for many reasons. Some -- notably Asian central banks -- acquire dollars simply to help make their exports grow. But even the governments that scoop up dollars for no better reason than to manipulate their own currency's value presumably put some store in the integrity of American finance. 
 As never before, that trust is being put to the test. In the best of times, the Treasury and the Federal Reserve pretended as if the dollar were America's currency alone. Now, in some of the worst of times, Washington is treating its vital overseas dollar constituency as if it weren't even there. 
 Which failing financial institution will the administration pluck from the flames of crisis? Which will it let roast? Which market, or investment technique, will the regulators bless? Which -- in a capricious change of the rules -- will it condemn or outlaw? Just how shall the Treasury secretary spend the $700 billion he's begging for? Viewed from Wall Street, the administration's recent actions appear erratic enough. Seen from the perch of a foreign investor, they must look very much like ''political risk,'' a phrase we Americans usually associate with so-called emerging markets, not with our own very developed one. 
 Where all this might end, nobody can say. But it is unlikely that either the dollar, or the post-Bretton Woods system of which it is the beating heart, will emerge whole. It behooves Barack Obama and John McCain to do a little monetary planning. In the absence of faith, what stands behind a faith-based currency?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PATRICK THOMAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); RECESSION (77%); EURO (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); RELIGION (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); HISTORY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



724 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; The Business of Green; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Kept Out of Landfills And Reborn as a Bag

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Trenton
SPEND even a few minutes with Tom Szaky and he is bound to say, ''The thing about garbage is ...''
That's because TerraCycle, the company he co-founded in 2001 and has run since, is aiming to make billions by collecting used plastic bags, juice pouches, cookie wrappers and other items that cannot be recycled and fusing them into everyday items like tote bags, pencil cases and messenger bags to be sold at some of the country's biggest retailers.
Mr. Szaky, whose first product was an organic fertilizer jokingly called Worm Poop, said the opportunity to ''upcycle'' trash, or turn it into new products, was vast because most of the items Americans use are not recycled. Some of the country's largest manufacturers and retailers are rushing to form partnerships with TerraCycle because reducing waste can help bolster their image.
''The entire economy is built on waste, and no one captures it,'' said Mr. Szaky, who expects TerraCycle's sales to nearly triple to $8 million this year. ''It's like sitting in California during the Gold Rush. I'm wondering how long it will last.'' 
The rush could last many years, given how many companies are talking with Mr. Szaky, 26, a Canadian who left Princeton in his sophomore year to focus on the company. Mr. Szaky said TerraCycle collected waste and surplus products from companies including Bear Naked, the granola company; Clif Bar; Coca-Cola; Honest Tea; Kraft Foods; and Stonyfield Farm, the yogurt company. It then designs and creates goods made from these products and sells them at Home Depot, OfficeMax, Target, Walgreens, Wal-Mart and other retailers. Mr. Szaky said TerraCycle was also negotiating with General Mills, Procter & Gamble and Sara Lee, as well as Disney and Warner Brothers.
As upcycled products expand from boutiques into stores better known for cheap goods from China, consumers who had been reluctant to pay more for environmentally friendly items are flocking to TerraCycle's products, which cost about the same as mass-market alternatives.
''It used to be a niche because it cost so much to manufacture this,'' said Ryan Vero, the chief merchandising officer for OfficeMax, which started selling TerraCycle's products this spring. ''TerraCycle is not selling a specific product line, but an idea and a vision for consumers to grab hold of.''
TerraCycle is able to upcycle on a large scale because it receives overruns and misprinted and discontinued goods from Kraft and other manufacturers, who would otherwise have to pay to have them dumped. Kraft has sent TerraCycle 10 million Capri Sun juice pouches that Kraft could not use. The goods are free, but TerraCycle pays the shipping costs.
TerraCycle also rewards consumers who send unrecyclable items like juice pouches or plastic yogurt cups to the company's warehouses in Trenton. This year, about 4,000 schools, churches and other groups from 46 states have sent TerraCycle more than 300,000 Capri Sun pouches, which cannot be recycled because they are made with plastic and aluminum. In return, TerraCycle paid 2 cents per pack to a charity of each group's choice.
TerraCycle cleans the pouches, sews them together and reconfigures them into pencil cases, tote bags and other items and sends tens of thousands of them to big-box stores, where many stocks have sold out. The company reached an agreement with Kraft over the use of its trademarked products, and Kraft promotes TerraCycle's program on its juice pouches.
''We have a big role to play in reducing what ends up in landfills,'' said Jeff Chahley, Kraft's senior director for sustainability. ''We fell in love with how they get the packaging, get kids involved and reward people for doing the right things.''
Even so, some marketing experts question how long fickle consumers will find TerraCycle's products attractive. How many juice pouch pencil cases, they ask, does one child need? Others add that if there is money to be made, companies may upcycle their own products, eliminating the need to go to TerraCycle.
''I imagine there will be some imitators,'' said Andrew Winston, an environmental strategist and co-author of the book ''Green to Gold.'' ''If there is value there, companies will do it themselves. You don't want other companies to create value off the end of your product.''
Still, at a meeting last month with the brand managers for Capri Sun at Kraft's office in Tarrytown, N.Y., Mike Waas Smith, who works on the Kraft account for TerraCycle, said 57 tons of waste had avoided landfills. TerraCycle gave $50 to a reforestation project in Canada to offset the carbon emissions generated by shipping the pouches to Trenton.
Next year, Mr. Waas Smith said, the company hopes that 15,000 new collection teams will send in 250 million pouches. That would give TerraCycle more material to expand its product line, which will include Capri Sun aprons (which use 40 pouches apiece), purses (35 pouches) and wrapping paper (200 pouches). Homework folders, backpacks and messenger bags are also in the works.
''This is so much more organic than box tops,'' said Neil Leinwand, vice president of marketing in the refreshment beverages division at Kraft. Other Kraft brands have followed Capri Sun. TerraCycle is transforming Chips Ahoy packaging, Balance bar wrappers and Oreo wrappers into new products.
Retailers are asking for the products. OfficeMax sells pencil cases made from Capri Sun pouches, as well as clipboards made from computer circuit boards, waste cans made from computer parts and paper made from banana peels. OfficeMax will soon carry TerraCycle's computer bags made from vinyl used on billboards.
Home Depot sells TerraCycle's plastic plant pots made from crushed computer parts, and Toys ''R'' Us is considering carrying kites made from Oreo and Chips Ahoy wrappers. TerraCycle said it was negotiating with Fox and Disney about making messenger bags using film from movies no longer in theaters. Target sells tote bags made by TerraCycle from its own plastic bags that customers bring back to the store.
TerraCycle is growing so fast that Mr. Szaky hopes to raise $12.5 million in financing from investors before the end of the year.
Mr. Szaky dismisses concerns that the market for branded waste will fade once consumers find a new fad. Upcycling is a ''$1 trillion opportunity'' that is untapped because garbage has a stigma attached to it, he said.
While he runs a green business, he does not see himself as an environmentalist. He drives a 10-year-old Acura, not a Toyota Prius, which he says he cannot afford. He is not trying to solve Trenton's economic woes by keeping his plants there, either.
Instead, Mr. Szaky wants to help companies solve a major problem: how to keep the products they have spent billions of dollars making and marketing out of landfills, something environmentalists and capitalists both applaud.
''The 30,000-foot problem is that the way we make and use things has to change,'' said L. Hunter Lovins, president of Natural Capitalism Solutions, a nonprofit group in Eldorado Springs, Colo., that advises companies on sustainable business practices. ''You can define it as a problem, but smart companies define it as a business opportunity. That's what TerraCycle is trying to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ECO-GOODS: Products include fertilizers and tote bags.
TRASH COLLECTOR: Tom Szaky, TerraCycle's chief executive, with garbage bound for a second life. A box, left, in one of the company's warehouses in Trenton illustrates how the company reuses soda bottles for its plant food. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); WASTE REDUCTION (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (77%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); MILK (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); FERTILIZERS (70%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); GENERAL MILLS INC (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (54%); GIS (NYSE) (53%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (53%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



725 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: A Day of Mild Swings Takes a Late Dive as Anxiety Returns

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Matthew Saltmarsh and Heather Timmons contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For most of Tuesday, stocks ambled from modest rise to modest fall, avoiding the triple-point swings that have become the trademark of a market adrift in uncertainty and fear. With half an hour to go in the session, it looked as if Wall Street might enjoy a relatively quiet day, despite the political fisticuffs on Capitol Hill. 
 But investors could not keep their nerve. Stocks started to fall around 3:30 p.m. At the close, the Dow Jones industrials were down 161.52 points, falling 1.47 percent, to 10.854.17. It was the seventh consecutive day that the index has moved up or down by more than a percentage point. 
 The decline, though shallower than Monday's 372-point loss, underscored the anxiety among investors about the government's $700 billion bailout plan. Wall Street is still wondering how the plan will look and whether it can offer a panacea of sorts for the financial system's woes.
 ''The market can't decide whether it wants or doesn't want this package,'' said Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''Until the details come out, we're not going to go one way or another.''
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, and Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, spent the day embroiled in tense testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, where they asked skeptical lawmakers to move quickly on the measure. 
 The major stock indexes opened higher, at the outset of the hearing in Washington, but fell back as the intense questioning made it clear that there would be no easy resolution to the negotiations. A broad measure of the stock market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, ended down 1.6 percent, or 18.87 points, at 1,188.22. The Nasdaq composite index fell 25.65 points, or 1.18 percent, at 2,153.33. 
 The bailout proposal has drawn sharp criticism from some lawmakers for the broad authority that it grants to the Treasury, and Democratic leaders have called for the plan to include more protections for middle-class homeowners and some limits on executive compensation. The Bush administration has countered that any debate over the plan's details would delay its passage and further threaten fragile financial markets.
 Despite the broader declines, financial stocks ended mixed, with shares of two closely watched firms, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, each gaining about 3.5 percent. Bank of America, Citigroup and Merrill Lynch all declined. The Dow has lost 534 points this week. 
 Oil prices, which jumped above $120 a barrel on Monday after the biggest-ever single-day gain, fell back to $106.61 as the technical factors that drove those gains fell away. 
 The dollar rose against the euro, recovering slightly from a 2.3 percent decline on Monday. 
 Investors remained wary about lending, a critical gauge of fear in the markets. Borrowing rates among banks rose, and the yields on short-term Treasury bills fell again, a sign that investors were willing to accept a smaller return in return for a safe bet. 
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bill rose 9/32, to 101 20/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.80 percent, down from 3.84 percent late Monday.
 The price of gold, a traditional hedge, slipped $17.80 to settle at $891.20 an ounce, after a big gain on Monday. 
 Stocks were also lower worldwide as investors in Europe and Asia expressed skepticism that the bailout package would stave off a protracted recession in America and Europe. 
 In London, the FTSE-100 closed down 1.9 percent. The CAC-40 lost 2 percent in Paris and the German DAX was off 0.6 percent in Frankfurt.
 ''We're looking at a commitment to avoid the breakdown of the financial system but we're not going to avoid a recession,'' said Philip Isherwood, a strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort. ''The difference this time from the early 1990s and 2000s is the likelihood of a coincidental recession -- corporations and households in all regions might suffer this time.'' 
 Mr. Isherwood said traders remained nervous about what sort of valuations the American authorities would put on distressed assets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Investors' skepticism over the government's Wall Street bailout plan hurt stocks late in the day.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); CURRENCIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US DOLLAR (73%); BAILOUT BONUSES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (65%); EURO (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



726 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Negative Thinking

BYLINE: By BARBARA EHRENREICH. 
Barbara Ehrenreich is the author, most recently, of ''This Land Is Their Land: Reports From a Divided Nation.''

 BODY:
GREED -- and its crafty sibling, speculation -- are the designated culprits for the financial crisis. But another, much admired, habit of mind should get its share of the blame: the delusional optimism of mainstream, all-American, positive thinking. 
 As promoted by Oprah Winfrey, scores of megachurch pastors and an endless flow of self-help best sellers, the idea is to firmly believe that you will get what you want, not only because it will make you feel better to do so, but because ''visualizing'' something -- ardently and with concentration -- actually makes it happen. You will be able to pay that adjustable-rate mortgage or, at the other end of the transaction, turn thousands of bad mortgages into giga-profits if only you believe that you can. 
 Positive thinking is endemic to American culture -- from weight loss programs to cancer support groups -- and in the last two decades it has put down deep roots in the corporate world as well. Everyone knows that you won't get a job paying more than $15 an hour unless you're a ''positive person,'' and no one becomes a chief executive by issuing warnings of possible disaster. 
 The tomes in airport bookstores' business sections warn against ''negativity'' and advise the reader to be at all times upbeat, optimistic, brimming with confidence. It's a message companies relentlessly reinforced -- treating their white-collar employees to manic motivational speakers and revival-like motivational events, while sending the top guys off to exotic locales to get pumped by the likes of Tony Robbins and other success gurus. Those who failed to get with the program would be subjected to personal ''coaching'' or shown the door.
 The once-sober finance industry was not immune. On their Web sites, motivational speakers proudly list companies like Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch among their clients. What's more, for those at the very top of the corporate hierarchy, all this positive thinking must not have seemed delusional at all. With the rise in executive compensation, bosses could have almost anything they wanted, just by expressing the desire. No one was psychologically prepared for hard times when they hit, because, according to the tenets of positive thinking, even to think of trouble is to bring it on.
 Americans did not start out as deluded optimists. The original ethos, at least of white Protestant settlers and their descendants, was a grim Calvinism that offered wealth only through hard work and savings, and even then made no promises at all. You might work hard and still fail; you certainly wouldn't get anywhere by adjusting your attitude or dreamily ''visualizing'' success. 
 Calvinists thought ''negatively,'' as we would say today, carrying a weight of guilt and foreboding that sometimes broke their spirits. It was in response to this harsh attitude that positive thinking arose -- among mystics, lay healers and transcendentalists -- in the 19th century, with its crowd-pleasing message that God, or the universe, is really on your side, that you can actually have whatever you want, if the wanting is focused enough.
 When it comes to how we think, ''negative'' is not the only alternative to ''positive.'' As the case histories of depressives show, consistent pessimism can be just as baseless and deluded as its opposite. The alternative to both is realism -- seeing the risks, having the courage to bear bad news and being prepared for famine as well as plenty. We ought to give it a try. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BOOKSTORES (71%); DIETING (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (57%); ANTHONY ROBBINS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



727 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: With Change at Top, South Africa Proves Easily Rattled

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK; Barry Bearak reported from Johannesburg, and Alan Cowell from Paris.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
Panic surged through South Africa's financial markets early Tuesday when the president's office, still controlled by the departing Thabo Mbeki, announced that 14 of the government's top officials had resigned, including Trevor Manuel, the powerful finance minister regarded internationally as the anchor of the nation's economy. 
 But the sense of alarm soon subsided -- and the markets largely recovered -- when Mr. Manuel's spokeswoman, Thoraya Pandy, issued a statement that the resignation had simply been a courtesy as the presidency changed hands and that ''he was willing to serve the new administration in any capacity.'' 
 However short the fright, the frenzied sell-off indicates just how jittery this country has become as the Mbeki era ends and the era of Jacob Zuma, his erstwhile ally and deputy, begins.
 On Tuesday, Parliament voted 299 to 10 to accept the resignation of Mr. Mbeki, who was forced from office over the weekend by his own party, the African National Congress, which Mr. Zuma has controlled since December. 
 This is the party's current plan: On Thursday, the job of South Africa's interim president will go to the A.N.C.'s second in command, Kgalema Motlanthe, a left-leaning intellectual considered by the political opposition to be one of the more acceptable figures in the Zuma camp.
 Then, after parliamentary elections next year, Mr. Zuma himself will take over. His party controls more than two-thirds of Parliament and is likely to retain a similar majority in next year's balloting.
 With the A.N.C. so dominant, these past few days have provided a lesson in just how thin the line is between the party and the government. South African democracy asserts itself within the party, and then the party, like a behemoth, imposes its will.
 On Tuesday, here at A.N.C. headquarters, the secretary general, Gwede Mantashe, called a hurried news conference to shrug off reports that the government was flying apart, with cabinet members quitting out of loyalty to Mr. Mbeki. ''We think things are under control,'' Mr. Mantashe said confidently.
 He dispensed the crucial sedative: ''We will not be reappointing Trevor as the minister of finance. Trevor is the minister of finance.''
 The secretary general said that only 6 of the 14 who had submitted resignations were unwilling to remain in the government: Deputy President Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Minister of Defense Mosiuoa Lekota, Minister in the Presidency Essop Pahad, Minister of Intelligence Ronnie Kasrils, Minister of Public Enterprises Alec Erwin and Minister of Provincial and Local Government Sydney Mufamadi.
 The other eight have agreed to stay on, Mr. Mantashe said, including Mr. Manuel, Minister of Public Works Thoko Didiza and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Aziz Pahad.
 Mr. Manuel, who is traveling in the United States, said he was surprised that his resignation, which he considered pro forma, had set off the frenzy. As finance minister since 1996, he has presided over tremendous economic growth, though unemployment and the yawning gap between rich and poor remain staggering problems. 
 The future service of the cabinet's most polarizing member, Minister of Health Manto Tshabalala-Msimang, is yet undetermined. She is well known for her espousal of beetroot, garlic and lemon as a treatment for AIDS.
 The nation's opposition parties, numerically feckless in Parliament, dismissed the A.N.C.'s claims of smooth sailing ahead.
 The sudden dispatch of Mr. Mbeki shows that the governing party is willing to ''risk our country's stability in order to wreak revenge on the president,'' and this ''speaks volumes to its lack of commitment to stable government,'' said Helen Zille, leader of the Democratic Alliance.
 The tripwire for Mr. Mbeki's dismissal came on Sept. 12, when a judge not only tossed out corruption charges against Mr. Zuma on procedural grounds, but also chastised the Mbeki government for what he implied was political meddling in the case.
 In his waning hours as president, Mr. Mbeki has contested that ruling in South Africa's highest court, calling the judge's findings about him ''vexatious, scandalous and prejudicial.''
 His presidency gone, he appears to be trying to recover his reputation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gwede Mantashe, secretary general of the African National COngress, spoke to reporters in Johannesburg on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON HRUSA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIGNATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (82%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (90%); JACOB ZUMA (79%); KGALEMA MOTLANTHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%) SOUTH AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



728 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2271 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 24, 2008

 BODY:
International
NEWS OF RESIGNATIONS SENDS PANIC
Through South African Markets
In another sign of how jittery South Africa has become as the Thabo Mbeki era ends and the era of Jacob Zuma begins, the news that 14 top government officials had resigned, including the powerful finance minister, caused panic in the country's financial markets. But the alarm died down when an official said the finance minister's resignation was a courtesy as the presidency changed hands. PAGE A10
RUNNING FOR HIS OWN JOB
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain delivered an uncharacteristically personal speech to the annual conference of the Labor Party, in which he aimed to present himself as capable of leading the country through turbulent times. It had the sound and feel of a campaign speech, and in a sense it was: reeling from plummeting approval ratings, the prime minister is in effect running for his own job. PAGE A12 
A TENSE MELTING POT IN PARIS
The 19th Arrondissement is one of Paris's largest, youngest, poorest and most racially diverse districts. It is also deeply divided, with turf carefully demarcated and monitored by different street gangs, some involved in petty theft and drugs. A recent surge in violence has brought anxious responses from community leaders, the mayor of and the police. PAGE A11
RUSSIA WILL NOT MEET WITH U.S.
Russia said that it would not participate in a meeting with the United States to discuss Iran's nuclear program, a sign of how Russia's war with Georgia has spoiled relations regarding other security issues. ''We would very much like Washington, in the end, to make up its mind what kind of relations they want with Moscow,'' a spokesman for Russia's Foreign Ministry said. PAGE A12
MYANMAR FREES 9,000 PRISONERS
Myanmar's military government said it freed 9,002 prisoners, including the country's longest-serving political prisoner, Win Tin, and four people elected to Parliament in the landslide victory of opposition parties in 1990, an election result that the junta has never recognized. The vast majority of those released Tuesday appear to have been convicted of crimes not related to political activity, according to a group that monitors the country. PAGE A8
TERRORISM AT ISSUE IN INDIA
Four bomb attacks in India in four months have moved the issue of terrorism front and center in the campaign for the national election early next year. The main opposition party has called the administration ''soft'' on radical Islamist organizations. The government is scrambling to defend its record, even as the prime minister acknowledges flaws in gathering intelligence on terrorist networks. PAGE A6
National
A CALL FOR GREATER ENGAGEMENT
With the Muslim World
A group of American leaders is set to release a report calling for an overhaul of United States strategy in the Muslim world in an effort to reverse the spread of terrorism and extremism. The report, ''Changing Course: A New Direction for U.S. Relations with the Muslim World,'' calls for greater diplomatic and economic engagement and calls on the next president to renounce the use of torture and make negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians a priority of his administration. PAGE A23
DEBATES AS A SIGN OF RACIAL PROGRESS
The lasting image of the University of Mississippi for many remains the 1962 riots, in which two died while protesting the enrollment of the university's first black student, James Meredith. On Friday, the school plays host to the first presidential debate, and the university's president sees it as an opportunity to show the country that Ole Miss has changed. PAGE A14
FINESSING AND FUND-RAISING
Hassan Nemazee, a major contributor to Democratic campaigns, had the tricky task of persuading big-money donors to participate in a fund-raiser for Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign at his home. Some of his wealthy associates have already reached the legal limit of donations. Others had been hit hard by the financial crisis. And others were ardent supporters of Hillary Clinton and so would never entertain the notion. PAGE A19
AGENCY RECONSIDERS WOLVES' STATUS
After previously removing the gray wolf from the endangered species list in March, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service has changed its course and is asking a federal judge to overturn that decision. Environmentalists were pleased by the agency's action. ''It clearly reflects the fact that there were problems with the plan,'' said Louisa Wilcox, of the Natural Resources Defense Council. PAGE A14
A California Budget, 85 Days Late A17
Obituaries
DR. ROBERT KATZMAN, 82
Before his influential editorial in 1976 in the journal Archives of Neurology, doctors and researchers considered Alzheimer's disease a relatively rare form of senile dementia. But he redefined the way Alzheimer's was viewed, and his outspoken advocacy helped federal financing for Alzheimer's research increase to about $300 million in 1996 from about $5 million in 1980. PAGE B6
BUSINESS
SOLAR PANELS ARE VANISHING,
Only to Reappear on Internet
Solar power boasts a growing number of fans. And some of them, it turns out, are thieves. Police departments in California are seeing a rash of burglaries of solar panels from private homes. Investigators believe many of the panels are then sold to unwitting homeowners, sometimes via the Internet. PAGE C1
BREAKING OUT OF THE DATA CENTER
Cisco Systems, which produces the switches and routers that make up the plumbing of the Internet, is now selling e-mail software, video conferencing systems, cable TV boxes and even furniture in an effort to get its products in front of ordinary office workers. ''Cisco is kind of like the Madonna of networking,'' said one analyst. ''It is continuously trying to reinvent itself.'' PAGE C6
A RIVAL FOR THE IPHONE
Google and T-Mobile unveiled their answer to the iPhone, pulling the wraps off a slick mobile device that combines a touch screen and a keyboard and is aimed at putting the Internet in the pockets of millions of cellphone users. The T-Mobile G1, which will be available in the United States on Oct. 22, is the first mobile phone to be powered by Google's Android operating system. PAGE C4
STADIUM TO REVITALIZE RENO
A 10,000-seat minor-league baseball stadium is to start rising next month in Reno, Nev., as the first part of a $231 million sports and entertainment district that is expected to transform the city's abandoned railyards and bring new commercial life to its faded downtown. The ballpark will be the home of the Triple-A baseball franchise formerly known as the Tucson Sidewinders, renamed the Reno Aces. PAGE C9
Chrysler Plans Electric Car by 2010 C4
Metro
MAYOR ORDERS CITY AGENCIES
To Cut Spending
With Wall Street in turmoil and New York City's economy fragile, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ordered city agencies to cut spending by about $500 million this year and $1 billion next year. The cuts are to be made across the board, and will affect agencies including the Police Department to the city's school system. PAGE B1
MAN LINKED TO TALIBAN CONVICTED
A federal jury in Manhattan found Haji Bashir Noorzai, an Afghan tribal leader, guilty of participating in an international narcotics trafficking conspiracy that sent millions of dollars' worth of heroin around the world, including into the United States. The case drew widespread attention because of his ties to Mullah Mohammad Omar, the fugitive Taliban leader. PAGE B4
Sports
WHO'S ON FIRST?
Me? Oh, O.K.
On any given day, Mark DeRosa has no idea where he will be playing for the playoff-bound Chicago Cubs. First base? Right field? Third base? DeRosa, a natural shortstop, plays down the mental preparation his nomadic existence requires; he has relied as much on survival instincts as athletic ones. ''I try to make it like Little League -- grab a glove and go play,'' he said. PAGE D1
A CLOSING NIGHT'S OBVIOUS ABSENCE
The Yankees final regular-season game at Yankee Stadium boasted stirring speeches and some curtain calls from Yankee greats of the past. One Yankee notable who was conspicuously absent was Roger Clemens, he of the seven Cy Young Awards and the steroid allegations. He was invisible, even as other players who admitted to using drugs basked in the glow of closing night. ''I call it hypocrisy,'' William Rhoden writes. ''The Yankees, I'm sure, call it good taste.'' PAGE D2
Arts
WAGING A LONG FIGHT
Against Literary Puritanism
Barney Rosset's company, Grove Press, became famous in the 1960s for publishing books nobody else would touch and fighting groundbreaking legal battles to print uncensored versions of ''Lady Chatterley's Lover'' and Henry Miller's ''Tropic of Cancer.'' He is set to receive a lifetime achievement award from the National Book Foundation in November, and is the subject of ''Obscene,'' a documentary set to open Friday at Cinema Village. PAGE E1
OF COMEDY AND SIXTH-GRADE MATH
When Greg Daniels was developing NBC's ''The Office,'' the first person he cast was B. J. Novak, a stand-up comedian fresh out of Harvard. In Mr. Daniels's initial pitch to Mr. Novak, he drew a Venn diagram: In one circle was innovative comedy, in the other was the stuff people actually laughed at. ''All I'm interested in is what's in the middle,'' Mr. Daniels said. On this they agreed. What followed for Mr. Novak, one of the show's lead actors, writers and executive producers, was a lot of work. PAGE E1
A LONG WAY FROM THE SOUTH BRONX
The breaking (often referred to, incorrectly, as break dancing) in ''Break Out,'' a Korean dance-comedy show at the Union Square Theater, is often so good it distracts the audience from one cast member's unfortunate mullet, writes Claudia La Rocco. Its plot -- about a prison break and a magical book that falls from outer space and transfers to all who touch it the gift of breaking and beat boxing -- is another matter. PAGE E2
When Daddy Is Also Uncle E4
Dining
GENEVER, THE ORIGINAL GIN,
Is Making a Comeback
Genever is gin's great-granddaddy. Tack several more ''greats'' onto that and you'll have an idea of the age, but it was eventually supplanted by the less sweet and stronger English version. But genever is making a comeback. Some brands are already on the market, and Lucas Bols, a Dutch company far older than genever itself, is due to start distributing the liquor again in the States. Page F8
WASTING NOT LEADS TO FINE DINING
When Hurricane Ike tore through Houston, it left the city devastated, and a third of it is still without power. Better eat that chunk of Kobe beef in the icebox before it spoils. Neighbors pooled resources and a result ended up being, for some, the best meals they'd ever had, with backyard grills, good conversation, fine ingredients and empty refrigerators across the city. Page F3
GREASY, YES, BUT THE SPOON IS SILVER
Sometimes the pursuit of food is one of the epicure. Other times it's the late-night drunken stumble that can lead to the consumption of pancakes at 2 a.m. At Delicatessen, you get all the benefits of a diner -- the hours, the greasy food that goes down so well on top of that last shot of whiskey -- but without the fly-specked menus and grease-spattered booths. Page F6
Business of Green
A PUSH FOR GREEN ENERGY
That Rankles Environmentalists
Solar power is clean, quiet and abundant, and could be a major player in solving the energy crisis. But environmentalists worry that the expanding swaths of land used for large solar plants are likely to encroach upon the habitats of the desert tortoise, the Mojave ground squirrel and the burrowing owl -- not to mention the desert's human residents. PAGE H2
CAUTIOUSLY EYEING NUCLEAR ENERGY
Rising energy prices and demand for electricity would seem to be setting the stage for a renaissance of nuclear power. But even boosters of nuclear power do not see it as a short-term solution, citing its cost, the long process of constructing a plant, fears about safety and questions about how to get rid of the waste. PAGE H5
CONVERTING MANURE INTO POWER
Vermont is home to a growing energy program that converts cow manure into methane gas. ''We realized we could help meet a customer demand for renewables, help solve a manure management problem and make these farmers more financially secure,'' said Steve Costello, a spokesman for Central Vermont Public Service. PAGE H10
A High-Tech Home Energy Audit H9
Editorial
A WEAK CASE FOR THE BAILOUT
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke gave no ground in defense of the $700 billion proposal to bail out the financial system. They also gave no reason to think that their proposal would protect taxpayers from hundreds of billions of dollars in losses. Page A26
FAILING THE WORLD'S POOR
At the turn of the millennium, world leaders committed to cutting extreme global poverty in half and achieving deep reductions in malnutrition and child mortality rates. That was then. Page A26
LONG LIVE THE GRAY WOLF
The federal Fish and Wildlife Service has rescinded an earlier decision to remove the gray wolf in the Northern Rockies from the endangered species list. The wolves need the protection, so this is wonderful news. Page A26
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
What would President Bush say if he were to write a letter to the leaders of Iraq to say that, considering the financial crisis in the United States, the Iraqis will not be able to rely on a safety net paid for with American tax dollars for much longer? Page A27
THE BUCK STOPPED THEN
Since 1971, the American dollar has stood strong on nothing but the world's faith in its value. Now, as the White House and Congress put together a bailout for Wall Street, that faith is being put to the test, an Op-Ed contributor, James Grant, writes. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2, A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); GANGS (66%); LARCENY & THEFT (66%); COUNTERTERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BOMBINGS (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (62%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (73%); THABO MBEKI (73%); GORDON BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (92%); FRANCE (92%); INDIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



729 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Jil Sander Clears the Runway

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
Milan
 Designers like Miuccia Prada have taught women a lot about fashion and beauty, but more and more they seem to be teaching us how to be voyeurs rather than participants. They make interesting clothes that are essentially for photographs -- for magazines, the red carpet or MySpace pages. You can go into a dressing room, take a picture of yourself in a new Prada and download it for your friends to see. Essentially you have made the same transaction as the celebrity in her borrowed dress.
 ''There's no reason to own anything,'' as Karl Templer, a stylist and the creative director of Interview, said the other day. 
 This is hardly what store chiefs want to hear as the economy worsens. But the opening days of the Italian spring collections reveal a divide between those designers largely seeking approval from their peers -- the stylists, hairdressers, image-makers -- and those responding to an individual sensibility that relates to women's lives.
 The power now rests with the latter group, led by Raf Simons at Jil Sander, though it may be hard to see.
 Ms. Prada's show Tuesday night was not uninteresting, though one felt pity for the models, who struggled and in some cases collapsed in their ridiculously high platforms. At least two went down, with one receiving an encouraging burst of applause, and I rather thought -- or maybe hoped -- that Rem Koolhaas, the architect, might spring forward and perform a fireman's lift on a girl whose ankles gave out.
 The drift of the show seemed to be a papery summer frock, American dishabille, a poverina Blanche DuBois. The music sounded to me like Memphis -- Elvis long before he reached Vegas. In that sense there was something naive about the crinkled black suit jackets with matching straight skirts rolled at the waist, the bra tops and a loose chemise with a panel of a faded floral print. The presentation recalled elements of Marc Jacobs's spring show, without its depth. Faded print bloomer shorts with a matching apronlike skirt and a knit top looked very fresh.
 But an awkwardness pervaded the show. Ms. Prada couldn't get her arms around this soulful, sultry woman; she was just a paper abstraction. There was no real taste, no mastery of an idea or a feeling, and probably no real place for these clothes except on the runway or in a picture. This would have been a good time for Ms. Prada to reboot.
 The new designers at Gianfranco Ferre -- Roberto Rimondi and Tommaso Aquilano -- did a fine job updating the style of the house. They identified the qualities that represent Ferre, like sharp tailoring and the extravagant blouse. One of the most striking dresses was a severe evening gown in white silk with sculptural sleeves. And some of the day dresses, in slim white silk with a gold-buckle belt or cut almost like an apron with gather in back, were flattering. 
 But Mr. Rimondi and Mr. Aquilano, maybe out of pure enthusiasm, also overworked many of the clothes, so that things like silhouette and proportion and wearability were sacrificed to pure effects like plasticized embroidery or an extreme neckline. All those kinds of gestures just serve to date the clothes.
 Ah, a leather sundress -- just the thing for summer! Tomas Maier of Bottega Veneta is always on his own trip. Aside from the leather pieces in colors like copper and saffron, his straightforward collection Tuesday included some great looks in crinkled stripes and delicate prints. Skirts bunched at the waist didn't work -- not for his customers -- but the easy dress shapes and the new wrinkled textures looked fresh, somehow.
 A number of designers focused on what they do best. How banal, you say. But no: Angela Missoni had a strong collection of bold, abstract prints, dresses based on kimonos, and some cool sleeveless tunics in knits or sheer fabrics belted over minis. And Christopher Bailey at Burberry seemed to return to the Mr. Bailey of his London girl years. In place of the heavy Princess Margaret Mod frocks were easy coats in faded checks over sweet dresses in lavender and green, washed cardigans, lean linen pants and adorable scarecrow hats in burlap. Hold that thought, Mr. Bailey.
 Mr. Simons's collection for Jil Sander was incredibly gratifying; devouring, too. It made everything else look old. He might have risked something using a Man Ray photograph as a backdrop, since it signifies modernity. What if his collection was a pale imitation, another fashion game? 
 It was not. Mr. Simons used panels of draped fringe against dark wool crepe, so that it seemed less an adornment than a form of transparency, a play of light. The silhouette was always super lean, yet easy to wear. A fringe-paneled black dress appeared with leggings and sharp black suede platforms. That was the dominant idea. But there were lightweight wool jackets with deep overlapping panels, and some of the trim jackets (shown with shorts) had the feminine surprise of a draped back. 
 Everything was exceedingly well done: balanced, desirable, new. And the clothes were connected to the modernity of Mr. Simons's men's show in July. Like art or poetry, clothes can inform your understanding of things, change your eye. But the method can't be faked. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOTTEGA VENETA: A cropped pants suit in a striped crinkle cotton.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO PELLASCHIAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
MISSONI: An abstract-print silk dress with kimono sleeves.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
GIANFRANCO
FERRe A silk sheath with jeweled patch pockets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO PELLASCHIAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
BURBERRY: A washed leather coat over a silk crepe dress. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALBERTO PELLASCHIAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PRADA: A cropped sweater with a romper and half skirt in faded print, top. Above, a shift with a black panel.
JIL SANDER: From left, a long wool crepe dress with cutouts
a wool-viscose fringe dress and a scoop-neck tunic
 a wool jacket and shorts. Inset, a spear earring by Damiani. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (75%)

COMPANY: PRADA SPA (92%); JIL SANDER AG (84%)

TICKER: 1913 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315280 OTHER CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (92%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (84%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (84%)

PERSON: MIUCCIA PRADA (90%); MARC JACOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (73%) TENNESSEE, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



730 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Faced With Financial Upset and an Election, Lawmakers Lash Out

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When it comes to the Bush administration's $700 billion Wall Street rescue, there is no deficit in terms of Congressional derision.
 Take the alcohol-related argument, offered Tuesday by Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, as he reminded his colleagues that President Bush had recently described Wall Street as suffering from a hangover. ''Mr. President, you gave them the keys to the liquor cabinet, by failing to enforce our laws,'' he said. ''And now you're really demanding that Americans, who didn't get invited to the party, must pay for everything destroyed in the drunken brawl.''
 Or the patriotic approach, courtesy of Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky. ''It is financial socialism, and it's un-American,'' he said, attacking the bailout plan before the administration financial heavyweights gathered to press their case to the Senate banking committee. 
 Then there is the Old Testament diatribe. ''Just because God created the world in seven days doesn't mean we have to pass this bill in seven days,'' said Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, as he left a closed-door party meeting where Vice President Dick Cheney tried to bring House Republicans into line.
 As the administration stepped up the hard sell on its initiative, House Republicans emerged as a particular focus in the push for the bailout, with the conservative members of the rank and file expressing alarm at what they saw as a betrayal of free market principles. Even a visit from Mr. Cheney, typically a persuasive presence in such circles, did not seem to win many converts despite his being joined by a bevy of top White House officials.
 ''They believe socialism works in a crisis, and I am not prepared to say that,'' Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, said after the session.
 The clear resistance from the Republican side was being noted by Democrats, who as the majority could conceivably muscle the plan through on their own. But they are reluctant to bail out both Wall Street and the Bush administration without significant Republican involvement.
 ''I caution the president that we cannot pass this package without his party's support,'' Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the Democratic whip, warned Tuesday, expressing a sentiment he shared with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader.
 ''We have a Republican proposal they've given us,'' Mr. Reid said, ''and we now need some Republican votes to help us with this.'' 
 But the distress over the bailout and its timing was hardly unique to Republicans as lawmakers in both parties seethed. Here they were, six weeks to the day before already angry voters head to the polls, being told they had the choice to write a $700 billion check or risk dragging the economy down into bread-line, soup-kitchen territory. 
 At the same time, the lawmakers were under siege from angry constituents who had kept current with their own mortgage payments and now wondered why they were suddenly being stuck with the tab for a crisis set off by foreclosures.
 ''Like my colleagues, my phones have been ringing off the hook,'' Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, told the two architects of the bailout -- Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke -- at the banking committee session. ''The sentiment from Ohioans about this proposal is universally negative. I count myself among the Ohioans who are angry.'' 
 Even backers of the bailout were hardly enthusiastic. ''Nobody wants to do this; nobody wants to be involved in this,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. ''But I am going to argue that if we do nothing, we are jeopardizing our economy, jobs, people's retirement security. Congress has to act and we have to act quickly.'' 
 Given the circumstances and dire warnings of economic doom, the expectation remained that enough lawmakers would grit their teeth, hold their noses, screw up their courage and back some variation of the administration plan, a proposal Mr. Cheney privately told Republicans was a response to the worst economic situation he had seen. 
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader, said he expected that Congress would do the responsible thing and do it soon -- though just how soon remained unclear. ''Acting in the near term is important to stabilize the economy and to protect our taxpayers,'' Mr. Hoyer said.
 Those same taxpayers were also pushed front and center by the authors of the proposal as they sought to make the case that the true beneficiaries of the plan were not greedy Wall Street executives but ordinary Americans and their pensions, savings and employers.
 ''I think if this is not done, that there will be significant adverse consequences for the average person in the United States,'' Mr. Bernanke said at the Senate hearing.
 ''This is all about the American taxpayer,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''That's all we care about.''
 Judging from the snickers in the audience at that comment, not everyone was convinced. And Mr. Brown, the senator from Ohio, demanded to know whether Wall Street owed Main Street an apology.
 The economic experts seemed uncertain who would issue that apology, given that Wall Street, in the words of Mr. Bernanke, is an abstraction. But Mr. Paulson conceded the public had a right to be mad.
 ''You know, I share the outrage that people have,'' he told Mr. Brown. ''It's embarrassing to look at this. I think it's embarrassing for the United States of America. There's a lot of blame to go around, a lot of blame.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); LLOYD DOGGETT (73%); JOE BARTON (73%); JIM BUNNING (58%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); LOUIE GOHMERT (58%); HARRY REID (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



731 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Buyout Plan for Wall Street Is a Hard Sell on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Mark Landler reported from Washington and Steven Lee Myers from New York. David Stout, Brian Knowlton and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. received an angry and skeptical reception on Tuesday when he appeared before the Senate Banking Committee to ask Congress to promptly give him wide authority to rescue the nation's financial system.
 Mr. Paulson urged lawmakers ''to enact this bill quickly and cleanly, and avoid slowing it down with other provisions that are unrelated or don't have broad support.''
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who appeared with Mr. Paulson, said the financial system ''continues to be very unpredictable, and very worrisome,'' and that inaction could lead to a recession. 
 But after hours of back-and-forth, the committee's leaders said explicitly what had seemed clear all day: that they rejected the administration's plan. ''What they have sent us is not acceptable,'' the committee chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, told The Associated Press. 
 The panel's ranking Republican agreed. ''We have to look at some alternatives,'' Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama told The A.P.
 One after another throughout the session, senators from both parties said that, while they were prepared to move fast, they were far from ready to give the administration everything it wanted in its proposed $700 billion plan to buy up and hopefully resell troubled mortgage-backed securities. 
 On the House side of the Capitol, the mood was apparently similar after Vice President Dick Cheney met with Republican members. ''Hardly anyone in that room has decided yet how they're going to vote on this,'' Representative Phil Gingrey, Republican of Georgia, told Bloomberg News.
 Senator Dodd called the Treasury proposal ''stunning and unprecedented in its scope and lack of detail.'' 
 Asserting that the plan would allow Mr. Paulson to act with ''absolute impunity,'' Senator Dodd said, ''After reading this proposal, I can only conclude that it is not only our economy that is at risk, Mr. Secretary, but our Constitution, as well.''
 Another expression of disgust came from Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, who said the plan would ''take Wall Street's pain and spread it to the taxpayers.''
 ''It's financial socialism, and it's un-American,'' Mr. Bunning said.
 Senator Dodd called the crisis ''entirely foreseeable and preventable, not an act of God,'' and said that it angered him to think about ''the authors of this calamity'' walking away with the usual golden parachutes while taxpayers pick up the bill.
 ''There is no second act on this,'' Mr. Dodd said, acknowledging that speed was important. But it is more important, he said, ''to get it right.'' 
 Mr. Paulson said in response to questions that he shared the senators' exasperation. ''I'm not only concerned, I'm angry'' over the events that led to the problem, Mr. Paulson said. He blamed an outdated regulatory system for the turmoil and, in an effort to counter any impression that the proposed rescue plan is for the benefit of fat-cat Wall Streeters, said: ''This is all about the taxpayers. That is all we are about.''
 Mr. Paulson said that ''this troubled asset purchase program is the single most effective thing we can do to help homeowners, the American people, and stimulate our economy.''
 He and Mr. Bernanke said that the problems in the housing industry were the core of the crisis but that the problems would continue to spread far outside the housing sector if the problems in the mortgage markets were not addressed, and soon. 
 With global financial stresses and uncertainties continuing to play out, Mr. Bernanke warned in his testimony that ''if financial conditions fail to improve for a protracted period, the implications for the broader economy could be quite adverse.'' He reminded the senators at one point that he had never worked on Wall Street and was instead an economic scholar who had studied earlier financial crises, including the Depression.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, recalled Mr. Bernanke telling him in a recent meeting that the growing freeze in the credit markets, spawned by troubles with shaky mortgages, meant that ''the arteries are clogged,'' and that without action ''the patient will surely suffer a heart attack.''
 So Congress will act quickly, Mr. Schumer said, but not without strict scrutiny. ''Even on Wall Street, $700 billion is a lot of money,'' he said. And Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic majority leader, said it was ''not tenable'' to think that Congress would approve a bailout measure without a cap on executive pay, despite opposition from the Bush administration.
 None of the senators who listened to Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke disputed the grim possibilities if Congress should do nothing, but it was clear that they were hearing from their angry constituents. Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, for instance, said residents of her state have been complaining about ''costly and reckless'' behavior on Wall Street, and the potential cost to people who are anything but wealthy. (Senator Dole is running for re-election.) 
 President Bush, speaking in New York before the markets opened, expressed confidence that Congress would agree on a financial bailout plan and left open the possibility of accepting amendments being proposed by Democrats.
 ''Now there's a natural give and take when it comes to the legislative process,'' Mr. Bush said in brief remarks with the president of Pakistan, Asif Ali Zardari. ''There are good ideas that need to be listened to in order to get a good bill that will address the situation.''
 In a statement released earlier in the day, Mr. Bush said he had reassured worried world leaders that the United States had the ''right plan'' to deal with the crisis.
 The senators on the banking panel were unanimous in calling for ways to protect taxpayers' investments -- which at $700 billion would amount to $2,300 for every American citizen, Senator Mike Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, noted. 
 Mr. Paulson had been expected to encounter sharp questioning from lawmakers about the scope of the program, although several members of the banking committee applauded the credentials of Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke. 
 Democrats and Republicans are eager to include legislation that would protect mortgage holders, cut the salaries of executives at Wall Street firms and prevent a breakdown of the financial system.
 Senator Shelby expressed disdain for regulators ''who sat on the sidelines'' as the crisis was building. He recalled, too, that Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, once told him that the rate of borrowing in the American economy and the high percentage of their incomes that many people were spending on their homes posed ''a rather small risk to the mortgage market.''
 Mr. Shelby complained that the emerging program seemed to be ''a series of ad hoc measures'' rather than the kind of comprehensive approach that is needed.
 The back-and-forth came as the Bush administration and Congressional leaders moved closer to some kind of agreement on the bailout, including tight oversight of the program and new efforts to help homeowners at risk of foreclosure.
 But Congress and the administration remained at odds over the demands of some lawmakers, including limits on the pay of top executives and new authority to allow bankruptcy judges to reduce mortgage payments for borrowers facing foreclosure.
 Congressional leaders and Treasury officials also said they were close to an agreement over a proposal by some Democrats in which taxpayers could receive an ownership stake, in the form of warrants to buy stock, from firms seeking to sell distressed debt.
 Lawmakers want to require an equity stake, while the administration wants flexibility on that matter, a Treasury official said.
 Mr. Bernanke's testimony was exceptionally brief, considering the enormous stakes involved, a mere nine paragraphs, much of it devoted to a recapitulation of the growing crisis and how it took shape.
 It seemed to reflect the way Mr. Paulson and the administration have presented the bailout legislation, in bare-bones fashion, but with a clear tone of urgency.
 The White House has begun intensive lobbying to persuade nervous lawmakers to support the plan. Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff, and Keith Hennessy, the chairman of Mr. Bush's National Economics Council, were also headed to Capitol Hill on Tuesday.
 Tony Fratto, Mr. Bush's deputy secretary, told reporters there was a ''great sense of urgency'' to get the legislation passed this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); RICHARD SHELBY (78%); JIM BUNNING (58%); PHIL GINGREY (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



732 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Obama and McCain Stand Firm on Bailout

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and PATRICK HEALY; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Freeland, Mich., and Patrick Healy from Clearwater, Fla.

DATELINE: FREELAND, Mich. 

 BODY:
With pressure mounting on Congress to pass a $700 million bailout of financial firms, Senator John McCain struck a more urgent tone Tuesday on the need to act quickly, but he and Senator Barack Obama insisted on conditions that had to be met in the final plan.
 ''Further inaction is simply not an option,'' Mr. McCain said at a hastily called news conference, his first in six weeks, in Freeland, Mich., a suburb of Saginaw. ''We must pass legislation to address this crisis. If we don't, credit will dry up, with devastating consequences for our economy. People will no longer be able to buy homes and their life savings will be at stake. Businesses will not have enough money to pay their employees.'' 
 Conservatives in Congress have raised mounting alarms about the costs of the plan, but lawmakers are facing pleas from the White House to act swiftly to prevent economic calamity.
 Mr. Obama, at his own swiftly assembled news conference in Clearwater, Fla., was more critical than Mr. McCain of the bailout plan, and in both his tone and remarks sought to come across as the leader of the opposition party at a time of national crisis. Although he was in large part reiterating the concerns that Congressional Democrats have been expressing to reporters and at hearings in Washington, his goal was to encompass the various Democratic messages in one voice that would be a counterweight to the Republican position coming from the Bush administration.
 ''The president's stubborn inflexibility is both unacceptable and disturbingly familiar,'' Mr. Obama said, referring to Mr. Bush's comments in recent days that Congress approve the administration's bailout plan as presented. ''This is not the time for my way or the highway.''
 Mr. Obama added: ''It is wholly unreasonable to expect American taxpayers would or should hand this administration, or any administration, a $700 billion blank check with absolutely no oversight. The American people have every right to certain protections and assurances from Washington.''
 The two presidential candidates, one of whom will face the crisis from the Oval Office only four months from now, are trying to navigate the shifting politics of the rescue and have been adjusting their daily rhetoric accordingly. Neither is eager to be seen as standing in the way of what both view as essential legislation, but neither wants to be associated too closely with Mr. Bush and the biggest government bailout in American history.
 Between them, the two men demanded that nine overlapping conditions for the bailout be met, most of them proposals they have already made. Mr. Obama went further Tuesday in outlining his conditions, calling for a payback for taxpayers if the bailout succeeds; a bipartisan board to oversee the bailout; limits on any federal money going to compensate Wall Street executives; and aid to homeowners who are struggling to pay their mortgages.
 Mr. McCain, who had five conditions, also called for assuring that taxpayers recover some of the money put into the bailout; a bipartisan board to oversee the bailout; a requirement that the senior leaders of any rescued firm not make more than the highest-paid government official; transparency in the implementation of the legislation, with all details available online to the public; and a stipulation that no spending for pet legislative projects, or earmarks, be included in the bill.
 Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama also said that there should be no economic stimulus package as part of the bailout proposal -- perhaps a government check sent directly to taxpayers -- as some Democrats are proposing.
 ''This legislation should stand on its own,'' Mr. McCain said.
 Mr. Obama told reporters that if his four objectives were not met, he would recommend that federal and Congressional negotiators ''go back to the drawing board'' to restructure the bailout plan. He side-stepped two questions about whether he would vote against bailout legislation that did not include his priorities, and he also did not commit to returning to Washington to go on record and cast a vote on a final package.
 ''If we get consensus and everybody is popping Champagne, then I'll probably go back to campaign with folks who are having a tough time in Ohio and Michigan,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If this ends up being a close vote or a vote where the outcome is at all in question, then obviously this is a top priority.''
 Mr. McCain similarly side-stepped a question about which of his five provisions would be a deal-breaker and cause him to vote against the legislation.
 ''I can't say that at this time because I think the emphasis should be on the adoption of these principles,'' Mr. McCain said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the positions of John McCain and Barack Obama on the proposed bailout of financial firms misstated the estimated cost of the package. It is $700 billion, not million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama, left, in Clearwater, Fla. on Tuesday. ''The president's stubborn inflexibility is both unacceptable and disturbingly familiar,'' Mr. Obama said. Senator John McCain, bottom, in Freeland, Mich., said, ''Further inaction is simply not an option.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



733 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Park Avenue Diplomacy

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 I don't agree with those muttering darkly that the picture of Gov. Sarah Palin with a perky smile and shapely gams posing with a pleased Henry Kissinger, famous for calling power the ultimate aphrodisiac, is a sign of the apocalypse. 
 It isn't even a sign of the apocalipstick. 
 How the mighty 85-year-old Henry the K has fallen from his days chasing Jill St. John and running the world to his hour briefing of a 44-year-old Wasilla hockey mom who may end up running the world.
 Governor Palin knows a lot about the End of Days from her years at the Pentecostal Wasilla Assembly of God, which had preached (after a war in the Middle East about light vanquishing darkness) that Alaska would be a shelter for Rapturous ''saved'' Christians at the end of times when they ascend to heaven.
 Sarah was motorcading around Manhattan even as a ''greed is good'' Wall Street experienced an End of Days vibe while a world gone sour on America descended on the United Nations.
 After losing its moral superiority abroad with phony evidence for attacking Iraq, the U.S. has now lost its moral superiority in the financial arena. Once more, W. took the ball, carried it off the cliff and went biking. 
 It's hard to imagine that John McCain and Sarah Palin still want advice from the Unwise Man Kissinger. It's sort of like villagers in those old movies who bring in the wizened witch doctor to shake a stick over them.
 Doctor K prolonged the war in Vietnam to help Nixon get re-elected and then advised W. on Iraq that the only way to beat an insurgency and save face is to stick it out, no matter how many American kids and foreign civilians die. 
 Sarah speed-dated diplomacy on Tuesday. She had her very first national security briefing from the director of national intelligence and then went to a meeting with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai. He thanked her for the help of the Alaskan National Guard in Afghanistan and told her about his young son, Mirwais, which means ''the Light of the House.'' Then she met with President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia.
 Finally, Sarah huddled with Henry in his Park Avenue office, next to pictures of Ford and Reagan. The two made an odd couple: the last impure Rockefeller Republican and the first pure Rovian Republican, grown totally in the petri dish of cultural crusaderism. 
 Summoning his old Harvard teaching days, Kissinger surely looked for a common didactic starting point: She has seen Russia. ''Goot. I haff seen it, too.''
 (A senior Palin campaign aide told CBS News's Scott Conroy that the governor's foreign-policy experience was atmospheric, akin to the way someone from Miami might obtain a feel for Latin America. ''It is very much being able to look off the tip of Alaska,'' the aide said. ''Metaphorically, I'm talking about.'')
 Kissinger probably explained detente and Metternich to Palin, while she explained the Iditarod and moose carving to him.
 They talked Russia, which is relevant.
 Republicans, who have won so many elections painting Democrats as socialists and pinkos, have now done so much irresponsible deregulating and deficit spending that they have to avoid fiscal Armageddon by turning America into a socialist, pinko society with nationalized financial institutions and a financial czar accountable to no one and no law.
 And Governor Palin spends so much time ostracizing reporters who might quiz her on NATO or the liquidity crunch that her press strategy is beginning to smack of Putin's -- but less lethal. 
 Even if she blows off the First Amendment -- and lets McCain's Rove, Steve Schmidt, demonize the press even though she disdains women politicians who whine -- Bill Clinton is still a fan.
 Besides talking about what a great man John McCain is on ''The View'' and ''David Letterman,'' Bill praised Palin at his Clinton Global Initiative meeting in New York and will receive her there on Thursday. 
 ''I come from Arkansas. I get why she is hot out there,'' he said authoritatively, adding: ''People look at her, and they say, 'All those kids. Something that happens in everybody's family. I'm glad she loves her daughter and she's not ashamed of her. Glad that girl's going around with her boyfriend. Glad they're going to get married.' '' He said voters would think: ''I like that little Down syndrome kid. One of them lives down the street. They're wonderful. ... And I like the idea that this guy does those long-distance races. Stayed in the race for 500 miles with a broken arm. My kind of guy.''
 On ''The View,'' he said he understood that some women might vote for Palin on the basis of gender, even if it was against their economic interest.
 ''You can't tell someone else that the ground on which they make their voting decision is irrational,'' he said primly.
 Well, actually you could, if you weren't still sulking and plotting for 2012. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); RELIGION (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); HAMAD KARZAI (50%); ALVARO URIBE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); VIET NAM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



734 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: California Budget Is Signed, 85 Days Late and Despised

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Tuesday signed California's budget, a document that was 85 days late and among state lawmakers, perhaps the most universally despised budget in the nation.
 State Controller John Chiang used the occasion to move quickly to dispense with some 80,000 in claims that have gone unpaid since the state began its fiscal year on July 1. 
 ''This record-setting budget stalemate has been an enormous burden on so many small businesses and health care providers who care for our most vulnerable Californians: the sick, elderly, disabled and children,'' Mr. Chiang said in a statement. ''I will quickly pay all backlogged claims, and I am asking state agencies for their assistance to ensure that we get payments into the hands of those who most desperately need them as quickly as possible.'' 
 The $143 billion spending plan, which the governor signed without the usual public ceremony, was the subject of heated debate and intense last-minute haggling among Democrats, who control the Legislature, Republicans and the governor, a Republican who was at odds with lawmakers from both parties over how to close a $15 billion gap.
 The budget, $68 million larger than last year's, sets $1.7 billion in reserves should state revenues come in below estimates, highly likely in California's, and the country's, volatile economy.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger also vetoed $510 million in line items, including $944,000 from the Department of Fair Employment and Housing, a cut that means the loss of nine enforcement jobs; $8 million from the state's Alcohol and Drug Program's program for preventing crystal meth trafficking; and $2 million from a California Conservation Corps work training program. 
 The budget relies heavily on accounting maneuvers -- moving tax receipts from one year to a next -- as well as a plan to borrow $5 billion against future lottery earnings, which requires the approval of voters in a ballot measure in a special election next year. If the lottery plan is defeated, midyear cuts and other measures to rein in spending are likely. 
 The government will also increase the penalty on corporations that understate their tax liability by at least $1 million, to add a 20 percent penalty in addition to a 10 percent interest rate on underreported taxes. But the spending plan contains no substantive changes to the state's expenses or its revenue-raising structure, which might have staved off another hole next year.
 ''We have always said this really does just kick the can down the road,'' said Alicia Trost, a spokeswoman for Don Perata, the Senate president pro tem, a Democrat. ''The only thing good is that we fully fund education, we prevent borrowing, and we avoid the most onerous cuts to the neediest communities.''
 The governor, however, proclaimed the budget a victory -- one he squeezed from the Legislature after rejecting an earlier plan and after Democrats and Republicans could not agree on a sales tax increase. 
 He said he was particularly pleased by the budget's proposed increase in the size of California's rainy day fund, to 12.5 percent of the state's general fund expenditures from 5 percent. That provision, too, requires a nod from voters in the special election. 
 Mr. Chiang's office may begin writing checks as early as Friday, a spokeswoman said, beginning with $3.6 billion in Medicaid payments to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers that had been held up under the standoff. Further payments to vendors and other state creditors will follow. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With representatives from local governments looking on, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed the state budget on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE YEATER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); VETO (79%); TAX LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); BALLOTS (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (64%); LAYOFFS (64%); REFERENDUMS (61%); HEALTH CARE (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



735 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Dear Iraqi Friends

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
From: President George W. Bush
 To: President Jalal Talabani of Iraq, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, Speaker Mahmoud al-Mashadani
 Dear Sirs, I am writing you on a matter of grave importance. It's hard for me to express to you how deep the economic crisis in America is today. We are discussing a $1 trillion bailout for our troubled banking system. This is a financial 9/11. As Americans lose their homes and sink into debt, they no longer understand why we are spending $1 billion a day to make Iraqis feel more secure in their homes. 
 For the past two years, there has been a debate in this country over whether to set a deadline for a U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. It seemed as if the resolution of that debate depended on who won the coming election. That is no longer the case. A deadline is coming. American taxpayers who would not let their money be used to subsidize their own companies -- Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch -- will not have their tax dollars used to subsidize your endless dithering over which Iraqi community dominates Kirkuk. 
 Don't misunderstand me. Many Americans and me are relieved by the way you, the Iraqi people and Army have pulled back from your own brink of self-destruction. I originally launched this war in pursuit of weapons of mass destruction. I was wrong. But it quickly became apparent that Al Qaeda and its allies in Iraq were determined to make America fail in any attempt to build a decent Iraq and tilt the Middle East toward a more democratic track, no matter how many Iraqis had to be killed in the process. This was not the war we came for, but it was the one we found.
 Al Qaeda understood that if it could defeat America in the heart of the Arab-Muslim world, that it would resonate throughout the region and put Al Qaeda and its allies in the ascendant. Conversely, we understood that if we could defeat Al Qaeda in Iraq, in collaboration with other Arabs and Muslims, that it would resonate throughout the region and pay dividends. Something very big was at stake here. We have gone a long way toward winning that war.
 At the same time, I also came to realize that in helping Iraqis organize elections, we were facilitating the first ever attempt by the people of a modern Arab state to write their own social contract -- rather than have one imposed on them by kings, dictators or colonial powers. If Iraqi Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds can forge your own social contract, then some form of a consensual government is possible in the Arab world. If you can't, it is kings and dictators forever -- with all the pathologies that come with that. Something very big is at stake there, too. 
 It's not the stakes that have changed. It is the fact that you are now going to have to step up and finish this job. You have presumed an endless American safety net to permit you to endlessly bargain and dicker over who gets what. I've been way, way too patient with you. That is over. We bought you time with the surge to reach a formal political settlement and you better use it fast, because it is a rapidly diminishing asset. 
 You Shiites have got to bring the Sunni tribes and Awakening groups, who fought the war against Al Qaeda of Iraq, into the government and Army. You Kurds have got to find a solution for Kirkuk and accept greater integration into the Iraqi state system, while maintaining your autonomy. You Sunnis in government have got to agree to elections so the newly emergent Sunni tribal and Awakening groups are able to run for office and become ''institutionalized'' into the Iraqi system.
 So pass your election and oil laws, spend some of your oil profits to get Iraqi refugees resettled and institutionalize the recent security gains while you still have a substantial U.S. presence. Read my lips: It will not be there indefinitely -- even if McCain wins.
 Our ambassador, Ryan Crocker, has told me your problem: Iraqi Shiites are still afraid of the past, Iraqi Sunnis are still afraid of the future and Iraqi Kurds are still afraid of both.
 Well, you want to see fear. Look in the eyes of Americans who are seeing their savings wiped out, their companies disappear, their homes foreclosed. We are a different country today. After a decade of the world being afraid of too much American power, it is now going to be treated to a world of too little American power, as we turn inward to get our house back in order.
 I still believe a decent outcome in Iraq, if you achieve it, will have long-lasting, positive implications for you and the entire Arab world, although the price has been way too high. I will wait for history for my redemption, but the American people will not. They want nation-building in America now. They will not walk away from Iraq overnight, but they will not stay there in numbers over time. I repeat: Do not misread this moment. God be with you. 
 George W. Bush. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); RELIGION (62%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (91%); JALAL TALABANI (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



736 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval On Wall St. Stirs Anger In the U.N.

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Michael Cooper, Steven Lee Myers and Larry Rohter contributed reporting.

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
Wall Street and the Bush administration's record of financial oversight came under attack at the United Nations on Tuesday, with one world leader after another saying that market turmoil in the United States threatened the global economy. 
 ''We must not allow the burden of the boundless greed of a few to be shouldered by all,'' said President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil in an opening speech that reflected the tone of the gathering. 
 The annual opening of the General Assembly habitually casts a shadow over New York every September, snarling traffic and tempers. But this year it is New York, or at least Wall Street, projecting its shadow back across the United Nations. Virtually every president or monarch from around the globe made some reference to the financial upheaval, and the looming cloud was also the buzz of the back corridors. 
 With a pillar of American power -- its financial leadership -- so badly shaken, there was a certain satisfaction among some of the attendees that the Bush administration, which had long lectured other nations about the benefits of unfettered markets, was now rejecting its own medicine by proposing a major bailout of financial firms. 
 But there was also serious concern that the United States had not policed its markets carefully enough to prevent the damage to its economy and others, making it much harder to raise money for the world's most vulnerable people.
 ''The global financial crisis endangers all our work,'' said the secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, who used his opening remarks at the General Assembly to question the reliance on free markets. ''We need a new understanding on business ethics and governance, with more compassion and less uncritical faith in the 'magic' of markets.'' 
 President Bush, making his eighth and last address to the United Nations, with which he has had a troubled relationship, sought to reassure world leaders that his administration was taking ''bold steps'' to stanch the economic crisis in the United States, which, he said, ''would have a devastating effect on other economies around the world.''
 Amid a long ode to the importance of continuing the fight against terrorism, he devoted one paragraph to the rescue plan. ''We've promoted stability in the markets by preventing the disorderly failure of major companies,'' Mr. Bush said. He noted that many were watching how the United States responded because economies were ''more closely connected than ever before.'' 
 But for some leaders, the Bush bailout plan seemed hypocritical given the tough course Washington has often advised struggling nations to take. 
 ''What you are seeing here is the letting off of some political steam,'' said Mark Malloch Brown, a British cabinet minister and former senior United Nations official. ''They are all remembering the very hard, unforgiving advice that they got from American financial institutions'' to ''deflate your economy, let your banks go to the wall,'' he said. ''There is a resentment at what they would see as a further evidence of double standards.''
 The General Assembly has long served as a handy megaphone for American foes like Fidel Castro of Cuba or President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran -- who this year delivered his standard diatribe against the evils of America and Zionism. The extraordinary nature of the outpouring on Tuesday, however, was that it came from some of America's closest allies and trading partners -- not from those the United States would label political outcasts, but from mainstream countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America. 
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France described the crisis as the worst financial mess since the Depression of the 1930s and the financial system as ''insane.'' He called for a summit meeting in November to determine how to address the problems and to develop greater international regulations of financial markets. Many leaders echoed that latter demand.
 Mr. Sarkozy also said that at a news conference he had talked with Wall Street bankers, but that they claimed not to know who was responsible for the mess. When banks and hedge funds hand out fat bonuses, they are all willing to gloat about their success, Mr. Sarkozy said, ''but when there are deficits we don't know who is responsible.''
 During a brief appearance with Pakistan's new president, Asif Ali Zarbari, Mr. Bush acknowledged that world leaders gathering in New York had questioned him about the turmoil and the administration's response to it, ''wondering whether or not the United States has the right plan to deal with this economic crisis.''
 The American ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalilzad, said he was not hearing complaints about the financial crisis at his meetings, and suggested that the world leaders accepted that the United States was facing the issue. ''We are very agile and we are moving very quickly to deal with it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Malloch Brown, the British minister, also noted that if the leaders lambasting the United States from the podium consulted with their finance ministers, they would be likely to find them very happy that Washington was planning a huge bailout. 
 Yet doubts were being raised not just at the United Nations but farther afield, with Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, among the most outspoken. She said that at last year's meeting of the Group of 8, she had strongly urged both the United States and Britain to be more rigorous in supervising financial activities, and even offered specific proposals to be applied to banks and other institutions.
 But the United States was not interested, she said. She also seemed to express a certain exasperation that the United States was now asking Europe for help, after inflicting damage on the rest of the world that could have been avoided.
 ''We did what we were supposed to do,'' she said in an interview with Munchner Merkur, a German newspaper. ''We adopted a decent E.U. regulation on the national statute books,'' but ''when it came to it, the Americans said, 'That's not for us.' ''
 The theme promoted for this year's General Assembly is the development of the world's poorest nations, laid out in eight targets, including universal primary education and the elimination of maternal mortality, known collectively as the Millennium Development Goals. 
 Mr. Ban had been hoping that member states would renew their commitment to the tune of $72 billion annually, and evidently the turmoil in the markets threw that into question. He told a meeting of business executives on the side of the General Assembly that if the United States could promise $700 billion for Wall Street in one week, then $72 billion should not be such a stretch. 
 There was a certain amount of shellshock left from the wave of bad financial news, but African leaders in particular were holding out the importance of continuing aid. 
 ''You cannot but talk about it,'' said Elizabeth Ohene, Ghana's minister of state for education, science and sport, trying to remain optimistic that the huge bailout plan for Wall Street meant there would be plenty of money to go around. 
 It would be far better to invest in the education of children, she told a luncheon gathering, than to use a bunch of fancy financial engineering to bail out Wall Street and other global financial centers. ''Believe me,'' she said, ''it will be much cheaper.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush stressed the fight against terrorism and touched on his economic rescue plan before the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); ETHICS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); BUSINESS ETHICS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RICK PERRY (58%); BAN KI-MOON (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



737 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Libre: Rum, Revolution and a Family Tale

BYLINE: By BARRY GEWEN

 BODY:
BACARDI AND THE LONG FIGHT FOR CUBA 
 The Biography of a Cause 
 By Tom Gjelten 
 Illustrated. 413 pages. Viking. $27.95. 
 Americans have been on a death watch for quite a while now, without really paying a whole lot of attention. Yet once Fidel Castro passes from the scene, and the regime he founded collapses -- in a few years? months? days? -- the United States will inevitably become involved in setting the terms for Cuba's future. So this is a particularly appropriate time to learn something about Cuba's past. 
 There's a shelf of histories to consult. But it's hard to imagine that any is as enjoyable as ''Bacardi and the Long Fight for Cuba'' by Tom Gjelten, a correspondent for National Public Radio. His book is as smooth and refreshing as a well-made daiquiri.
 Mr. Gjelten has had the brilliant idea of telling Cuba's story through a family and a business that have been at the center of that country for as long as there has been a country, indeed even longer. As Mr. Gjelten writes, and succeeds in proving, ''the history of Cuba can be narrated around tales of rum.'' 
 The Bacardi Rum Company was founded by a Catalan merchant in 1862, when Cuba was still a Spanish colony. In the decades that followed his heirs were deeply involved in the struggle for independence, in Cuba's tortured relationship with the United States, in the rollicking era when Havana was ''the Las Vegas of the Caribbean,'' in the Castro revolution that overthrew the dictator Fulgencio Batista and in the battle that continues today against Mr. Castro from Miami and other places of exile. 
 Teddy Roosevelt goes charging through these pages. Meyer Lansky casts a shadow as Batista's ''gambling adviser.'' Frank Sinatra drops by to sing a song or two. The great Puerto Rican leader Luis Munoz Marin puts in an all-too-brief appearance. Ernest Hemingway downs his favorite drink, daiquiris made with Bacardi rum.
 What makes Mr. Gjelten's book such a standout is its quality of subjectivity. Presenting his history through the lives of people who affected the events they personally experienced and were in turn affected by them, he gives us drama, not chronology or statistics. Sometimes he dutifully draws back to provide necessary commercial detail about Bacardi, and at those moments the book risks dwindling into a standard business history of a little company and how it grew. 
 But Mr. Gjelten always returns to the individual family members for a fresh burst of narrative energy. Two, one influential in the 19th century, the other in the 20th, are particularly extraordinary: Emilio Bacardi Moreau, a son of the founder, who risked his business and his life for the cause of Cuban independence, and Jose (Pepin) Bosch, who led the company for a quarter-century and who first backed Mr. Castro, then became one of his most determined, and most powerful, enemies.
 The 24-year-old Emilio Bacardi supported the first Cuban war of independence in 1868, and with its failure became an active revolutionary, smuggling arms and raising money for rebels in the hills. He was an abolitionist when the sugar economy of Cuba depended on slavery, a freethinker who questioned Jesus' divinity, despite the power of the Roman Catholic Church on the island. Twice he was arrested, and spent years in Spanish prisons. Yet he ran a successful business, his rum gaining in popularity and winning medals in international competitions while he fought Spain. He also wrote novels.
 After the Spanish-American War of 1898, Bacardi worked in uneasy alliance with the American occupation army. (Readers may be forgiven if they see certain similarities to the confusions and contradictions in present-day Iraq.) In 1901 Bacardi was elected mayor of his hometown, Santiago, and then to the Cuban Senate. But the political pressures and counterpressures proved too much for him, and as his country descended into chaos, he abandoned public life to concentrate on the family business and his literary pursuits. Before his death in 1922, he compiled a 10-volume collection of annotated documents, a classic work titled ''Cronicas de Santiago de Cuba.'' 
 In summarizing Bacardi's life, Mr. Gjelten writes, ''Though his name is mentioned in few Cuban history books, Emilio Bacardi Moreau was a rare example of enlightened and responsible civic leadership in Cuba at a time when such men were in short supply.''
 Jose (Pepin) Bosch demonstrated the same heroic commitment to civic responsibility under very different circumstances. Married to the founder's granddaughter, he served as the Cuban finance minister before being selected to run the company in 1951. After Batista seized power a year later, Bosch became an opposition leader, one of the few businessmen to call for a restoration of democracy. 
 Like Emilio Bacardi almost a century earlier, he risked everything for his ideals; in 1957 his son was briefly arrested by Batista's military police. Soon Bosch was raising funds for Mr. Castro, and when the revolutionaries victoriously entered Havana in the first days of 1959, they could count Bosch and the Bacardi family among their most prominent supporters.
 There are no more dramatic sections in Mr. Gjelten's book than those recounting Bosch's gradual disillusionment with Mr. Castro. First came the firing squads; then the growing centralization of power; then the removal of moderates, including some of Bosch's friends, from the government; then the suppression of the news media and the jailing of dissidents; finally the confiscations of ''bourgeois'' property. In July 1960 Bosch and his wife, Enriqueta, left for Miami, never again to set foot in Cuba. He died in 1994.
 During Bosch's years in exile, his story and that of his company take on uncomfortable ambiguities. Bosch became linked to at least one terrorist, who thought the way to fight Mr. Castro was to blow up airplanes, and there are suggestions of Mafia ties as well. In Cuba Bacardi had enjoyed a reputation as a socially conscious, progressive employer, but in the United States Bosch's closest political allies were right-wingers like Jesse Helms. When three of Tom DeLay's aides were indicted for violating campaign-finance laws, Bacardi was one of several companies indicted with them. 
 For almost a century and a half, Mr. Gjelten shows, the Bacardi company and the Bacardi family strenuously associated themselves with what they saw as ''the Cuban cause.'' In recent years they identified that cause almost entirely with the overthrow of Fidel Castro, to the exclusion of just about anything else. Now Mr. Castro's end is in sight. Yet it's not clear who or what will replace him, or how, and so Mr. Gjelten is forced to conclude his book on an uncertain note. 
 Once Cuba produced remarkable, heroic men like Emilio Bacardi and Pepin Bosch. But today, Mr. Gjelten writes, the idea of the Cuban cause is ''no longer clear,'' and the heroes for a post-Castro Cuba are nowhere in sight.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/VIKING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%)

COMPANY: BACARDI LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (56%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); PUERTO RICO (73%)

TITLE: Bacardi and the Long Fight for Cuba (Book)>; Bacardi and the Long Fight for Cuba (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



738 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: McCain Aide's Firm Was Paid by Freddie Mac

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the giant mortgage companies at the heart of the credit crisis paid $15,000 a month from the end of 2005 through last month to a firm owned by Senator John McCain's campaign manager, according to two people with direct knowledge of the arrangement.
 The disclosure undercuts a statement by Mr. McCain on Sunday night that the campaign manager, Rick Davis, had had no involvement with the company for the last several years.
 Mr. Davis's firm received the payments from the company, Freddie Mac, until it was taken over by the government this month along with Fannie Mae, the other big mortgage lender whose deteriorating finances helped precipitate the cascading problems on Wall Street, the people said.
 They said they did not recall Mr. Davis's doing much substantive work for the company in return for the money, other than speak to a political action committee of high-ranking employees in October 2006 on the approaching midterm Congressional elections. They said Mr. Davis's firm, Davis & Manafort, had been kept on the payroll because of Mr. Davis's close ties to Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, who by 2006 was widely expected to run again for the White House. 
 Mr. Davis took a leave from Davis & Manafortfor the presidential campaign, but as a partner and equity-holder continues to benefit from its income. No one at Davis & Manafort other than Mr. Davis was involved in efforts on Freddie Mac's behalf, the people familiar with the arrangement said.
 A Freddie Mac spokeswoman said the company would not comment. 
 Jill Hazelbaker, a spokeswoman for the McCain campaign, did not dispute the payments to Mr. Davis's firm. But she said that Mr. Davis had stopped taking a salary from his firm by the end of 2006 and that his work did not affect Mr. McCain. 
 ''Senator McCain's positions on policy matters are based upon what he believes to be in the public interest,'' Ms. Hazelbaker said in a written statement.
 The revelations come at a time when Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are sparring over ties to lobbyists and special interests and seeking political advantage in a campaign being reshaped by the financial crisis and the plan to bail out investment firms.
 Mr. McCain's campaign has been attacking Senator Barack Obama, his Democratic rival, for ties to former officials of the mortgage lenders, both of which have long histories of cultivating allies in the two parties to fend off efforts to restrict their activities. Mr. McCain has been running a television commercial suggesting that Mr. Obama takes advice on housing issues from Franklin D. Raines, former chief executive of Fannie Mae, a contention flatly denied by Mr. Raines and the Obama campaign. 
 Freddie Mac's roughly $500,000 in payments to Davis & Manafort began immediately after Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in late 2005 disbanded an advocacy coalition that they had set up and hired Mr. Davis to run, the people familiar with the arrangement said. 
 From 2000 to the end of 2005, Mr. Davis had received nearly $2 million as president of the coalition, the Homeownership Alliance, which the companies created to help them oppose new regulations and protect their status as federally chartered companies with implicit government backing. That status let them borrow cheaply, helping to fuel rapid growth but also their increased purchases of the risky mortgage securities that were their downfall.
 On Sunday, in an interview with CNBC and The New York Times, Mr. McCain responded to a question about Mr. Davis's role in the advocacy group through 2005 by saying that his campaign manager ''has had nothing to do with it since, and I'll be glad to have his record examined by anybody who wants to look at it.''
 Such assertions, along with McCain campaign television ads tying Mr. Obama to former Fannie Mae chiefs, have riled current and former officials of the two companies and provoked them to volunteer rebuttals. The two officials with direct knowledge of Freddie Mac's post-2005 contract with Mr. Davis spoke on condition of anonymity. Four other outside consultants, three Democrats and a Republican also speaking on condition of anonymity, said the arrangement was widely known among people involved in Freddie Mac's lobbying efforts.
 As president of the Homeownership Alliance, Mr. Davis got $30,000 to $35,000 a month. Mr. Davis, along with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have characterized the alliance as a coalition of many housing industry and consumer groups to promote homeownership, but numerous current and former officials at both companies say the two mortgage companies created and bankrolled the operation to combat efforts by competitors to rein in their business. They dissolved the group at the end of 2005 as part of cost-cutting in the wake of accounting scandals and, at Freddie Mac, a lobbying scandal that forced out its former top Republican lobbyist. 
 On Monday, the McCain campaign accused The New York Times of bias for reporting the payments to Mr. Davis for the alliance work from the mortgage giants. Mr. Davis said that he had worked not for the two companies but for the advocacy group, which included other nonprofit organization as well, and was focused only on promoting homeownership.
 After the Homeownership Alliance was dissolved, Mr. Davis asked to stay on a retainer, the people familiar with the deal said. Hollis McLoughlin, who was chief of staff to Richard F. Syron, Freddie Mac's chief executive, arranged for a new contract with Davis & Manafort, at the reduced rate of $15,000 a month, they said. Mr. Syron lost his job in the government takeover this month. Mr. McLoughlin, who through a spokeswoman declined to comment, was a former chief of staff to Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady in the first President Bush's administration, and has longstanding Republican ties.
 Mr. Davis was hired as a consultant, not a lobbyist, the officials said. Davis & Manafort in recent years has filed federal lobbying reports for a number of companies but not Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae.
 Later in 2006, Mr. Davis was working on Mr. McCain's emerging presidential campaign, as chief financial officer. The only thing that Freddie Mac officials could recall Mr. Davis doing for the company was the October 2006 pre-election forum with mid-level and senior executives who contribute to Freddie PAC, the company's political action committee.
 An electronic invitation to the employees, read by an official to the New York Times, said ''Please join us for political food for thought'' with Paul Begala, a longtime Democratic consultant, ''and Rick Davis, former 2000 presidential campaign manager and current advisor to Senator John McCain.'' Mr. Begala, who also was a paid consultant to Freddie Mac until this month, confirmed that the event took place.
 At least two other people associated with Mr. McCain have ties to either Freddie Mac. The lobbying firm of the Republican that Mr. McCain has enlisted to plan his transition to the White House should he be elected, William Timmons Sr., earned nearly $3 million from Freddie Mac between 2000 and its seizure, federal lobbying records show. Mr. Timmons is founder of Timmons & Co., one of Washington's best-known lobbying shops. The payments were first reported by Bloomberg News.
 Mark Buse, Mr. McCain's chief of staff for his Senate office, also is a Freddie Mac alumnus. He and his former lobbying employer, ML Strategies, registered to lobby for the company in July 2003, and received $460,000 before the association ended after 2004.
 Mr. McCain and his advisers have argued that whatever connections Mr. Davis and other McCain campaign officials have had to the mortgage giants, Mr. McCain in the Senate hasbeen an advocate for reforming them. And they have suggested that Mr. Obama is linked to the companies through donations from their employees ties to former officials there, including James Johnson, another former chief executive of Fannie Mae who was the head of Mr. Obama's vice presidential search team until stepping aside after coming under criticism for getting a mortgage on favorable terms.
 Since his first campaign for the Senate in 2004, Senator Obama has received about $126,000 in contributions from employees of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, while Senator McCain, over the last decade, has received about $22,000, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); FRANK RAINES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



739 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: The Bailout: Questions and Doubts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Talks on Bailout Advance; Congress Is Angry and Skeptical'' (front page, Sept. 23):
 I hope we learn at least one lesson from the current financial crisis, and from the view that a huge bailout is the only solution to it. That lesson is that from now on we should view anyone who says he believes in the ''free market'' with the same attitude that we reserve for an adult who says he believes in the tooth fairy.
 What should now be clear is that there are badly regulated economic activities and well-regulated economic activities. The financial sector has for quite a while been a haven for very badly regulated economic activity. 
 Any long-term solution to the current situation must abjure ''free market'' ideology, and acknowledge that our long experiment in loose regulation without serious enforcement has been a failure. Only then can Congress evaluate whether a $700 billion bailout will actually help the nation, as opposed to simply rescuing Wall Street.
 Glenn Hendler New York, Sept. 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The Bush-Paulson bailout proposal includes the following language: ''Decisions by the Secretary pursuant to the authority of this Act are non-reviewable and committed to agency discretion, and may not be reviewed by any court of law or any administrative agency.''
 This is all too similar to the authorities granted to fight the war on terror and to invade Iraq, based on the pressing urgency of the situations. 
 Congress must not settle for token ''compromises'' about executive compensation and homeowner mortgage relief, while allowing this clause to stand. 
 David Liguori Albany, Sept. 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 For this middle-class citizen who lives within my means, without unmanageable debt, the angry posturing of lawmakers does nothing to appease my sickness at this foreseeable calamity. 
 As early as 2005, Paul Krugman warned us of the housing bubble and the attendant effects of a housing collapse on the economy. That my tax dollars will inevitably help pay historic sums for inexcusable excesses in which I played no discernible part is infuriating. When I add the billions wasted by an inept president on unnecessary wars, tax cuts for the richest, and on and on, I feel completely defeated.
 Stacey Duke San Francisco, Sept. 23, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 When both Paul Krugman and William Kristol (columns, Sept. 22) agree that something is wrong, they must be right! 
 They are right that it's fundamentally wrong to borrow $700 billion or more from our children and grandchildren, without their consent, to bail out grown-up financiers and investors.
 Excluding the worst victims, those who were preyed upon by unscrupulous mortgage lenders, is even worse.
 The Bush administration's response is awfully similar to its handling of other financial crises: the federal budget, energy and financing the Iraq war. It is to borrow now and dump the days of reckoning on future administrations and generations. With luck, Congress will this time avoid the same shame. 
 Mark Dayton Minneapolis, Sept. 23, 2008
 The writer, a Democrat, is a former United States senator from Minnesota.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks announces that after liberalism and conservatism we are entering an era of Progressive Corporatism (''The Establishment Lives!,'' column, Sept. 23). If so, it would be nothing new. 
 In the 1930s, during the Roosevelt administration, Corporate America recognized its interest in a government that invested in the economic infrastructure of America. Once again, it took a financial meltdown to remind it that government provides the capital for health, science, education, transportation, and yes, regulation that unfettered markets fail to provide on their own. Once again, the pendulum swings from profits to prudence.
 Mitchel Abolafia Albany, Sept. 23, 2008
 The writer is an associate professor, Rockefeller College of Public Affairs and Policy, University at Albany.
 To the Editor:
 The decision to spend almost a trillion dollars of the taxpayers' money should not be made in a week. There should be a debate between Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain dedicated solely to this fiscal crisis. No two-minute sound bites. No moderator controlling the discussion. Give each of them time to outline a plan (say, 15 to 20 minutes) and then let them ask each other questions. 
 Because of the supposed urgency of the situation, announce the debate this week and hold it next week. To give them time to prepare and consult with their advisers, reschedule the debate this Friday to a later date.
 Geoffrey S. Brown Colonia, N.J., Sept. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Omitting relief for homeowners from the proposed bailout plan would be like creating a post-Katrina program to provide relief for New Orleans lenders, but not the people displaced.
 Many homeowners need temporary relief to stay in their homes and prevent the neighborhood-destabilizing effects of foreclosures and short sales. Congress could provide such relief at no direct cost to the taxpayers by temporarily permitting homeowners to choose to defer a percentage of their monthly mortgage payments until loan maturity.
 Reducing foreclosures and desperation sales would also help stabilize the real estate market and reduce the cost of the bailout.
 Richard Bashner New York, Sept. 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Retirees Filling the Front Line in Market Fears'' (front page, Sept. 23):
 After working a combined total of about 60 years in public schools and thinking that we had made wise investments in real estate, we have seen those investments fall precipitously. Millions of Americans like us have been made victims of financial markets that have not been subject to even a modicum of regulation. 
 We have no idea whether or not the real estate we own will ever rebound, and are alarmed that the federal government would even consider a huge bailout plan for financial institutions without guarantees that those who have squandered the nation's wealth will not be held accountable.
 Janice Lisnoff Howard Lisnoff Great Barrington, Mass., Sept. 23, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL MARDEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); TERRORISM (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); MORTGAGE BANKING (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



740 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Not a Feel-Good Time

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who certainly knows his way around high finance, warned this week that Wall Street's troubles were quickly becoming New York City's. The city gets more than a quarter of its revenues from the financial-services industry and as Mr. Bloomberg put it: ''This is not going to be a feel-good time.'' 
 The mayor has already issued a call for additional cuts in the city's $59 billion budget. He wants to trim it by $500 million this fiscal year and $1 billion next year. Those cuts are prudent, but it will be up to Mr. Bloomberg and the City Council to make certain that the city's neediest residents don't bear too much of the burden.
 Given how bad things look, it is unlikely that these cuts will be enough to keep the budget balanced. The mayor suggested that he may also ask the City Council to increase property taxes on homeowners by 7 percent immediately -- rather than in July 2009 as planned. That might raise $600 million. 
 No one likes to pay more taxes. But Mr. Bloomberg's proposal is reasonable, especially at such a tough time. And New Yorkers need to remember that when the city's finances were better last year, Mr. Bloomberg and the City Council cut property taxes by 7 percent. 
 The Council would have to approve a tax increase, which will require political courage. The mayor appears willing to take much of that heat, the way he did during the post-9/11 recession when the city raised property taxes by 18.5 percent. Mr. Bloomberg's popularity tanked, but the city's finances and his popularity bounced back. 
 Unfortunately, without permission from the State Legislature, the mayor and the Council cannot raise most other taxes -- like income taxes -- that would be more equitable. Mr. Bloomberg has said he would prefer to keep paying homeowners a $400 rebate; that would help soften the blow of increased taxes. For that, he will have to trudge up to Albany to ask for permission.
 Albany should not make it harder for city leaders to do their jobs. But that is a subject for another day. In these rough times, it is at least comforting to know that a mayor who knows Wall Street is working to keep the city afloat -- and is willing to take the political hit for it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); APPROVALS (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



741 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Economy Overshadows Bush's Agenda as His Term Winds Down

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With his days in office dwindling, President Bush had scaled back his ambitions even before the Wall Street crisis. Now, economic turmoil has crashed like a wave over his administration, threatening to wash away Mr. Bush's plans for the remainder of his term.
 Barely 10 days ago, White House officials were still talking about the possibility of getting an energy bill through Congress, and just last week the president hosted his counterparts from Panama and Colombia in a bid to persuade lawmakers to pass long-stalled free-trade pacts. 
 By Tuesday, as Mr. Bush's top advisers, including Vice President Dick Cheney, struggled to sell a huge $700 billion bailout plan to a skeptical Congress, their final-days priorities were undergoing a stark reordering. The bailout is likely to overshadow anything else Mr. Bush does during his 119 days left in office. 
 ''The bailout's all that's left,'' said one Republican strategist who has consulted frequently with the administration.
 That was clear enough on Tuesday in Manhattan, as Mr. Bush prepared to deliver his final address to the United NationsGeneral Assembly. Even before the opening bell rang on Wall Street, the market was forcing adjustments to the president's schedule.
 With fellow world leaders questioning Mr. Bush about the administration's response, his aides hastily rewrote a portion of his speech. And Mr. Bush took time from a meeting with Pakistan's new president, an important and uncertain ally in the war on terror, to soothe international nerves by assuring his counterparts the White House had put forth ''a robust plan.''
 Politics, too, has taken a back seat, despite the president's intense desire to help Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, to victory. With Wall Street unraveling, it would look unseemly for a president to hit the fund-raising circuit. 
 So Mr. Bush canceled out-of-town trips to attend two Republican fund-raisers last week; he sent Mr. Cheney instead. Instead of traveling to Florida to raise money on Wednesday, as he had planned, the White House said Mr. Bush would return to Washington.
 Mr. Bush began 2008 with ambitious goals: making his tax cuts permanent; renewing his signature education bill, No Child Left Behind; securing an Arab-Israeli peace deal; thwarting the nuclear programs of North Korea and Iran; negotiating an international pact on global warming; free trade initiatives; legislation on energy and domestic wiretapping, and securing funding for troops in Iraq.
 With the exception of the wiretapping legislation and troop funding, all were stalled or dead even before the economy took its drastic turn. The White House long ago gave up hope on extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts, and Mr. Bush's secretary of education, Margaret Spellings, conceded as early as March that prospects for renewing the education bill were all but dead.
 Now, Mr. Bush's aides speak privately of lowered expectations, and the sense that the president's agenda is often dictated by events beyond his control. Aside from the economy, hurricanes, an unexpected war between Russia and Georgia, and the political demise of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel have all intervened.
 ''He's not through trying to get it over the goal line,'' one senior White House official said, referring to the Arab-Israeli talks, which have been sidelined by Mr. Olmert's troubles. ''But he understands the challenges.''
 And he faces them on many fronts. In many of his initiatives, Mr. Bush seems focused now on keeping processes he started alive, rather than accomplishing the results he set out to achieve. 
 North Korea appears to be undoing its agreement to end its nuclear program, which only three months ago appeared to be a rare breakthrough for the president. On Sunday night, Mr. Bush telephoned China's president, Hu Jintao, to urge more talks with North Korea. But he also talked about the economy.
 Iran, meanwhile, has accelerated its nuclear enrichment program, defying United Nations Security Council demands. Iraq, which once threatened complete disaster, has turned for the better, but the administration is still struggling to complete an agreement to keep more than 130,000 American troops there that they had intended to finish in July.
 Still, Mr. Bush presses on, trying to use the power of his office and his platform on the issues that matter most to him. 
 Last weekend, the president appeared in the Rose Garden with his Colombian counterpart, President Alvaro Uribe, to make a personal push for the free-trade deal. Mr. Bush is especially passionate about the agreement; he views it as a reward for Mr. Uribe, who has fought drug dealers and corruption in his country with a determination the president finds admirable. 
 But instead of fielding questions about trade, Mr. Bush found himself fending off questions about the bailout plan.
 On Thursday, the White House will see another round of high-profile foreign visitors, including the leader of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India, who has been invited because Mr. Bush is trying to persuade Congress to ratify a pact on nuclear power with India. 
 Mr. Bush regards the nuclear pact as ''a legacy issue,'' said Daniel Markey, a former State Department official who worked on the deal. Democrats support the agreement. But with lawmakers consumed by the bailout, and hoping to adjourn quickly to go back to their districts for the fall campaign, the deal's prospects, like much of Mr. Bush's agenda, seemed uncertain at best. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush headed for the Oval Office after a statement on the economy last Thursday. The turmoil has overwhelmed some administration priorities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (64%); WIRETAPPING (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



742 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Enters the Race to Introduce Electric Models

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

 BODY:
After seeming to fall behind in the race for alternative-fuel vehicles, Chrysler said on Tuesday that it would produce an electric car for sale in 2010 and follow it up with a broad lineup of battery-powered vehicles.
 Chrysler, the smallest of Detroit's three automakers, showed off three electric models, including a minivan, a sport utility vehicle and a two-seat sports car. 
 Company executives declined to say which vehicle would go on sale first in the United States.
 ''We're not prepared to say which one it will be, but I can tell you we are developing a full portfolio,'' said Robert L. Nardelli, Chrysler's chairman. ''We're not talking about one car. We're talking about a full line.''
 The ambitious plan surprised analysts, many of whom thought Chrysler lacked the size and financial resources to develop an electric car on its own.
 The automaker has lost money since it was acquired last year by Cerberus Capital Management, and its United States sales have fallen 24 percent this year.
 ''Chrysler's electric car bombshell is an attempt to prove to the public and the media that the company is indeed working on future vehicles and that it still has life left in it,'' said Aaron Bragman of the research firm Global Insight.
 By promising an electric model in showrooms by 2010, Chrysler is competing head-on with General Motors and Nissan Motor of Japan to be the first to market in the United States. Last week, G.M. showed off the production version of its Chevrolet Volt, a four-door sedan powered by a lithium-ion battery pack augmented by a small gasoline engine for recharging.
 But rather than building a new vehicle platform as G.M. has done with the Volt, Chrysler plans to adapt existing models to electric power.
 At a press conference, Chrysler unveiled electric versions of its Town and Country minivan and Jeep Wrangler S.U.V.
 Both models are so-called range-extended vehicles like the Volt, meaning they can travel 40 miles on battery power alone and up to 400 more miles with the assistance of a small gas engine.
 The third model, the Dodge EV, is a rear-wheel-drive sports car with a body built by the European automaker Lotus. The car, which is powered solely by a lithium-ion battery pack, is said to have a driving range of more than 150 miles and can accelerate to 60 miles an hour in less than five seconds.
 Chrysler executives declined to disclose the price of the first model, where it will be built or how soon consumers can expect a full line of electric vehicles. But the electric program, they said, was accelerated by the decision to adapt existing products to the new technology.
 ''This was a very calculated and strategic decision,'' Mr. Nardelli said. ''We decided to put our capital into the technology and not into the platform.''
 Chrysler is working with several battery makers, but will not choose one until it picks the first model. The company is also working with General Electric and the Energy Department on a project to develop smaller battery packs.
 While Chrysler is committed to electric vehicles, Mr. Nardelli said the project would benefit directly from a proposed $25 billion federal loan program for the United States auto industry.
 The loan program was part of legislation passed last year that required a 40 percent improvement in fuel economy by 2020.
 House Democrats are expected to attach money for the loan program to a larger appropriations measure that could come to a vote in Congress this week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Nardelli, Chrysler's chairman, with electric vehicles on Tuesday: a minivan, a Jeep S.U.V., a sports car and a GEM Peapod.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WIECK NEWSPHOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); SPORTS CARS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (90%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



743 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: McCain Aide's Firm Was Paid By Freddie Mac Through August

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the giant mortgage companies at the heart of the credit crisis paid $15,000 a month from the end of 2005 through last month to a firm owned by Senator John McCain's campaign manager, according to two people with direct knowledge of the arrangement.
 The disclosure undercuts a remark by Mr. McCain on Sunday night that the campaign manager, Rick Davis, had had no involvement with the company for the last several years.
 Mr. Davis's firm received the payments from the company, Freddie Mac, until it was taken over by the government this month along with Fannie Mae, the other big mortgage lender whose deteriorating finances helped precipitate the cascading problems on Wall Street, the two people said.
 They said they did not recall Mr. Davis's doing much substantive work for the company in return for the money, other than to speak to a political action committee of high-ranking employees in October 2006 on the approaching midterm Congressional elections. They said Mr. Davis's firm, Davis Manafort, had been kept on the payroll because of his close ties to Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, who by 2006 was widely expected to run again for the White House. 
 Mr. Davis took a leave from Davis Manafort for the presidential campaign, but as an equity holder continues to benefit from its income. No one at Davis Manafort other than Mr. Davis was involved in efforts on Freddie Mac's behalf, the people familiar with the arrangement said.
 A Freddie Mac spokeswoman said the company would not comment. 
 Jill Hazelbaker, a spokeswoman for the McCain campaign, did not dispute the payments to Mr. Davis's firm. But she said that Mr. Davis had stopped taking a salary from the firm by the end of 2006 and that his work did not affect Mr. McCain. 
 ''Senator McCain's positions on policy matters are based upon what he believes to be in the public interest,'' Ms. Hazelbaker said in a written statement.
 The disclosure comes at a time when Mr. McCain and his Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama, are sparring over ties to lobbyists and special interests, seeking political advantage in a campaign being reshaped by the financial crisis and the plan to bail out investment firms.
 Mr. McCain's campaign has been attacking Mr. Obama for ties to former officials of the mortgage giants, both of which have a long history of cultivating Democratic and Republican allies alike to fend off efforts to restrict their activities. Mr. McCain has been running a television advertisement suggesting that Mr. Obama takes advice on housing issues from Franklin D. Raines, former chief executive of Fannie Mae, a contention denied by Mr. Raines and the Obama campaign.
 Freddie Mac's payments of roughly $500,000 to Davis Manafort, the people familiar with the arrangement said, began in late 2005, immediately after Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae disbanded an advocacy coalition that they had set up and hired Mr. Davis to run.
 From 2000 to the end of 2005, Mr. Davis received nearly $2 million as president of the coalition, the Homeownership Alliance, which the companies created to help them oppose new regulations and protect their status as federally chartered companies with implicit government backing. That status let them borrow cheaply, helping to fuel rapid growth but also their increased purchases of the risky mortgage securities that proved to be their downfall.
 The payments that Mr. Davis received for leading the Homeownership Alliance were reported in Monday's issue of The New York Times. On Sunday, in an interview with CNBC and The Times, Mr. McCain responded to a question about that tie between Mr. Davis and the two mortgage companies by saying that he ''has had nothing to do with it since, and I'll be glad to have his record examined by anybody who wants to look at it.''
 Such assertions, along with McCain campaign television advertisements tying Mr. Obama to former Fannie Mae chiefs, have riled current and former officials of the two companies and provoked them to volunteer rebuttals.
 The two people with direct knowledge of Freddie Mac's post-2005 contract with Mr. Davis spoke on condition of anonymity. Four outside consultants -- three Democrats and a Republican, also speaking on condition of anonymity -- said the arrangement was widely known among people involved in Freddie Mac's efforts to influence policy makers.
 As president of the Homeownership Alliance, Mr. Davis received $30,000 to $35,000 a month. He, along with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have characterized the alliance as a coalition of many housing industry and consumer groups to promote homeownership, but numerous current and former officials at both companies say the companies created and bankrolled the operation to combat efforts by competitors to rein in their business. The companies dissolved the group at the end of 2005 as part of cost-cutting in the wake of accounting scandals and, at Freddie Mac, a lobbying scandal that forced out its top Republican lobbyist. 
 On Monday, the McCain campaign attacked The Times for its account of those payments to Mr. Davis, saying the paper was ''150 percent in the tank'' for Mr. Obama. Mr. Davis said that he had worked not for the two companies but for the advocacy group, which included other organizations as well and, he said, was focused only on promoting homeownership.
 After the Homeownership Alliance was dissolved, Mr. Davis asked to stay on a retainer, the people familiar with the deal said. Hollis McLoughlin, who was chief of staff to Richard F. Syron, Freddie Mac's chief executive, arranged for a new contract with Davis Manafort at the reduced rate of $15,000 a month, they said.
 Mr. Syron lost his job in the government takeover this month. Mr. McLoughlin, who through a spokeswoman declined to comment, was a chief of staff to Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady in the administration of the first President Bush and has longstanding Republican ties.
 Mr. Davis's firm was hired as a consultant, not a lobbyist. Davis Manafort in recent years has filed federal lobbying reports for a number of companies, but not Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae.
 The only thing that Freddie Mac officials could recall Mr. Davis's doing for the company was speaking at the October 2006 pre-election forum, attended by midlevel and senior executives who contributed to Freddie PAC, the company's political action committee.
 An electronic invitation to those employees, read to The Times by a Freddie Mac official, said, ''Please join us for political food for thought'' with Paul Begala, a longtime Democratic consultant, ''and Rick Davis, former 2000 presidential campaign manager and current adviser to Senator John McCain.'' Mr. Begala, who was also a paid consultant to Freddie Mac until this month, confirmed that the event had taken place.
 Several top McCain campaign officials have ties to either Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. So do at least two McCain advisers outside the campaign. The lobbying firm of William E. Timmons Sr., the Republican whom Mr. McCain has enlisted to plan his transition to the White House, earned nearly $3 million from Freddie Mac from 2000 until its seizure, federal lobbying records show. Mr. Timmons is the founder of Timmons & Company, one of Washington's best-known lobbying shops. The payments to the firm were first reported Tuesday by Bloomberg News.
 And Mark Buse, chief of staff at Mr. McCain's Senate office, is also a Freddie Mac alumnus. He and his former lobbying employer, ML Strategies, registered to lobby for the company in July 2003, and had received $460,000 by the time the association ended after 2004.
 Mr. McCain and his advisers have argued that whatever connections Mr. Davis and other campaign officials have had to the mortgage giants, the senator has been an advocate of reforming them.
 And they have suggested that Mr. Obama is linked to the companies through donations from their employees and ties to former officials there. Those officials include James A. Johnson, another former chief executive of Fannie Mae, who headed Mr. Obama's vice-presidential search team until stepping aside after coming under criticism for having received a mortgage on preferential terms from the Countrywide Financial Corporation.
 Since his campaign for the Senate, in 2004, Mr. Obama has received about $126,000 in contributions from employees of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, while Mr. McCain has received about $22,000 over the last decade, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Davis remains an equity holder in Davis Manafort. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); FRANK RAINES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



744 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; The Business of Green; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: A New Blog on Energy and the Environment

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
Green Inc. is a new blog from The New York Times devoted to energy and the environment. It's a daily churn of insights, observations and dispatches from that often contentious place where business, politics and sustainability meet.
Here are excerpts from some of the first entries, which can be read in their entirety at greeninc.blogs.nytimes.com.
CLINTON, SUNNYSIDE UP 
Former President Bill Clinton is urging continued investment in clean energy, and is optimistic that the next Congress will pave the way for a cap-and-trade system designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
Speaking to journalists before the annual meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative in New York, Mr. Clinton noted that John McCain and Barack Obama both supported the cap-and-trade concept, and he predicted that the make-or-break venue for a climate change bill next year would probably be the United States Senate.
A meaningful cap-and-trade bill has a ''pretty good'' chance of passing, Mr. Clinton said, although it ''may turn on how many Republicans are in the Senate and what kind of Republicans they are.'' Many experts say that a meaningful cap on carbon dioxide emissions would raise energy prices in the short term -- a prognosis that will soon be tested, following the establishment this week of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a carbon cap-and-trade program among 10 Northeastern states.
But Mr. Clinton emphasized that investments in clean energy and energy efficiency would create jobs. ''We have to do something about climate change in order to bring back the economy,'' he said. KATE GALBRAITH
THE ISSUES IN THE ARCTIC
Whether to drill offshore is a significant subject of debate in the upcoming presidential election. But for the rest of the world, the question -- to drill or not to drill -- is nowhere more pressing than in the Arctic.
Rising energy prices have made the expensive work of discovering and pumping oil and natural gas from such an unforgiving environment more feasible. So has the drastic retreat of Arctic ice cover in recent years, which facilitates drilling and delivery by ship to distant markets.
Not everyone is enthusiastic, of course.
The opening up of the Arctic ''is a perverse situation,'' according to Stephen Singer, the head of the European climate and energy policy unit for the environmental group WWF, formerly the World Wildlife Fund. ''The same resources which are burned -- oil, gas and we should mention coal, as well'' -- are ''the cause of the Arctic to be drillable and despoiled for oil and gas,'' he said.
Oil executives like Helge Lund, chief executive of StatoilHydro, say drilling in areas like the Barents Sea could provide a new way for them to keep supplies flowing to important nearby markets. Mr. Lund also said gas from the Arctic could be used to power European utilities, many of which burn coal, which is worse for the climate.
Some geological estimates suggest the area could contain about a quarter of the world's undiscovered oil and natural gas reserves. But operating conditions create significant technical challenges, raising questions about how much oil and natural gas can be extracted from the Arctic.JAMES KANTER
ENOUGH TREES FOR EVERYONE?
The onward march of biomass, a form of renewable energy that uses residue from sawmills and other forms of woody waste to generate electricity, continues. Last week, Oglethorpe Power Corporation, based in Georgia, announced plans to build at least two biomass plants. Like similar proposed plants, however, the Oglethorpe plans are stirring some concerns in the forest industry. Two 100-megawatt plants (which Oglethorpe says can power up to 60,000 homes each) will gobble up a lot of woody material, which timber companies also need.
''Certainly for various companies in the forest industry who have to purchase timber as their raw material, they're going to see these guys as competition -- and they may very well be,'' said Alva Hopkins, a spokesman for the Georgia Forestry Association.
The use of wood waste, he said, would be fine. And many small landowners have plenty of extra debris that they currently chop up and use for fertilizer. There would be concern, Mr. Hopkins said, should any of these plants develop a need for live trees.
They might.
''For a plant this size we will have to harvest some trees,'' said Mike Price, the chief operating officer of Oglethorpe. He said that new trees would be planted in their place and added that the company would seek to ''maximize the amount of waste wood at the facility.''
KATE GALBRAITH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%); JOB CREATION (50%)

COMPANY: STATOIL ASA (54%)

TICKER: STO (NYSE) (54%); STL (OSL) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) ARCTIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



745 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: In a Crisis, Senatorial Rhetoric Bursts Forth

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Congress took on the $700 billion bailout on Tuesday with what Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, called ''the most palpable sense of national crisis since we gathered here in this building immediately following the 9/11 attacks.''
 That's not exactly how it looked to those trying to follow the testimony of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
 Crisis connotes rolled-up sleeves, pots of coffee and the casting aside of protocol, ceremony and partisan grandstanding. Instead, what viewers saw was Washington as usual: senators pontificating while behind them aides whispered and sent text messages on their BlackBerrys. 
 Congress still doesn't seem to understand that the camera not only adds 10 pounds, it also takes away dignity and self-serving excuses. 
 The question-and-answer part was long, complicated and hard to follow, with lots of technical references to ''reverse auctions,'' financial shorthand (''moral hazard'' and ''naked short'' ) and senatorial oratory (''Charybdis'' is the word Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, used to warn of rash action.) 
 And that only accentuated the long and redundant windup. Almost every member of the Senate Banking Committee wagged a finger at what they described as Wall Street's greed and lax regulatory oversight. Just about all of them voiced passionate concern for the ordinary taxpayer. And every one of them felt the need to say so on television. That loquacity drove cable news programs to cover other events like the stock market and the General Assembly. C-Span 3 stayed the course. 
 Despite all the talk of urgency, all 21 committee members clung to their prerogative of making an opening statement, including one who arrived after the witnesses had already begun giving their testimony -- and it took almost two hours before Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues had a chance to explain their proposal. A few senators did heed an admonition by the chairman, Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, and cut their time short; but not all, perhaps because Mr. Dodd made full indignant use of his allotted eight minutes.
 ''This was no act of God,'' Mr. Dodd said. ''This was not like Hurricane Hike -- Ike, rather. It was created by a combustible combination of private greed and public regulatory neglect, and now we must confront the present crisis.''
 The senators evidently wanted to convince an anxious, angry public that they are just as enraged. ''Does Wall Street owe the American people an apology?'' Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, asked Mr. Bernanke. Mr. Bernanke took him literally and said Wall Street is an ''abstraction.'' But he conceded that ''a lot of people made big mistakes.''
 What none of the senators were ready to do was apologize for their own mistakes. Mr. Dodd, who has received more contributions from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's political action committees and employees ($133,900 since 1989) than any other senator, didn't mention lapses in Congressional oversight. Instead, he said he began warning Mr. Bernanke many months ago about the housing crisis, blaming absentee regulators and ''reckless, careless and sometimes unscrupulous actors in the mortgage lending industry.''
 Senator Elizabeth Dole, Republican of North Carolina, used her time to take aim at ''Congressional apologists'' for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac who blocked legislation she and other Republicans had proposed to rein them in. She said an ''army of lobbyists'' had spent as much as $100 million to thwart reform efforts. ''As we know, one of my committee colleagues proclaimed in April 2005 that Fannie and Freddie have done, and I quote, 'a very, very good job.' '' She was referring to Mr. Schumer.
 The blame game, however, is already being played and replayed on the campaign trail. Viewers concerned about the economic crisis are more likely to reward unity and swift, decisive action. Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, said the bailout plan made him feel ''frightful to the point of almost panic.'' 
 The hearing wasn't exactly reassuring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); EVAN BAYH (74%); SHERROD BROWN (59%); HENRY PAULSON (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



746 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Wooing Clinton Backers For Obama's Benefit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Hassan Nemazee was working the phone up until just a few hours before Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton swept into his elegant apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan on Monday evening.
 Mr. Nemazee had only been given two weeks' notice to put together a fund-raiser for Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign featuring Mrs. Clinton, and was hunting for hefty checks at an inauspicious time, in the middle of a Wall Street meltdown. He was also plying what has been at times an exceedingly difficult population: former supporters of Mrs. Clinton.
 Anyone who happened to drop by Mr. Nemazee's office overlooking Central Park in the last two weeks would have caught a glimpse of the delicate art of persuasion in big-money political fund-raising.
 ''I'm calling because I'm hosting a dinner with Hillary Clinton but it's for the Obama campaign,'' Mr. Nemazee, 58, said in a typical call to a former Clinton donor. ''I was hoping I could convince you and your wife to attend and be supportive.'' 
 There are at least some signs that money from former Clinton backers is starting to pick up for the Obama campaign. Christopher Korge, like Mr. Nemazee a former Clinton national finance chairman, hosted an event at his home in Miami last week that, along with another event at a nearby hotel, helped bring in more than $5 million. 
 But that does not mean that finding people who could write a check for $28,500 -- the ticket price per couple for the intimate dinner on Monday at Mr. Nemazee's Park Avenue apartment -- was particularly easy, especially among a New York donor base heavily dependent upon the fortunes of Wall Street.
 The event, hosted by Mr. Nemazee and his wife, Sheila, benefited the Obama Victory Fund, the joint fund-raising committee for the Obama campaign and the Democratic National Committee. 
 Mr. Nemazee, a multimillionaire who is chairman of Nemazee Capital, a private equity firm, has given more than $450,000 over the years, mostly to Democrats, and entertained President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and Senator John Kerry, among others, at his home. But he was appealing to big donors at a time when many have already been hit up repeatedly and have reached their individual contribution limits under campaign finance laws. 
 He also found himself up against the unexpected obstacle of the financial crisis and was forced to scramble last week when four couples he had originally confirmed for his dinner, all involved in finance, suddenly backed out, costing his event more than $100,000. 
 Most major fund-raising events are typically run in a pyramid fashion, with the burden for raising the cash split among an array of chairmen who go out and find people who can commit to gathering certain sums. These are the people who then actually solicit potential donors.
 But because of the short notice, Mr. Nemazee wound up doing the brunt of the ''asks'' himself. He scrawled on a piece of paper the names of some 70 people, and then he simply went down the list, often consulting a thick book that he kept by the telephone -- a printout of the contents of his contacts on his computer that serves as his fund-raising bible. 
 Rejections were usually in the form of an offered-up excuse about a previous engagement. Several had tables for opening night festivities at the Metropolitan Opera; others were going to be out of the country; a few were frank, saying that they were simply tapped out. Mr. Nemazee said he knew to avoid former Clinton supporters who would not even entertain the notion of giving to Mr. Obama.
 About a week and a half ago, Mr. Nemazee got on the phone to convince Sara Lee Schupf, the heiress to the Sara Lee Corporation family fortune who had supported Mrs. Clinton in the primary. 
 After some initial pleasantries, Mr. Nemazee began to probe and asked if she had given any thought to his event. Mr. Nemazee listened for a while, fiddling with some Greek worry beads on his desk, glancing off at the corner of his office where some photographs of him with President Clinton and Mrs. Clinton were on display. Farther along the wall of windows in his office were some books, among them a three-ring binder labeled ''Ambassadorial Seminar.'' 
 Mr. Nemazee was chosen in 1998 by Mr. Clinton to be ambassador to Argentina but his nomination was sent back to the White House by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee after a scathing article in Forbes magazine scrutinized his business dealings and Republicans questioned his qualifications. Mr. Nemazee said the accusations against him were baseless and pointed to a subsequent statement from Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the ranking Democrat on the committee, who said he would have voted for him.
 On the phone, Ms. Schupf was clearly balking. Mr. Nemazee explained that the Obama campaign, despite its record-breaking fund-raising, urgently needed funds. 
 ''While money by itself doesn't ensure a win, I can assure you, not having the resources will ensure that you don't win,'' Mr. Nemazee said.
 More silence.
 Mr. Nemazee tried to make the point that contributions of this size made a difference. 
 And then this: ''Clearly my choice in this matter was that Hillary would be the nominee and my second choice was that Hillary would be part of the under part of the ticket. I'm still doing what I can do to have a Democrat in the White House.''
 After more than 20 minutes, Mr. Nemazee finally said, ''So I can count on you, Sara?''
 Ms. Schupf said later that she had not been planning on giving any money to Mr. Obama, whom she described as ''a bit more about lofty ideas than I am.'' But she said that Mr. McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his vice-presidential nominee had left her fearful and that she trusted Mr. Nemazee's advice.
 ''It wasn't so much in support of Obama,'' she said. ''It's really to support a Democrat in the presidency.''
 Mr. Nemazee, whose father was a shipping magnate who later became a diplomat for Iran in Washington, where Mr. Nemazee grew up, got his start in fund-raising in the 1990s when a mutual friend introduced him to Mr. Gore. Soon he was raising money for the Clinton-Gore campaign.
 By Monday, Mr. Nemazee had a head count of 20 people for the Clinton event, a far cry from the more than 30 he had been hoping for. But he managed to make up for it in part by picking up some checks from some former Clinton backers who did not attend, including Terry McAuliffe, the former Clinton campaign chairman, bringing Mr. Nemazee's two-week total to more than $400,000. 
 Even late in the day Monday, as waiters bustled about setting two round tables in the Nemazees' dining room and their personal chef was starting preparations for a Peking duck dinner, Mr. Nemazee was still making calls from his office. 
 ''Dennis, Hassan,'' he said, leaving a message for the husband of one of his prospects. ''I'm seeing if Carol was coming to the event tonight. I don't want to push you. Whatever you can do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hassan Nemazee had just two weeks to pull together a dinner featuring Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on Monday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); TICKET SALES (65%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



747 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 533 words

 BODY:
CONGRESSIONAL GRILLING Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, left, faced the Senate Banking Committee in an effort to persuade reluctant lawmakers to accept a vast bailout plan. 
 As the Bush administration stepped up the hard sell on its initiative, conservative House Republicans expressed alarm at what they saw as a betrayal of free-market principles. [A24.] 
 Viewers watching the testimony on TV saw Washington as usual: senators pontificating while aides whispered and sent text messages. The TV Watch: Alessandra Stanley [A24.] 
 Most members of Congress have no expertise in mortgage finance, so a successful bailout plan depends on keeping the debate tightly focused. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [C1.]
 PAYCHECK DEBATE Congressional proposals to limit executive pay mirror a public outcry over the prospect of Wall Street titans walking away with riches while taxpayers pick up the tab. [A1.]
 FRESH CAPITAL Berkshire Hathaway, Warren E. Buffett's conglomerate, will invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs, a huge vote of confidence for one of the survivors of the credit crisis. [A1.]
 F.B.I. INQUIRY The Federal Bureau of Investigation is reported to have opened investigations into possible fraud involving the four giant corporations at the center of the recent turmoil. [C1.]
 WORKERS' LAMENT The employees who made their careers on Wall Street view the market turmoil with a mix of bitterness, sorrow and resignation. [C1.]
 BLACK MARKET Police departments in California are seeing a rash of thefts involving solar panels, which are being sold back to unwitting homeowners. [C1.]
 STALLED PLANS The proposed bailout to calm the market turmoil is likely to overshadow anything else President Bush does in the remainder of his term. [A25.] 
 ENTERING THE RACE Chrysler joined the effort to manufacture electric cars, unveiling three models and promising to put one of them on sale in 2010. [C4.]
 GMAC SELLS UNIT A division of Brookfield Asset Management said it was buying the real estate arm of GMAC Financial Services for undisclosed terms. [C4.]
 PC ON A PHONE T-Mobile unveiled the G1, a $179 mobile phone that harnesses Google's Android software to make the Internet easy to use while on the go. [C4.]
 REINVENTION Cisco Systems, the technology giant, is trying to break out of the data center by providing a common set of tools that office workers can use to make calls, send e-mails, hold Web conferences and send instant messages. [C6.]
 EARLY CHRISTMAS With the economy in fragile shape, sellers of holiday goods and services are seeking to make sales sooner. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.]
 MORE ACQUISITIONS Nomura, a brokerage firm in Japan, said it would buy the European and Middle Eastern operations of Lehman Brothers. [C11.] 
 HELPLESS As Washington politicians plan the financial bailout, small institutions, governments and charities -- from Australia to Norway -- are watching closely, and usually helplessly. [C12.] 
 STOCKS TUMBLE It looked like a relatively quiet day on Wall Street, but investors lost their nerve, and by the market close, the Dow Jones industrials were down 161.52 points. [C13.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BAILOUT BONUSES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (75%); INSTANT MESSAGING (75%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); CHRISTMAS (60%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%); BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%); BAMA (AMS) (53%); BAM.A (TSX) (53%); BAM (NYSE) (53%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (72%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



748 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Challenge Lack of Help Aimed At U.S. Homeowners

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Reporting was contributed by Sheryl Gay Stolberg in Washington and Steven Lee Myers in New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House waged a multifront campaign Tuesday to persuade Congress to accept its vast economic bailout plan, though many in Congress, still unhappy with what they were hearing, continued to push for changes that would provide stronger protection for taxpayers and impose tougher terms on financial institutions.
 President Bush told world leaders that the United States had taken ''bold steps'' to deal with the financial crisis, while Vice President Dick Cheney and other top officials went to Capitol Hill to address lawmakers. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, faced five hours of grilling by skeptical, angry members of the Senate Banking Committee.
 But with just six weeks before an election, Congress and the administration were negotiating intensely behind the scenes to resolve major sticking points in the plan, and some of the drama was intended for hometown audiences. 
 House Republicans seemed the least receptive of all, and by the end of the day, there was no clear road map.
 In blunt terms, Mr. Bernanke warned the senators that if they failed to pass the $700 billion plan, they risked causing a recession, increasing joblessness and pushing more homes into foreclosure. 
 ''This will be a major drag on the U.S. economy and greatly impede the ability of the economy to recover,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 The lawmakers objected strenuously to the broad authority Mr. Paulson was requesting, the lack of additional steps to help homeowners avoid foreclosure and the absence of any demands for ownership stakes in the banks that would be helped. 
 Even Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee and one of the most vocal critics of the proposal, said he expected Congress and the White House to eventually reach a deal.
 ''I think Congress will react positively at the end of the day,'' he said. ''But in what form, we're not sure yet.''
 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the Senate majority leader; Harry Reid of Nevada; and other Democratic leaders met Tuesday afternoon to form a strategy for bringing the bailout legislation to the floors of both chambers later this week.
 Mr. Cheney led a delegation from the White House, including the chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, and the budget director, Jim Nussle, to meet with House Republicans on Tuesday morning. But the visit did little to quiet a rising chorus of doubts. 
 ''My sense is that the meeting did not abate the growing discontent,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, who opposes the plan.
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, said that there seemed to be little appetite for the bailout among his conference. 
 Still, he said that swift action was needed and he remained committed to a deal. 
 To help win some votes, Mr. Paulson agreed to speak to House Republicans on Wednesday morning, after which he and Mr. Bernanke must give a repeat performance before the House Financial Services Committee, an audience that could prove even more hostile than the Senate banking panel.
 On Tuesday, Mr. Paulson rushed from the banking committee hearing to meet with Republicans at their weekly lunch. He faced tough questioning, but many lawmakers emerged from the meeting expressing support.
 ''We're anxious to act, and to act quickly, to restore confidence in the markets and in our country,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said after the meeting.
 Democrats, however, grew concerned that a lack of Republican support, particularly in the House, could leave them in an undesired alliance with the Bush administration.
 Mr. Reid, at a news conference, said Democrats were waiting for Republicans to signal that they had enough votes to support the bailout. ''We have all heard what went on over in the House today,'' Mr. Reid said. ''It was a scene of disarray. So we need the Republicans to start producing some votes for us.''
 Before that happens, however, lawmakers were waiting to see a final version of the plan. Democrats were pushing hardest for provisions that would require the Treasury to obtain warrants that would convert into equity in the companies helped and limits on the salaries of executives whose firms participate in the bailout.
 Both presidential candidates, Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain, have called for such limits, as has Mr. Shelby, making it more likely that Treasury will have to find some form of compromise on the issue.
 ''The party is over for this compensation for C.E.O.'s who take golden parachutes as they drive their companies into the ground,'' Ms. Pelosi said. 
 The White House is eager for a deal on the plan, recognizing that markets around the world are fluctuating daily, depending on how investors assess the United States' response to the crisis.
 In his speech to the United Nations, Mr. Bush said, ''I can assure you that my administration and our Congress are working together to quickly pass legislation approving this strategy.'' He added, ''And I'm confident we will act in the urgent time frame required.''
 Along with Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bolten, Mr. Bush dispatched Keith B. Hennessey, the director of Mr. Bush's National Economic Council, to Capitol Hill.
 Tony Fratto, Mr. Bush's deputy press secretary, told reporters that it was imperative that Congress pass a bill this week. Asked what would happen if Congress fails to act this week, he said, ''You should think of that as unthinkable.''
 Reflecting their frustration, and perhaps the narrowness of their options, the lawmakers peppered Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke with questions ranging from whether the rescue would work to whether it would end up bailing out Wall Street on the backs of taxpayers.
 ''I get some sense that we're flying by the seat of our pants,'' said Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey. ''You want to come in strong and have the cavalry be there, but you're not quite sure what the cavalry does once it arrives. And that's part of my concern.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, proposed limiting financing to $150 billion, and budgeting more in three months, after its progress could be assessed. 
 Several senators said they thought the best way to protect taxpayers was by requiring the Treasury Department to take warrants, which are instruments that are convertible into shares, as it did in its rescue of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the American International Group. But Mr. Paulson said that could limit participation in the program, especially if companies decided to hold onto their troubled assets rather than cede some control to the Treasury Department. If that happened, Mr. Paulson said, the program would not do enough to get the market moving again.
 But he and Mr. Bernanke did not do much to clear up confusion about how the bailout plan would work in practice. Mr. Bernanke, an economist, gave a tutorial on valuation of assets, distinguishing between those sold at fire-sale prices -- what a portfolio would sell for if the cash were needed immediately -- and those at hold-to-maturity prices, or what the same portfolio would fetch on the assumption that the underlying debt would be repaid.
 To unclog the market, he said, the government would have to determine the hold-to-maturity price for assets with no other buyers. ''Just as you sell a painting at Sotheby's, until you sell it, nobody knows what it is worth,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 He described a system of reverse auctions, in which the Treasury would name a price it was willing to pay, and the banks would decide whether to sell. Mr. Paulson said the government would also use other methods, depending on the assets involved, and was open to experimentation. Both officials pleaded with Congress not to tie the government's hands by writing any particular sales method into the bailout legislation.
 House Democrats were also reviving a push to grant bankruptcy judges the authority to modify the terms of mortgages on primary residences to lower payments for strapped borrowers.
 Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, also testified and said there were two major holes in the current rules: oversight of investment banks and of the market for credit default swaps, which, he noted had doubled in size since 2006, to $58 trillion.
 None of the senators who listened to Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke disputed the grim possibilities if Congress should do nothing, but it was clear they were hearing from angry constituents.
 Senator Jim Bunning, a Kentucky Republican who is also one of the plan's fiercest critics, said it would do nothing to stem the slide in housing prices or help people pay their mortgages. He said it was using taxpayer dollars to ''prop up and clean up the balance sheets of Wall Street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Christopher J. Dodd listens to opening statements to the Senate Banking Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Senator Elizabeth Dole, Republican of North Carolina, is a member of the banking committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, proposed limiting funding to $150 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FORECLOSURE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); DICK CHENEY (78%); BEN BERNANKE (78%); RICHARD SHELBY (78%); JIM NUSSLE (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); HARRY REID (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



749 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: One Argument for the Bailout

BYLINE: By ROB COX and JOHN FOLEY

 BODY:
One Argument for the Bailout 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. says his Troubled Asset Relief Program isn't a bailout of Wall Street. And of course it shouldn't be. But even if it were, a number-cruncher might just be able to justify it. States where the financial services industry is most significant have paid far more in federal taxes for years than they have received in government largess, effectively subsidizing other states. The argument would be that it's payback time. 
 It would hardly win many friends, particularly in an election year, for highly paid investment bankers and their brethren to argue that the average American taxpayer owes them anything. Still, here's how the case might be made. 
 Among the states with the largest number of Wall Street employees are New York, New Jersey, the hedge fund haven of Connecticut, Massachusetts (fund management), Illinois -- home to Chicago's exchanges -- and California, the West Coast base for venture capital and investment.
 In 2005, the last year for which the Tax Foundation ran the numbers, every dollar taxpayers in these states sent back to Washington was echoed by government spending in their states equivalent to just 74 cents. In total, they handed over some $134 billion more than the Feds spent on them in 2005 alone. 
 Over, say, five years, that would nearly add up to Mr. Paulson's $700 billion rescue -- and some of that money would come from taxpayers in those states anyway. 
 Now, the Treasury boss would doom his idea if he presented this to taxpayers in states like Alaska, Alabama and Mississippi, asking them to dig deep to keep fund managers in their Beacon Hill townhouses and bankers in their Greenwich McMansions. But that logic would be no worse than much of what Washinton dispenses, and he could make a case if he had to.
 For Job Seekers, Boutiques May Do
 Small must seem beautiful for merger bankers right now. Consider those at Lehman Brothers who lost their jobs because of commercial real estate trades about which they had little clue. For them, it must be tempting to slip out of the pinstripe confines of a bulge-bracket firms like Lehman's or Merrill and into the Gucci-like jacquard stitching of a boutique, as specialist advisory firms are known. 
 When big banks are brought low, boutiques like Greenhill, Moelis & Company and Perella Weinberg start to look promising. Their people aren't hostage to the fortunes of leveraged loan desks or reckless in-house traders. They can pay individuals directly for performance more easily. Moreover, boutiques, unlike universal banks, let their top advisers do just that -- impart advice -- rather than cross-sell research or financing.
 The boutiques are also hiring. Often they can't compete with the bulge-bracket firms that wield big balance sheets for trading and lending, because they can't afford comparable year-end bonuses and share options for new hires. Lehman's former employees have neither, making them comparatively cheap. Predators can simply offer some options, and a slab of the revenue they bring in. That might be as much as 50 percent at relative start-ups like Moelis. 
 Boutiques, though, aren't the perfect home for all unemployed bankers. A bulging Rolodex is a prerequisite. But so is a big bank account. The lumpy nature of the mergers business means it sometimes helps bankers to have plenty of cash to see them through the troughs. Moreover, M&A houses can afford to be picky about hiring. Low overheads make revenue growth an opportunity, not a necessity. While larger firms like Rothschild and Lazard may snap up entire teams from Lehman or elsewhere, others will settle for a few hand-picked individuals.
 There are success stories -- think of the former Barings bankers who joined the New York-based Greenhill boutique to set up its London office. But such opportunities are rare. Besides, they all came from a time when merger advisers made their fortunes on their wits, rather than their employers' balance sheets. Lehman's alumni may have to work harder to make their name.
 ROB COX and JOHN FOLEY 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers on Wall Street last Wednesday. Some, pushed out at the big merger banks, may now consider boutique firms attractive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BULGE BRACKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); DISMISSALS (68%); LAYOFFS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



750 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Asks All Agencies For Cutbacks Over 2 Years

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
With an eye on Wall Street's turmoil and New York City's fragile economy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ordered city agencies on Tuesday to cut spending by about $500 million this year and $1 billion next year.
 The cuts are to be made across the board, affecting agencies including the Police Department, which must cut costs by $95 million this year, and the school system, which needs to trim $185 million. 
 Over all, the reductions represent 2.5 percent of the agencies' budgets this year and 5 percent next year. 
 The midyear budget cuts are intended to provide a financial cushion should the city's tax revenue, which is heavily dependent on Wall Street's profits, drop further, as many expect. 
 The timing of the announcement suggests that Mr. Bloomberg may be seeking to soften the political fallout of a possible 7 percent property tax increase, which he disclosed on Monday. The spending cuts, aides said, showed that everyone, including government, will feel the pain from a slowing economy. 
 So far, the city expects tax revenue to fall by 6 percent during the 2009 fiscal year, which began in July. That projection was made before a worldwide financial crisis erupted, forcing Lehman Brothers, a major employer in New York City, to file for bankruptcy last week.
 The 2009 budget remains balanced, but Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor for operations, said that ''after the events of recent weeks, it's the equivalent of putting your head in the sand to hope the projections will hold.''
 ''Taking no action would border on irresponsibility,'' he added.
 Mark Page, the director of the city's Office of Management and Budget, sent out a letter to city agencies on Tuesday asking them to find ways to achieve the cuts for the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years by early October. 
 The City Council will vote to approve or modify the cuts in November. In the past, the Council has largely taken the mayor's recommendations in midyear budget negotiations, according to members of the mayor's staff. Since there is a citywide election in 2009, there may be greater opposition to cuts this time. 
 The 2.5 percent reduction that the mayor is seeking this year would translate into cuts of $11.9 million from the Department of Transportation, $7.8 million from the Department of Homeless Services and $6.7 million from the parks department. The mayor has also ordered the Fire Department to cut $33.8 million, which could force some firehouses to close, mayoral aides said. 
 Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn defended the cuts on Tuesday, saying, ''Obviously for all of us in city government, keeping our streets safe is one of our highest priorities, keeping services going for seniors is a key priority, and schools and health care.'' 
 She added: ''But we need to look at everything and keep everything on the table at a time like this.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has sought to cut the city's budget in the middle of the year before, at rates ranging from 1.5 percent to 5 percent. The current budget has already been cut twice, and the latest reductions could prove contentious, especially when it comes to the city's schools. 
 After a tough budget negotiation in June, the City Council voted to restore $120 million in cuts to the Department of Education this year. Now, Mr. Bloomberg is demanding that the school system cut spending by $185 million.
 ''We just went through this battle,'' said Councilwoman Melinda Katz, a Queens Democrat. ''Now we are back to Square 1. Actually, we are back below Square 1 and it seems very disappointing.''
 After learning of the cuts, Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, said in a statement that ''it is imperative that we immunize kids through these tough times and keep cuts away from the classroom.'' 
 Advocates fear that the spending reductions could undo the progress made by agencies like the Administration for Children's Services, which more than doubled the number of caseworkers assigned to child protective services since 2005. 
 ''You start to wonder when it is that these cuts might start reaching into the heart of these services that have done so much to make sure no child slips through the cracks,'' said Andrew White, director of the Center for New York City Affairs at the New School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TAX LAW (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



751 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Wind Farm Site Considered 10 Miles From Queens Shore

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Has the economic or political climate changed for wind power on Long Island? The Long Island Power Authority hopes so.
 A year after the authority withdrew its proposal to build an $800 million offshore wind farm near Jones Beach, it said Tuesday that it would look into building a potentially larger wind farm 10 miles off the south shore of Queens. 
 The authority will work with Con Edison, which has never before proposed a wind-power project, to study the economic feasibility over the next few months. If they decide it makes sense to build an offshore wind farm, the utilities would ask builders for proposals, the authority said. The project would take several years to plan, finance and complete.
 ''If this is doable, we and Con Edison can share the cost and the power,'' said Kevin S. Law, the authority's chief executive, who also serves on Gov. David A. Paterson's renewable energy task force. ''If we could make this big enough, we could send power east and west.''
 The bulk of the wind turbines in New York have been installed upstate, and many have received state and federal subsidies. Because of congestion in the state's electrical grid, it is economically impractical to transport much of that power south to New York City and Long Island.
 Building wind turbines on Long Island is another option, but there is little suitable open space. Long Island Sound was considered, but it was deemed not windy enough, Mr. Law said.
 The power authority's announcement, which was first reported by Newsday, comes a month after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the city would ask industry experts to submit ideas for putting turbines off New York's shores and atop its skyscrapers. 
 Industry experts say offshore wind farms are rare in North America because of the difficulty of finding suitable locations, the cost of running transmission lines to shore, and the thicket of environmental regulations. Shipping lanes also need to be considered, as well as a shortage of equipment available to plant turbines in deep water.
 Nearby residents often object to offshore turbines because of aesthetic concerns, as was the case with the Jones Beach proposal, which also exceeded initial cost estimates.
 Still, Governor Paterson said in a statement on Tuesday that a big offshore wind farm would create new jobs and more renewable energy at a time of rising fuel prices.
 Speaking later Tuesday, he suggested that the project could be eligible for state subsidies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (98%); WIND POWER PLANTS (95%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (91%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



752 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Lennar Loss Is Narrowed As Revenue Slides 53%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Lennar Corporation, one of the nation's largest home builders, said Tuesday its quarterly loss narrowed sharply as it cut costs, but revenue fell by more than half amid the prolonged housing slump. 
 The company's loss for the quarter was $89 million, or 56 cents a share, compared with a loss of $513.9 million, or $3.25 a share a year earlier.
 Revenue in the period, which ended Aug. 31 and was the third quarter of Lennar's fiscal year, fell 53 percent, to $1.11 billion from $2.34 billion.
 Completed sales of homes fell 49 percent in the quarter, and the average sale price of homes fell 9 percent.
 ''While we expected the housing market to remain constrained throughout the third quarter, the weakness in the market actually accelerated as a result of increased foreclosures, weakened consumer confidence and tightened mortgage lending standards,'' the chief executive, Stuart A. Miller, said in a statement.
 Mr. Miller said that the housing stimulus bill enacted in July, which included a temporary $7,500 tax credit for first-time home buyers, failed to stabilize the decline in home prices. He said more government intervention was needed.
 Lennar has home-building operations in 14 states, including California and Florida, the hardest-hit housing markets.
 During the quarter, Lennar delivered 3,791 homes, down from 7,636 in the comparable period last year. The sharpest drop occurred in Western markets.
 The average sale price of homes delivered fell to $270,000 as the builder cut prices or offered incentives, like discounts matching the $7,500 tax credit for first-time buyers.
 In all, Lennar offered sales incentives amounting to $45,900 a home delivered during the quarter. That compares with incentives valued at $46,000 a home delivered a year earlier. New orders totaled 3,387 homes, down 42 percent from last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES & SELLING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (98%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (98%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (98%)

PERSON: STUART A MILLER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



753 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would End Coastal Oil Drilling Ban

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
House Democrats are preparing a stopgap spending measure that would eliminate a 26-year-old ban on coastal oil drilling, avoiding a showdown with Republicans over domestic energy production that could have shut down the government. 
 Senior Democrats said the measure would finance the government at current levels through March 6, passing major spending decisions to the next president. If approved, the spending measure may make it unnecessary for Congress to return for a lame-duck session after the November elections.
 Republicans have challenged Democrats for months over their opposition to opening up more of the coastline to drilling given rising gasoline prices, and the decision to drop the drilling ban represents a Republican victory.
 Eliminating the drilling restrictions will have no immediate consequences since leasing would take place through a long Interior Department process. But it will leave the future of offshore drilling to the next administration.
 ''That will mean, very frankly, this next election will decide what our drilling policy is going to be,'' said Representative David R. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who is the chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
 Democrats had hoped to relax the ban, allowing drilling 50 miles or more off the coast if states give consent, but the White House threatened a veto over that provision and a push to extend unemployment benefits.
 Republicans hailed the decision as a major step forward on domestic energy production. ''This is huge victory for hardworking Americans and a monumental defeat for the radical left,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, the Texas Republican who is the chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee.
 Environmental groups pledged to push to reinstate the ban next year, arguing that more coastal drilling will not lower gas prices. But officials of the Sierra Club cautioned in a statement that the expiration of the ban as of Oct. 1 ''does temporarily leave the fate of our fragile coasts in the hands of the Minerals Management Service.'' The organization said it would keep watch over developments to ''ensure that the Bush administration doesn't give away the store before they leave town.''
 For more than two decades, lawmakers from Florida and states on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts had fought for a ban on offshore leasing and drilling in annual spending measures approved by Congress.
 Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate, has eased his longstanding opposition to more offshore drilling, calling for increased production from the Outer Continental Shelf. Senator Barack Obama, his Democratic opponent, has said he would consider limited new offshore drilling in conjunction with alternative energy initiatives. 
 Mr. Obey said the spending package, which could be considered as soon as Wednesday, would also include more than $23 billion in disaster assistance, would double home heating subsidies and would provide $25 billion in loan guarantees for the domestic auto industry. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative David R. Obey said ''this next election will decide'' our drilling policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE ROSE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); VETO (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: DAVE OBEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



754 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Report Seeks Engagement With Muslims By Diplomacy

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
After 18 months spent examining the deteriorating relations between the United States and the Muslim world during the Bush administration, a diverse group of American leaders will release a report in Washington on Wednesday calling for an overhaul of American strategy to reverse the spread of terrorism and extremism.
 The report recommends more diplomatic engagement, even with Iran and other adversaries, and a major investment in economic development in Muslim countries to create jobs for alienated youth. It calls on the next president to use his Inaugural Address to signal a shift in approach, to immediately renounce the use of torture, and to appoint a special envoy within the first three months to jump-start negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. 
 The report, ''Changing Course: A New Direction for U.S. Relations with the Muslim World,'' was produced by 34 leaders drawn from religious, business, military, foreign policy, academic, foundation and nonprofit circles. The group included Democrats like Madeleine K. Albright, who was secretary of state under President Bill Clinton, and two former Republican congressmen, Vin Weber and Steve Bartlett. 
 It also included Thomas Dine, a former executive director of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, and Ingrid Mattson, president of the Islamic Society of North America. One-third of the group were Muslim Americans. The members were selected by the sponsoring organizations, Search for Common Ground and the Consensus Building Institute, which both promote nonviolent conflict resolution. 
 ''I came into it somewhat skeptical we could come to agreement,'' Mr. Weber, who is now chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy, said in an interview. ''I supported the invasion of Iraq, and that has clearly been a very negative thing for the perceptions of America in the Muslim world.''
 As the group pored over polls of people in various Muslim countries, they concluded that the negative perceptions were generated more by American policies than by Muslim religious or cultural beliefs. If policies shift, perceptions are likely to change, too, the report says.
 Dalia Mogahed, executive director of the Gallup Center for Muslim Studies, said polls showed that people in Muslim countries feel ''disrespected'' by the United States, a sentiment that intensified with the invasion of Iraq and the photographs from Abu Ghraib prison showing detainees tortured and humiliated. 
 Ms. Mogahed said, ''People have told us they admire our democratic values, but there's this gap between the values people admire and the perceived treatment of Muslims.'' 
 Ms. Albright said in an interview: ''We're not involved in a clash of civilizations or conflicting religious beliefs. There are policies and actions that are at the root of it, and in some cases they are our policies and in some cases theirs.''
 The group's four basic recommendations are to rely on diplomacy as the ''primary tool,'' promote better governance in authoritarian Muslim countries that are American allies like Saudi Arabia and Egypt, help create jobs and economic development in Muslim countries, and foster exchange programs to educate people in the Muslim world about the United States, and vice versa. 
 ''The urgency is quite great,'' Mr. Weber said. ''The Bush administration is held in low regard in the Muslim world, and unfortunately that's led to America being held in low regard.'' 
 The McCain and Obama campaigns have been briefed on the report's recommendations, and both were receptive, said Mr. Weber and other members of the group. There is a briefing on Wednesday for the House Foreign Affairs Committee and members of Congress, and a public release at the National Press Club in Washington. 
 Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the Republican leader of the Foreign Relations Committee, has sent the report to his colleagues with a letter saying it contains ''constructive recommendations on how we can approach this pressing concern in a bipartisan framework.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008



755 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Deal Seen as Sign of Confidence

BYLINE: By BEN WHITE

 BODY:
EDITORS' NOTE APPENDED
Warren E. Buffett, the country's most famous investor and one of the world's richest men, announced on Tuesday that he would invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs, the embattled Wall Street titan, in a move that could bolster confidence in the financial markets.
Until now, Mr. Buffett, who has navigated the stock market with legendary prowess, has largely refrained from investing in the stricken financial industry, saying repeatedly that things could get worse.
Thousands of people on and off Wall Street follow Mr. Buffett's moves, so his decision to invest in Goldman immediately heartened investors. 
''Buffett is saying he's confident,'' said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
Mr. Buffett's conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway, unveiled the move only days after Goldman, long the premier investment house on Wall Street, embarked on a radical plan to transform itself into a traditional bank to ensure its survival. Goldman, which examined various options over the last week as its shares tumbled and some clients abandoned the firm, also said Tuesday it would sell at least $2.5 billion of common stock to the public.
Since credit markets tightened more than a year ago, Mr. Buffett had stayed his hand even as other investors, including government-controlled funds from the Middle East and Asia, poured money into American financial companies like Citigroup and Merrill Lynch, only to see their investments plunge in value.
Such wariness is a hallmark of Mr. Buffett's investing style, and many on Wall Street have wondered when he might jump in. Over the last four decades, he has built Berkshire, which is based in Omaha, into one of the world's largest and most successful insurers. Along the way, he has also assembled a stable of holdings in widely known companies like Coca-Cola and the Washington Post Company, and more recently has increased his stakes in energy concerns and railroads.
On Wednesday, in an interview on CNBC, Mr. Buffett said, ''I don't try to time things, but I do try to price things.''
''We've done business with them for years, with Goldman,'' he said, ''and the price was right, the terms were right, the people were right. I decided to write a check.''
Mr. Buffett, who plans to donate the vast majority of his fortune to charity, is known for his folksy guidelines for proper corporate governance and his investment expertise. His annual meetings are fondly referred to as the Woodstock of American capitalism by his many acolytes.
But Mr. Buffett, 78, has also learned from past mistakes in the financial sector. For instance, Berkshire's 1998 acquisition of General Re, the insurance company, was marred by a portfolio of complex derivative securities and state and federal investigations into reinsurance policies written by the company. Salomon Brothers, the Wall Street firm that Mr. Buffett was pressed by the government to lead in the early 1990s amid a trading scandal, was another taxing experience.
But Goldman is a classic Buffett play: It is a blue-chip institution, with a premier brand and long, successful history, that has been beaten down in the stock market, and one that he is investing in on very favorable terms. Goldman's share price has fallen nearly 50 percent from its peak of $247.92 less than a year ago.
Mr. Buffett, in the statement, called Goldman Sachs an exceptional institution.
''It has an unrivaled global franchise,'' Mr. Buffett said, ''a proven and deep management team and the intellectual and financial capital to continue its track record of outperformance.''
He told CNBC that he would never have made the Goldman investment if he did not think that lawmakers would pass a bill to rescue the financial system. He said the $700 billion bailout proposal ''the right thing'' to do, calling the current crisis an ''economic Pearl Harbor.''
''Unfortunately, the economy is a little like a bathtub,'' Mr. Buffett said in the interview. ''You can't have cold water in the front and hot water in the back. And what was happening on Wall Street was going to immerse that bathtub very, very quickly in terms of business.''
Still, Mr. Buffett is not taking big risks based on the structure of the investment.
Berkshire Hathaway will receive perpetual preferred shares in Goldman, which will pay a 10 annual percent dividend, or $500 million a year. Those dividends take precedence over other payments to common shareholders. Goldman has the right to buy back the shares at any time for a premium of 10 percent.
In addition, Berkshire Hathaway will receive warrants to buy $5 billion in common stock at a strike price of $115 a share, which can be used at any time in a five-year period. Those warrants are already in the money: Goldman shares closed Tuesday at $125.05, up $4.27, and rose to $134.75 in after-hours trading after Mr. Buffett's investment was announced. Shares continued to climb Wednesday, rising another 4.9 percent, to $131.14 in afternoon trading.
Mr. Buffett's possible stake in Goldman is hard to calculate, but the company had a market capitalization of $53 billion at the close of trading Tuesday, a value that would make the $5 billion in common stock worth about 10 percent of the company.
While Mr. Buffett's risks may be limited, he is investing in Goldman at a time when many fear the bank's long-run of soaring profits may be coming to an end. As a federally regulated bank holding company, Goldman may not be able to take the kind of risks that have yielded profits and bonuses that defined Wall Street's latest Golden Age.
Goldman's move came a day after a rival investment bank, Morgan Stanley, raised about $8 billion by selling up to a 20 percent stake to Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Japan's largest commercial bank. Goldman was widely expected to follow suit.
''We are pleased that given our longstanding relationship, Warren Buffett, arguably the world's most admired and successful investor, has decided to make such a significant investment in Goldman Sachs. We view it as a strong validation of our client franchise and future prospects,'' the chief executive of Goldman, Lloyd C. Blankfein, said in the statement. ''This investment will further bolster our strong capitalization and liquidity position.''
For Mr. Buffett, the move is a long-awaited investment in a big financial firm. Though he has struck several deals since the credit market tightened, he has not invested heavily in the financial services sector, even though he has been approached several times.
Editors' Note: September 25, 2008, Thursday
A front-page headline on Wednesday with an article about Warren E. Buffett's plan to invest $5 billion in the Wall Street investment banking firm Goldman Sachs described that company as ''ailing.'' While its stock has been battered and it has agreed to tighter government regulation and wants to raise more capital from investors, ''embattled'' would have been a more accurate headline description of Goldman's state than ''ailing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, faced five hours of questions from a skeptical Senate Banking Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Warren Buffett, who greeted shareholders at Berkshire Hathaway's meeting in May, will invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS) (pg.A25) CHART: GOLDMAN SACHS: Price per share (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); REINSURANCE (68%); INSURANCE POLICIES (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (70%); COCA-COLA CO (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (70%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (70%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (56%) NEBRASKA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



756 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: For Hire: Bailout Adviser

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. -- One of the chief concerns about the Treasury Department's $700 billion bailout plan is that the same Wall Street firms that helped create the crisis could make a killing cleaning it up.
William H. Gross, the manager of the country's largest bond mutual fund, has a solution: he is offering to sort through the toxic assets -- free.
''We have a large and brilliant staff that can analyze and has analyzed subprime mortgages that can help the Treasury out,'' Mr. Gross, the co-chief investment officer for the Pacific Investment Management Company, said in an interview at the company's headquarters here.
He added, ''And I'd even be willing to say that if the Treasury wanted to use our help, it would come, you know, free and clear.'' 
Mr. Gross explained his offer as a philanthropic one. With Pimco's $830 billion under management, ''we make fees aplenty,'' he said. That could be considered an understatement. Pimco is a behemoth in credit markets, and Mr. Gross talks about them with a confidence that reflects his ability to maneuver in them.
But maneuvering is becoming a lot harder these days. After breathing an initial sigh of relief when the Treasury plan was first announced, credit markets are again showing signs of stress.
Mr. Gross pointed it out on Tuesday morning, standing on Pimco's trading floor as Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified before a Senate committee.
''Today's the worst day yet and nobody knows it,'' he said. ''Everybody is squirreling away cash. Even the big banks are refusing to lend money.''
Bid-ask spreads on bonds in almost every sector of the debt markets stretched to a full point or more. ''It's not a pretty situation today, much worse than last week,'' Mr. Gross said.
''Those who just look at the stock market wouldn't know it,'' he added, because the Dow Jones industrial average was down only 126 points at the time. ''But the credit markets are doing a pretty good job of freezing up.''
Despite his proposal to offer his talents, gratis, some investment managers say the government should be wary of giving authority for the auction of mortgage securities to anyone in the private sector, particularly someone with as dominant a position in the bond market as Mr. Gross.
Luis Maizel, a senior managing director of LM Capital Group in San Diego, said the government should instead turn to someone like a former official of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, which is now defunct, or the Federal Reserve.
''They should start with somebody who doesn't have a conflict,'' Mr. Maizel said. ''Bill Gross is a good friend of mine, but if you put this in Bill's hands, Pimco is going to come out great and I don't know that the government will.''
Mr. Gross says that all he wants in return for helping the Treasury Department is for Pimco ''to be recognized for the way we've seen this crisis coming, and for the way we've talked about what's required.''
For more than a year, Mr. Gross, whose investment expertise has earned him a net worth estimated at more than $1 billion, according to Forbes, has indeed played the role of the financial markets' Cassandra. Beginning in July 2007, he warned that the subprime mortgage crisis would become far worse before it would improve.
Other sectors of the financial markets, he predicted, also could seize up if the Federal Reserve and the Treasury did not do something to help keep the markets liquid.
But Mr. Gross and Pimco also attracted criticism when it became clear that the Pimco Total Return fund earned more than $1.7 billion on the day the federal government bailed out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Mr. Gross had been advocating such a move for more than a year, at the same time that he was moving more than 60 percent of his fund's assets into government-agency bonds. The shift in investment strategy began in earnest shortly after Pimco hired Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, as an adviser last year.
Mr. Gross said there was nothing wrong with that advocacy because Pimco had no official role in formulating the plan to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
''We had a role on CNBC,'' he said, ''in that every time we were asked, or I guess every time that The New York Times would call, they would say, 'What are you doing?' and we would say: 'Well, we want safe, agency-guaranteed mortgages. We don't want to take a lot of risks in subprime space.' ''
With the current liquidity crisis touching virtually every sector, any firm in a position to advise the Treasury on its rescue plan would have potential conflicts of interest, Mr. Gross said. ''There's fewer of them here than anywhere else,'' he added. ''Simply because we saw the crisis coming and we don't have much of this paper.''
The calm of the Pimco trading floor is perhaps a reflection of that reality. Even in the midst of the Wall Street tumult, it is less cacophonous pit than library, the low murmur of conversation among portfolio managers drowned out only by the clacking keyboards.
Mr. Gross, a lanky 64-year-old who practices yoga and sometimes speaks so softly that colleagues lean toward him, drifted around the room on Tuesday, an unknotted pale blue Hermes tie draped around his neck, his gray and brown hair extending down over his ears, reminiscent more of the 1970s than today.
Pimco's headquarters sit on a bluff overlooking the Pacific Ocean. On a clear day, the view extends westward beyond Catalina Island, which sparkles like a jewel in the midday sun.
The windows on the Pimco trading floor, where Mr. Gross spends most of his time, however, face in the opposite direction -- toward Wall Street and Washington, two arenas where Mr. Gross and his firm carry outsize influence.
Mr. Gross, who talks regularly with Mr. Paulson, believes the bailout plan should grant broader relief for homeowners and others weighed down by unmanageable debt. He says foreign banks should be allowed to take part in the program, but he argues against any measures that would try to restrict executive compensation -- a move that Mr. Paulson tentatively backed Wednesday.
''I don't even know if it's legal,'' Mr. Gross said of attempts to limit executive pay. ''And so I think that complicates the situation. That's not to defend those that are making big checks, but I don't think it should be attached to this.''
Mr. Gross is also skeptical of proposals to have the Treasury take ownership stakes in banks that sell troubled assets to the government.
Buying a pool of subprime mortgages is not like buying part of a company, he said. The Treasury would own something -- the mortgages themselves, which, if it pays the right amount for those loans, could earn it a yearly return of 12 to 13 percent when they are resolved.
''All the capital gains will accrue to the Treasury,'' he said. ''There's tons of equity here. It's just that it's very difficult for American taxpayers to understand.''
The key, of course, is price, which is where an adviser to the Treasury would come in. Mr. Gross says much of the opposition to the plan stems from a misunderstanding that the Treasury would buy troubled mortgage bonds at face value.
On the contrary, Mr. Gross said, he would advise the Treasury to pay closer to 60 or 65 cents on the dollar for the mortgage bonds.
''If the price is right, the Treasury's going to make money,'' Mr. Gross said. ''They made money on Chrysler. They can make money on this,'' he said, referring to the federal bailout of the carmaker in 1979 and 1980.
Still, when asked how he saw the broader economy here and abroad over the next year, Mr. Gross responded simply, ''Not pretty.''
''There will definitely be a prolonged period of either slow growth or recession for 12 to 18 to 24 months,'' he said. ''We're not going to get out of this easily or scot-free. It's just gone too far to now turn around quickly and to move into a positive growth mode.''
In the meantime, a surge in regulation of the financial sector will be unleashed, probably an inevitable result of the problems and rescues of recent months.
''Twelve to 24 months down the road, all of these high-flying investment banks and banks will be reregulated and downsized,'' Mr. Gross said. ''They won't become arms of the government, but they will be supervised and held on a tight leash.''
The greater regulation should draw investors back to the market and away from what seems to be their current financial strategy -- stuffing their cash in mattresses.
Even Mr. Gross admits that he has been, at times, reluctant to commit.
''We were offered this morning a six-month sizable piece of Morgan Stanley,'' he said on Tuesday. ''Here's the surviving investment bank that just last night got equitized or bailed out by a Japanese bank. We were offered a sizable piece of a six-month Morgan Stanley obligation at a yield of 25 percent, O.K.?''
Pimco did not buy the bonds, ''because we thought we could get it even cheaper,'' Mr. Gross said, adding that thinking of that kind was at the heart of today's market paralysis.
''That's where the fear builds in and makes for totally illiquid markets,'' he said. ''Where no one trusts anybody; no one trusts any price.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William H. Gross is the manager of the country's largest bond mutual fund, at Pimco, which hired Alan Greenspan as an adviser last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 William H. Gross said that the bailout plan should help homeowners with unmanageable debt and include aid for foreign banks, but that executive compensation should not be limited.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); AUCTIONS (67%); STOCK INDEXES (64%)

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (93%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



757 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Amid Boom, Concerns At Small Solar Firms

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
Solar power is in the midst of a boom in the United States. High energy costs are one reason. But what may be more important are generous state and power company incentives and rebates, as well as tax credits that make solar systems affordable to many more people and businesses.
This surge has, in turn, created hundreds, if not thousands, of small businesses, mostly contractors and installers.
They are people like Glenn Barresi, an electrician in South Windsor, Conn., who got into the solar installation business in 2005, about a year after Connecticut instituted one of the most generous rebate programs in the country. His company, Solarbrite, has grown from two employees -- Mr. Barresi and his father -- to more than a half dozen. But, he said, if the rebates go away, ''I'm out of business.'' 
While industry groups and experts are not predicting a bust, they are raising concerns that growth is about to be tempered. The solar power industry is experiencing growing pains over how power is financed and distributed. In the end, larger companies may gain the upper hand, and the incentives could decrease or even disappear.
''I think probably what we're going to see is the gradual disappearance of the very small one-, two-, three-person company that does everything,'' said Dave Ljungquist, associate director of project development at the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund.
The fund, which administers the state's solar rebate program, has a list of more than two dozen approved installers, up from three when it began. ''We're going to see more larger companies where they have marketing specialists and where they can do enough business to get competitive pricing from distributors or the factory,'' Mr. Ljungquist said.
The Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group, estimates there are about 3,400 companies and organizations and 30,000 to 40,000 direct solar energy-related jobs in the United States, though calculating the overall economic benefit of the solar industry is difficult.
According to the Solar Center at North Carolina State University, which maintains a database, more than half the states now have rebates or incentives for solar power. Ninety-eight percent of solar installations are in those states, according to data compiled by Larry Sherwood, a consultant for the Interstate Renewable Energy Council. California, with the longest standing, most highly developed incentive programs, has the greatest share of the activity, including several hundred installers. Perhaps more important, the state has a long-term commitment to the incentives.
In Oregon, the number of installers has grown to 90 from 12 in about five years. And in an attempt to lure small manufacturers to Oregon, the state Economic and Community Development Department is offering incentives to businesses that make solar components like silicon, or devices like the inverters needed to transform solar energy from DC to AC.
''In my mind, it's much better to have a program that's sustainable over time and not a program that puts in a bucketload of installations at one time and then shuts down,'' Mr. Sherwood said. ''Otherwise, companies come in and then they leave. You can't build a small-business infrastructure.''
New Jersey serves as an object lesson. Its generous rebate program had to be suspended after all the allotted money was spent. Contractors are finishing the backlog, but there is considerable uncertainty while the state's Board of Public Utilities develops a new program, at least part of which is likely not to involve rebates.
Bill Condit, the chief operations officer of Trinity Solar in Freehold, N.J., which evolved from a heating and air conditioning company, said the suspension of the rebate program was a worrisome reminder of the solar hot-water boom and bust of the mid-1980s. At that time, too, generous rebates and tax credits spawned dozens of small solar companies. Almost all went out of business when the programs abruptly ended.
''For those who are here, we're hoping that doesn't happen'' again, Mr. Condit said.
Bob Chew said he had seen this kind of exuberance play out before. A survivor of the solar thermal era, he got back into the solar business, starting a company called SolarWrights in Rhode Island, when the state began an incentive program. He said he found himself on the brink again when it ended suddenly in 2006, but he survived by following the money to Connecticut, New York and eventually the rest of New England.
''New Hampshire just announced a new program, so we just opened up an office in Portsmouth,'' he said. ''We follow the incentives.''
He's gone from one part-time employee -- himself -- to more than 60. Sales bookings last year were $5.9 million, more than double the year before, and he expects to hit $20 million this year.
But Mr. Chew and others say incentives and rebates are only part of the solar small-business formula. ''I think the perception is that you have to always throw money at this industry,'' he said. ''The incentive should be a crutch to help the industry grow until the crutch is no longer needed.''
Jeffery Wolfe and his wife founded groSolar in Vermont in 1998. Today, the company has 90 employees, distributes solar products nationally and does installations in a number of states. Mr. Wolfe said he expected sales to reach $60 million this year, about double last year.
Incentives, he said, helped him get to this point. But he added: ''It's a push and pull. Incentive programs create some market'' for solar that ''help create awareness that help create the culture that makes more demand for it.''
Federal tax credits have also been playing a role in creating demand, especially for commercial projects where the credits are worth 30 percent of the cost of a system. The industry has been worried that Congress will adjourn without extending the credits past their Dec. 31 expiration. It is still unclear if legislation to extend and even increase some of them will pass before Congress recesses.
Even if the credits expire, no one thinks the industry will disappear. The energy landscape is much changed and quality control much improved since the solar thermal debacle.
What may also determine whether small businesses will continue to dominate the industry are the so-called power purchase agreements. Those agreements are much like leasing a car. Instead of owning a solar system, a homeowner or business essentially leases power from a system on its property that is owned by another company. Such arrangements may be best managed by large companies, and there is already evidence that they are becoming popular alternatives, especially for commercial projects, when the initial cost is a stumbling block.
On Long Island, where the groundwork is being set for a unique commercial arrangement that will put a large amount of solar power into the grid, there is little concern that it will curb the enthusiasm for solar. Some 1,300 systems have been installed since the Long Island Power Authority instituted its rebate program in 2000.
Gordian Raacke, executive director of Renewable Energy Long Island, which provides contractor listings, said he received calls almost daily from companies that wanted to be added. ''This is the very beginning of what I think will be a very rapidly expanding market,'' he said. ''You ain't seen nothing yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bob Chew, of SolarWrights in Rhode Island. When the state's incentive program ended, Mr. Chew branched into other states.
 SolarWrights workers install panels in Little Compton, R.I.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



758 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Cheaper Homes Are Attracting Some Buyers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A decline in home prices in August attracted more buyers in some areas and led to a sizable decline in the number of unsold homes on the market, the National Association of Realtors said Wednesday. 
 The median sales price fell 9.5 percent, to $203,100, the largest price decline on records dating to 1999. As prices fall, buyers are taking advantage of steep discounts, especially in hard-hit markets like California, Nevada and Florida.
 ''Time and price are the real cures for the housing market slump,'' said Mike Larson, an analyst at Weiss Research.
 The inventory of unsold homes fell 7 percent, to 4.3 million, down from the record of 4.6 million in July. That's a 10.4-month supply at the current sales pace.
 The decline, however, merits only ''a small round of applause'' because about five months of inventory is a more typical level, wrote a Global Insight economist, Patrick Newport. Also, many homeowners who don't have to sell are probably keeping their properties off the market. At the same time, thousands of foreclosed properties are tied up in court and are not for sale yet.
 Inventories have been driven higher by a large wave of mortgage foreclosures, especially on risky loans.
 The Realtors say they hope the government's takeover of the mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, combined with a huge plan to purchase distressed mortgage securities on Wall Street, will ultimately make it easier for homebuyers to get mortgages.
 But with credit remaining tight and foreclosures still surging, ''home prices are likely to decline considerably further in the quarters ahead,'' wrote Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, in a research note.
 Making matters worse for buyers, mortgage rates, which fell after the takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have been creeping back up amid uncertainty over how the government's intervention in financial markets would play out. New applications for home loans fell 10.6 percent last week, the Mortgage Bankers Association said Wednesday.
 Existing home sales fell in August to a seasonally adjusted rate of 4.91 million units, down 2.2 percent from an upwardly revised pace of 5.02 million in July. Sales were down almost 11 percent from August last year. Without adjusting for seasonal factors, sales were down 15 percent from year-ago levels.
 While buyers are attracted to lower prices, especially in places like California, Florida and Nevada, sales are sluggish in formerly stable markets like the Pacific Northwest and Charlotte, N.C., Lawrence Yun, the trade group's chief economist, said.
 The rate of home sales fell from July to August in the Northeast, where they dropped 6.6 percent, and the West, where sales declined 5.3 percent. Sales rose by less than 1 percent from July to August in both the Midwest and South.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The inventory of unsold homes fell 7 percent, to 4.3 million, down from the record of 4.6 million in July. At the current pace of sales that's a 10.4-month supply of homes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted.(Source: National Association of Realtors) Chart details line and bar graph for June, July and August. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (65%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



759 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS CONFIDENCE FALLS IN THREE COUNTRIES

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Business confidence dropped in Germany, France and Italy in September, surveys showed, adding to fears that the euro zone is sinking into recession as the effects of financial turmoil in the United States spread across the Atlantic. The Ifo Institute's closely watched indicator of German business confidence fell for a fourth month, to hit its lowest level since May 2005, when economic woes forced former Chancellor Gerhard Schroder to call early elections. Other surveys showed Italian corporate sentiment mired at record lows last seen after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. French business morale plunged to its worst level in more than five years. Germany, France and Italy have the biggest economies in the 15-nation euro zone, together making up about two-thirds of its total gross domestic product. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EURO ZONE (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (87%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



760 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: The Return of Taro Aso

 BODY:
Japan's new prime minister, Taro Aso, is well known -- and not fondly remembered -- by Japan's neighbors as a pugnacious nationalist. As foreign minister from 2005 to 2007, Mr. Aso soured relations with China and South Korea and raised tensions throughout the region, praising the achievements of prewar Japanese colonialism, justifying wartime atrocities and portraying China as a dangerous military threat. 
 Now, the power brokers in the long-governing Liberal Democratic Party have made him Japan's fourth prime minister in just two years and rebranded Mr. Aso as a ''pragmatist.'' 
 Mr. Aso is expected to focus on stimulating Japan's stagnant economy. To successfully lead a 21st-century Japan, he will also need to swap nationalism for pragmatism when it comes to foreign relations. Japan's future depends on cultivating stronger political and economic relations with China -- its largest trading partner -- South Korea and other rapidly advancing neighbors. 
 He has assured Washington that he will resist opposition efforts to shut down a Japanese naval refueling mission in the Indian Ocean -- Japan's risk-free demonstration of support for American and allied military efforts in Afghanistan. 
 What the United States most needs from Japan is a responsible strategic partner, not a government whose imperial reveries and symbolic muscle-flexing will provoke angry reactions across Asia. 
 Nationalism is enjoying a disturbing political revival because many Japanese fear that their country, once Asia's clear economic leader, is losing ground to booming neighbors. The answer for that doesn't lie in the nostalgic fantasies about Japan's ugly past for which Mr. Aso has become well known. 
 Instead, Japan needs to modernize its economy by completing the market reforms begun by Junichiro Koizumi, the former prime minister. And it needs to modernize its foreign policy by treating its neighbors as equals. If Mr. Aso can be pragmatic enough to adopt that agenda, he is likely to be a successful prime minister. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (68%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



761 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: The Fountain of Youth at Your Fingertips

BYLINE: By ANNA JANE GROSSMAN

 BODY:
ON a recent flight from New York to Los Angeles, Chris Salgardo noticed an attractive woman sitting a few rows ahead of him. ''She looked like she was in her 40's,'' he said. ''She was beautiful with great skin. She had an overall very supple complexion.'' 
 This is a significant compliment coming from Mr. Salgardo, the president of Kiehl's U.S.A., a skin- and hair-care company. But then he looked down and saw the woman's hands hammering away on her laptop. ''They were veiny, crepey and had brown spots all over them,'' Mr. Salgardo said.
 Suddenly, his estimation of her age jumped at least a decade. ''The hands were a dead giveaway,'' he said. 
 Once upon a time, people became older and it showed. Thanks to dermatologists and plastic surgeons who made it their mission to tackle visible age, future generations -- at least those who will be able to afford it -- may never have to endure sagging jowls or droopy eyelids. But the war being waged against dark spots, ropey veins and the various other symptoms of the no-longer-youthful hand is a relatively recent battle, one that can be more challenging than combating facial wrinkles.
 The skin on the hands is generally thinner than facial skin. It has the consistency of an eyelid and may be more sensitive to the indignities of time.
 For some people, the battle is being fought at night, with moisturizing gloves and thick coats of specially formulated hand creams -- a skin care sector that has grown more than 60 percent globally in the last four years, according to a July report from the Nielsen Company, a marketing research company in Illinois. 
 Others, like Mr. Salgardo, never leave the house without applying sunscreen to their hands. Many people resort to options found only in doctors' offices: plumping fillers and other injections, along with age-erasing lasers. 
 Whatever the method, hands are clearly in the spotlight these days.
 ''The antiaging movement has picked up a lot of steam and people are starting to focus on parts of their body other than their faces,'' said Dr. David Colbert, a Manhattan dermatologist who has worked on the hands of, among others, Dara Tomanovich, the face (and hands) of the Olay Regenerist skin care line. ''Hands are in. In terms of dermatology, they're hot.''
 Marilyn Mehaffy, a 63-year-old retired professor in Chevy Chase, Md., said, ''I never thought about my hands other than something that I did things with.'' Now, she doesn't go to bed without donning moisture-sealing gloves called Moisture Jamzz. 
 ''Every day I have patients asking what they can do to make the back of their hands look better,'' said Dr. Michael Salzhauer, a plastic surgeon in Bal Harbour, Fla. ''It's like you fix up your bathroom and then you want to do your kitchen, but then you realize you have to do your living room. You want it all to match.''
 Dr. Robert Weiss, a dermatologist in Baltimore, theorizes that the recent increased interest in hand care has something to do with the state of the economy. ''People need to be working longer so they don't want to look like they could be considered retirement age,'' he said.
 In the last two years, he noted, the American Society of Dermatologic Surgery, of which he is president-elect, has been offering its members a variety of information sessions relating to hand care. ''We'd never done that before, but there was a demand for it,'' he said.
 In Washington, hand-primping procedures have become increasingly popular among female politicians and lobbyists, said Dr. Elizabeth Tanzi, a dermatologist at the Washington Institute of Dermatologic Laser Surgery. ''Lobbyists understand the importance of appearance,'' she said. ''When they are proposing an idea and they are trying to win over their audience, hands are a dead giveaway of age. A youthful appearance gives them an edge.''
 One of the most visible signs of aging in the hands is a loss of volume, which creates hands that look bony, with pronounced veins. Dr. Weiss often uses sclerotherapy: injecting veins with a solution that shrinks them. 
 Some doctors inject the hands with fillers such as Restylane to add volume and render veins and visible tendons less noticeable. Restylane injections, which are approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use on the face, generally cost around $3,000 and usually takes just one visit. Results may last up to a year, but can sometimes cause short-term problems such as bruising, swelling, itchiness and sensitivity. If done improperly, patients run the risk of having a tendon pierced, Dr. Colbert said.
 Still, patients are lining up for the procedures. 
 Nonsynthetic injections are also an option. Dr. Sydney Coleman, a plastic surgeon in New York, has developed a procedure over the last 10 years that involves putting up to a thousand tiny injections of a person's own fat into their hands; the procedure, which costs at least $12,000, is done in-office and the results last over a decade, he says. The patient is likely to endure about three weeks of puffiness and redness, he said.
 Injections are only one of a medley of available techniques.
 ''If someone has a lot of brown spots and sun spots, I'll use a laser,'' Dr. Tanzi said. ''It really helps with the discoloration that we often see on hands. Then there's crepey skin; to treat that, we try to stimulate more collagen using lasers.'' 
 One nonmedical expert, the hand model Ellen Sirot, says that hands that have sustained the normal wear and tear can be ''de-aged'' without injections or lasers. Over the years, Ms. Sirot, who is in her 40s, has been the flawless television hands of countless women, including Cheryl Tiegs, in ads for Light n' Lively yogurt, and Sarah Jessica Parker, in commercials for Garnier. 
 MS. SIROT is working on a product line called Ellen Sirot Hand Perfection, which she hopes to introduce next spring. ''What I'm doing is pairing the baseline botanicals I use -- avocado oils, omega 3s, et cetera -- with the breakthrough technology that the beauty industry has found for our faces,'' she said. 
 But if you want to have hands like Ms. Sirot's veinless-poreless-hairless-looking appendages, it will be a full-time commitment. She said she hasn't cooked, cleaned or held her husband's hand in a decade. The latter activity would mean keeping her hands below her waist, which would increase blood flow and make veins more apparent.
 She also moisturizes at least once an hour, soaks her nail tips in lemon juice to keep them white and has several hundred pairs of gloves in various styles and wears them almost constantly. (For the average hands-obsessed person, she is designing a kind of glove-thong that covers just the back.) 
 Around the house, she lets her husband do pretty much everything -- including wiping smudges from her various hand unguents off doorknobs. Typing is allowed, but in an effort to avoid any kind of callous buildup or muscle strain, she keeps pen use to a minimum. (Her signature is a quick horizontal line.) 
 And if her husband isn't there to open the car door, Ms. Sirot does it by using a bit of choreography that involves her knuckle and her knee. 
 Is her regimen extreme? Yes -- but on any given day, she can be found answering e-mail messages from people begging for her hand care secrets. The desire for hand perfection, Ms. Sirot said one recent afternoon while rubbing a clementine rind on her fingers, is more widespread than we realize. ''It's amazing that we've gone so long without caring for our hands,'' she said. 
 But will the rest of the world buy into a life that will require keeping hands even just a fraction as cloistered as hers? 
 ''I'll keep my beautiful fingers crossed,'' Ms. Sirot said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOOK BUT DON'T SQUEEZE: Ellen Sirot, a hand model to the stars, uses lemon on her finger nails to keep them white. (Another trade tip: don't hold hands.) Right, images show a patient's progress over an eight-year period after she received a thousand tiny fat-cell injections to her hands to achieve a more youthful look. Left, Moisture Jamzz gloves. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, DR. SYDNEY COLEMAN/TRIBECA PLASTIC SURGERY
 BELOW FAR LEFT, LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); TOILETRIES MFG (89%); DERMATOLOGY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (68%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (53%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



762 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 699 words

PERSON: Don Ultang 

HEADLINE: Don Ultang, Pioneer in Aerial Photography, Dies at 91

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Don Ultang, an early specialist in aerial photography who won the 1952 Pulitzer Prize for photography for documenting an egregious, seemingly racially motivated assault on the field during a college football game, died on Sept. 18 in Johnston, Iowa, where he lived. He was 91.
 His daughter Joanne Ultang confirmed his death. 
 On Oct. 20, 1951, Mr. Ultang and another photographer, John Robinson, were dispatched by The Des Moines Register to Stillwater, Okla., to cover a football game between Drake University, which is in Des Moines, and Oklahoma A&M (now Oklahoma State).
 Drake's star, Johnny Bright, was being spoken of as a Heisman Trophy contender. He had twice led the nation in total offense, and two years earlier, when he first played against A&M, he was reported to have been the first black player to appear on Lewis Field in Stillwater.
 In the first quarter, an A&M lineman, Milbanks Smith, delivered several vicious hits to Bright, one of which was a forearm to the face as Bright stood in repose after handing the ball off to another runner; it broke his jaw. Mr. Ultang and Mr. Robinson turned in a series of six photos that depicted an obviously unsportsmanlike blow. 
 Published the next day and taking up an entire page of The Register, the photos had an immediate impact. Drake withdrew from the Missouri Valley Conference, and the incident hastened the requirement that college football players wear mouthpieces and helmets with face masks. Mr. Ultang, who had shot with a still camera, and Mr. Robinson, who had a sequence camera, shared the Pulitzer Prize. (In a 1999 interview for an oral history project conducted by the University of Iowa journalism school, Mr. Ultang said his photograph of the play was identical to the final shot of Mr. Robinson's sequence. Mr. Robinson died in 1972.) 
 It was not uncommon for teams to go hard after the opposition's star player, and Smith always denied that the assault was racially motivated. In any event, the injury effectively ended Bright's college career, though he went on to play in the Canadian Football League and was inducted into its Hall of Fame. He died in 1983.
 Donald Theodore Ultang was born on March 23, 1917, in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and grew up in Cedar Rapids. After graduating from the University of Iowa in 1939 with a degree in economics and an interest in photography, he was hired by The Register and shortly thereafter decided to learn to fly, signing up for a government-financed civilian pilot program. He joined the Navy during World War II and served as a stateside flight instructor.
 As he told the story, on his return, he persuaded The Register to buy a plane for editorial use, like aerial photography. As the only pilot on the staff, he took pictures while flying the plane. He let go of the controls briefly to shoot a flood, a train wreck or simply a segment of the vast Midwestern panorama with a heavy Speed Graphix camera, before circling around for another take, often just a few hundred feet above the ground. 
 ''Low and slow is what kills pilots,'' Mr. Ultang explained in the oral history project. ''I had to be low to get the job done, and I simply kept about 20 miles per hour extra air speed.'' 
 Many of Mr. Ultang's pictures were collected in ''Holding the Moment: Mid-America at Mid-Century'' (Iowa State Press, 1991).
 ''What I had to learn to do as I flew toward a subject was to time the moment when I started to bank,'' he said, ''so when I got into the full 45- or 50-degree bank, the subject was out in front of me. It gave me an unobstructed view of about five seconds.''
 In addition to Joanne Ultang, who lives in Chicago, Mr. Ultang, who was widowed twice, is survived by two other daughters, Linda Powers and Ellen Caroline Ull; four grandchildren; and five great grandchildren.
 Mr. Ultang had flown to the game in Stillwater on that day in 1951, but in order to return to Des Moines and develop the pictures in time for the daily deadline, he and Mr. Robinson stayed only through the first quarter. By then, Johnny Bright was on the sidelines with a broken jaw.
 ''If all this had happened in the second quarter, we wouldn't have even been there,'' Mr. Ultang said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HISTORY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); FACIAL INJURIES (72%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); WORLD WAR II (64%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (84%); MISSOURI VALLEY ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (78%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (73%) IOWA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Photography

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



763 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Costs Create Rising Strain, Studies Find

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Even as Washington and Wall Street debate the best way to avert an economic disaster, increasing numbers of Americans are struggling with another financial crisis: the growing burden of unpaid medical bills.
 Two studies released Wednesday provide further evidence of the toll that health care is increasingly placing on working families, even for those with health insurance. And as employees are paying more medical expenses out of their own pockets, they are having a harder time coming up with the money. 
 The studies, by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Center for Studying Health System Change, were completed earlier this year before the financial markets reached their current state of crisis. But policy analysts say the findings underscore the mounting additional strain that medical care is placing on working Americans. 
 ''The problems people are having paying for health care and health insurance are a central dimension of the economic and pocketbook concerns right now,'' said Drew E. Altman, the president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit health research group that conducts an annual survey of employer medical benefits. 
 The studies, policy analysts say, underscore the need for the government to address the growing unaffordability of care, despite the distraction -- and cost to taxpayers -- of a proposed $700 billion bailout of the financial sector. 
 ''This makes clear the cost of doing nothing is high and growing,'' said Len Nichols, a health economist at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan policy group in Washington that advocates universal medical coverage. 
 While policy analysts acknowledge that finding any new money to expand coverage may prove difficult, some also say the terms of the debate may be changing as policy makers and the public rethink their positions on the need for regulation and the role of the government in industry -- including the health care system. 
 ''We can now imagine a government takeover that we could not imagine before,'' Mr. Nichols said. 
 Although inflation in insurance premiums has moderated in recent years, the Kaiser survey found that employees were continuing to spend more in medical costs, including their share of yearly insurance premiums. Employees are paying an average of $3,354 in premiums for family coverage, more than double the amount they paid in 1999. The total cost for family coverage now averages $12,680 a year, up 5 percent from 2007.
 And as people are paying more, they are finding the higher expense less affordable. In the study by the nonpartisan Center for Studying Health System Change, based on its national survey of households, nearly one of every five families had problems paying medical bills last year. More than half of these families said they borrowed money to pay these expenses, and nearly 20 percent of those having difficulty said they contemplated declaring personal bankruptcy as a result of their medical bills. 
 The study estimates that 57 million Americans live in families struggling with medical bills, and 43 million of those have insurance coverage. ''It's hitting both the insured and the uninsured, and it's hitting middle-class families,'' said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit research organization that financed the study. 
 Because they are already in debt over their medical care, some families start forgoing treatments, even for serious or chronic conditions, Ms. Davis said. By deciding not to fill a prescription for high blood pressure medication or failing to go to the doctor for diabetes, they are at risk of incurring more serious and costly problems that can land them in the emergency room.
 ''It's a serious health problem and it's a serious economic problem,'' she said. 
 As the nation has moved toward greater cost-sharing of medical expenses, ''what we're seeing is families are not in a position to shoulder that financial risk,'' Ms. Davis said. 
 While large employers remain a strong and generous source of coverage, the Kaiser study pointed to the widening divide between employees working for big companies and those at companies with fewer than 200 employees. 
 Virtually all large employers offered coverage, but only 62 percent of small companies did. People working for big companies were also paying less -- about $3,000 a year for family coverage -- compared with $4,100 for those in small companies. 
 Faced with the choice of dropping coverage altogether, many small companies have opted for health plans that ask employees to pay much more in the form of deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses. One in three workers in small businesses has annual deductibles of $1,000 or more, in contrast to one in five in the previous year's survey. 
 ''We still strongly believe health care is an economic issue for small business, not only to the owners but to their employees; they are both paying for it,'' said Amanda Austin, a lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, a Washington group that represents small employers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



764 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: New Effort Aims to Test Theories Of Education

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Roland G. Fryer Jr., a Harvard economist, has often complained that while pharmaceutical companies have poured billions of dollars each year into studying new drugs and Boeing devoted $3 billion to develop the 777 jet, there has been little spent on efforts to scientifically test educational theories.
 Now Dr. Fryer has quit his part-time post as chief equality officer of the New York City public schools to lead a $44 million effort, called the Educational Innovation Laboratory, to bring the rigor of research and development to education. The initiative will team economists, marketers and others interested in turning around struggling schools with educators in New York, Washington and Chicago. 
 Backed by the Broad Foundation, founded by the billionaire philanthropist Eli Broad, and other private groups, the research is intended to infuse education with the data-driven approach that is common in science and business, Dr. Fryer said. He compared the current methods of educational research to the prescriptions of an ineffective doctor.
 ''If the doctor said to you, 'You have a cold; here are three pills my buddy in Charlotte uses and he says they work,' you would run out and find another doctor,'' Dr. Fryer said. ''Somehow, in education, that approach is O.K.''
 In its first year, the research group plans to focus on incentive programs, including controversial ideas like giving students cash for good test scores, an approach that Dr. Fryer has tested in New York since June 2007. 
 Each of the three school districts working with the institute will use a different plan to encourage high achievement, with researchers tracking the effect of each on student performance.
 New York schools plan to continue Dr. Fryer's experiment of paying students in the fourth and seventh grades up to $500 a year for doing well on reading and math tests. A separate Fryer initiative, which rewarded 3,000 New York middle school students with cellphone minutes for academic performance and classroom behavior, was discontinued because the city did not raise enough money from private donors to pay for it this fall.
 Conclusive evidence about the effectiveness of such programs has been scant, and Dr. Fryer said officials are still examining the data on last year's cash incentives. He said he hoped that the cellphone idea would gain traction in other cities.
 Dr. Fryer said the new institute would be able to identify what works so that educators across the country could prioritize their spending.
 ''We will have the willingness to try new things and be wrong -- the type of humbleness to say, 'I have no idea whether this will work, but I'm going to try,' '' he said.
 The Broad Foundation, based in Los Angeles, has pledged $6 million to fund the institute for three years, and the school districts are expected to front half the cost of any projects they launch with the Education Innovation Laboratory. Organizers are seeking other foundation grants to cover additional costs.
 Mr. Broad has been a generous and aggressive advocate of education issues, with mixed results. He has invested in charter schools, run training programs for urban school leaders, and he finances a prize that awards districts for narrowing the achievement gap among income and ethnic groups. 
 Mr. Broad's collaboration with Dr. Fryer, 31, began on Christmas Eve when Mr. Broad called Dr. Fryer to congratulate him on earning tenure from Harvard, the youngest black professor to do so. 
 Mr. Broad asked Dr. Fryer to come up with ''the next big idea'' in education, and Dr. Fryer began consulting with companies that market to younger people. By summer, the idea for the Education Innovation Laboratory had been hatched.
 ''We're looking for people that want to run an urban district that is not satisfied with the status quo, that recognizes that you need reform, you need change,'' Mr. Broad said, ''and recognizes how far America has fallen behind other nations in public education.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHARITIES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CHILDREN (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



765 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: House Ethics Committee Votes To Begin an Inquiry on Rangel

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The House of Representatives' Committee on Standards of Official Conduct voted on Wednesday to begin an ethics investigation into the personal finances and fund-raising of Representative Charles B. Rangel. 
 Mr. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat whose position as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee makes him one of the most powerful members of Congress, has faced an assortment of allegations during the past three months: accepting several rent-stabilized apartments from a Manhattan developer; using his Congressional stationery to solicit donations for a City University of New York center named after him; and failing to report -- and pay taxes on -- $75,000 in rental income he made from a villa in the Dominican Republic.
 Mr. Rangel paid more than $10,000 in back taxes last week to the federal, state and city governments, explaining that the mistakes in his taxes were inadvertent oversights. He has repeatedly said that he is confident that an ethics committee investigation -- which he had requested -- will find that he did not intentionally violate any laws or Congressional rules.
 Mr. Rangel's lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, said in an e-mail message: ''We look forward to fully cooperating with the ethics committee, which we had previously asked to look into these matters. We hope and trust that the ethics committee will find that Mr. Rangel has done nothing intentionally wrong, which we firmly believe.''
 Republicans, who have unsuccessfully pushed for Mr. Rangel to step down as Ways and Means chairman, said that the committee's actions were a sign that the allegations are serious, and said they undermined his authority to lead.
 ''During this time of economic crisis, it is not in our nation's best interest to have the chairman of the House's powerful tax-writing committee under investigation for unethical conduct related to his failure to comply with tax laws,'' said the House Republican leader, John Boehner of Ohio, who again called for Mr. Rangel to relinquish his seat as chairman.
 The acting ethics committee chairman, Gene Green, a Texas Democrat, announced the investigation in a written statement which did not set out a timetable for the inquiry, but said it would determine whether Mr. Rangel ''violated the Code of Official Conduct or any law, rule, regulation, or other standard of conduct.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (92%); GENE GREEN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



766 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Two Big Drug Makers to Begin Disclosing Payments They Make to Doctors

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Amid a national debate over the influence of industry money on medical research and practice, two pharmaceutical giants say they will begin publicly reporting payments they make to outside doctors.
 John C. Lechleiter, chief executive of Eli Lilly & Company, announced on Wednesday that starting next year it intended to post in an online database all its payments to doctors for speaking and consulting services. The postings will ''likely include'' the names of the doctors, or will provide some other identifying information about them, along with the reason for the payments, the company said. 
 In the wake of Lilly's announcement, Merck & Company said later Wednesday that it would disclose speaking fees it pays to doctors, also beginning in 2009. 
 Members of Congress have been pushing for a national registry of such payments. In the last year and a half, Senate investigations have found that prominent researchers at several institutions, including Harvard and the University of Cincinnati, failed to report millions of dollars in outside income from drug makers, contrary to the institutions' reporting requirements.
 University administrators and journal editors say they have no reliable way to verify doctors' private income from industry. Research has found that industry money can bias doctors' interpretation of study findings and may alter their prescribing habits.
 A bipartisan bill called the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, expected to be taken up by Congress next year, would require such a registry. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry's principal trade group, supports the legislation, as do the American Medical Association and a number of major drug makers.
 ''Though we remain hopeful that the Sunshine Act will be passed by Congress at some point, Lilly is taking action independently,'' Dr. Lechleiter said Wednesday in a speech to the Economic Club of Indiana. ''Being more transparent by opening up our business to the public is an important step to building trust and confidence.'' 
 A Lilly spokesman said the company hoped others would follow its lead, a wish voiced by some independent experts. 
 ''This is a good step, and one that should be emulated by other companies, even in the absence of legislation requiring it,'' Dr. Paul S. Appelbaum, a professor of psychiatry, medicine and law at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, said in an e-mail message.
 Dr. Appelbaum said the simplest way to achieve comprehensive disclosure was for the industry itself to maintain public records. ''Any physician who believes that disclosure is likely to be embarrassing,'' he said, ''should not be accepting the money in the first place.''
 As of late Wednesday, Merck was the only other drug company to have joined Lilly in announcing plans for disclosure of such payments.
 A spokesman for Johnson & Johnson said on Tuesday that the company supported a revised version of the Sunshine Act and had committed to disclosing payments for educational grants and to patient-advocacy organizations by early 2009. 
 A spokesman for AstraZeneca said that it already posted educational grants and contributions to nonprofits but that it had not made a decision ''on other areas just yet.''
 A spokesman for Pfizer said it supported the Sunshine Act. 
 Lilly was the first drug maker to publish extensive clinical trial data online, beginning in 2004, and last year it began posting its educational grants and charitable contributions online. Its new database will record all payments it makes to doctors on or after next Jan. 1, and will be accessible online in June or July. If Congress passes a law requiring such reporting, the information will be brought into line with federal guidelines, the company said. 
 Through a spokeswoman, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who has been leading the investigations into drug companies' payment practices, said: ''Disclosing information about financial relationships between industry and doctors is a good thing, and this announcement contributes to transparency. My effort for broad-based transparency and accountability will continue because a uniform reporting requirement is needed to get the full picture.''
 Drug companies' payments to doctors generally fall into one of two broad categories: speaking fees, to doctors who give presentations about products to other doctors, very often while the group dines at the company's expense; and consulting fees, to experts who advise the company on new product development or help design clinical trials. 
 Commercial arrangements are common throughout medicine. In the last two decades, drug and device makers have made payments to tens of thousands of doctors and researchers in all specialties. Worried that this money could taint doctors' research plans or clinical judgment, government agencies, medical journals and universities have been looking more closely at the deals. 
 Minnesota and Vermont are among the few states that have been keeping a record of those payments. From 1997, when Minnesota began its database, to 2005, drug makers made payments to more than 5,500 doctors, nurses and other health care providers in the state, totaling at least $57 million, the state found. An additional $40 million went to clinics, research centers and other organizations. More than 20 percent of the state's licensed physicians received money.
 Vermont reported last year that from July 2005 to June 2006, 81 drug manufacturers spent a total of $2.25 million on ''fees, travel expenses and other direct payments to Vermont physicians, hospitals, universities and others for the purpose of marketing their products.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SUNSHINE LAWS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (85%); ELI LILLY & CO (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (56%); PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); LEL (LSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN C LECHLEITER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



767 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Ten States With a Plan

 BODY:
During the seven somnolent years of the Bush administration, nearly every important initiative to deal with climate change has occurred at the state or local level -- most prominently in California, which has mandated reductions in greenhouse gases from power plants, other industrial sources and cars. 
 Thursday marks another important milestone -- the formal start of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, an agreement among 10 Eastern states from Maryland to Maine to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions from more than 233 power plants. 
 The bipartisan initiative is the result of five years of tough bargaining and represents the country's broadest effort yet to tackle climate change. It could also be an inspiration for national action, while providing an immediate boost to a similar effort now being negotiated among a half-dozen Western states. 
 The plan is modeled in part on the so-called cap-and-trade programs that helped reduce acid rain in the 1990s. Each state will set its own limits on emissions; it will then sell, through an auction, emissions allowances to the utilities that can be traded on the open market. The idea is that putting a price on emissions will give the utilities an incentive to clean themselves up, with proceeds from the auctions channeled to energy efficiency and renewable energy programs in each state. 
 The overall goal is to first stabilize regional emissions until 2015 and then scale them back by 2.5 percent each year through 2018, resulting in an overall reduction of 10 percent below 2009 levels. This is less than the sharp reductions that climate scientists say will be needed in the next decade or so to avert the worst consequences of climate change. And power plant emissions account for only one-fourth of the region's total emissions. But it's an honorable start. 
 There is a real danger that auction proceeds will be diverted to state budgets rather than used to accelerate the transition to a clean-energy economy. New York, in particular, has a history of playing fast and loose with the public's money, so we are encouraged that the State Assembly has approved a bill that would prevent tampering with the proceeds. The State Senate should quickly follow, and others in the initiative should, too. 
 Until Washington takes more responsibility for addressing global warming, the states must lead. The Eastern states deserve immense credit for doing so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (87%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ACID RAIN (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); BUDGETS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



768 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: Raffles: Real Estate's Latest Game Of Chance

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
''AT the time, it didn't seem dumb,'' said Karen Crawford, in the breezy tone of someone who has been mercifully absolved of the consequences of a very bad decision. ''I wonder how many people in America did the same thing.'' 
 Two years ago, Ms. Crawford and her husband, Dennis Kelly, moved from their log house in Hancock, Md., to a renovated 1929 farmhouse nearby, which they bought for $375,000. They put their old house, which they owned outright, on the market, planning to pay for the new one with proceeds from the sale. But the real estate market cooled, and the house sat unsold. Two months after the move, saddled with a costly mortgage, the couple reluctantly put their new farmhouse up for sale; after more than a year, it didn't find a buyer, either. ''Soon it was going to go into foreclosure,'' said Ms. Crawford, a 60-year-old elementary school teacher, a hint of the panic of that time creeping into her voice.
 Desperate, Ms. Crawford came up with a novel strategy: she would hold a raffle. Tickets would go for $100 each, and one lucky person would win the farmhouse. If they could sell enough tickets, they could walk away debt-free. 
 Last December, the couple teamed with a real estate agent and a local charity and set about publicizing the raffle, posting flyers and calling news outlets. By the time the drawing was held at a local country club this past March, they had sold almost 6,500 tickets, raising enough money to cover the cost of the house along with a surplus of more than $200,000 that went to the charity. Having already moved back to the log house, they counted themselves lucky to still have a place to live. 
 ''We were so happy because we'd gone on this horrific two-year journey,'' Ms. Crawford said.
 The raffle idea had come to her in a burst of inspiration, she said. But she is not the only homeowner to have turned to some version of this unorthodox approach in recent months. As the economy has worsened and the real estate market has continued to slump, a number of Americans have been using raffles and competitions -- latter-day versions of the old rent party, only now with a profit motive for the guests -- in a last-ditch effort to raise money and unload a house. And as mortgages have become harder to obtain, some would-be homeowners are being tempted by the chance -- a small one, but with better odds than most lotteries -- to own a house without dealing with a bank (though the victors must pay taxes on their winnings). 
 Raffles seem to have become particularly popular in Maryland, where new ones have recently have been announced for homes ranging from a $550,000 four-bedroom house in Dunkirk to a six-bedroom expanded log cabin in Edgewater valued at more than $1 million. 
 ''Instead of selling it to one person, we're going to try to sell it 31,500 people,'' said Tom Walters, who owns the Edgewater property, referring to the number of $50 tickets he must sell to cover the house's appraised value, a $10,000 second prize and earnings for a charity. Mr. Walters, a mortgage broker, bought the house in 2006 and completed a 4,500-square-foot addition in June. But his career has suffered as a result of the mortgage crisis, he said, and it has lately become ''impossible'' to borrow on the house. ''It's been a perfect storm of bad real estate mojo,'' he said.
 A raffle, he hopes, will get more attention than a traditional sale because of its novelty. ''We thought, let's be more proactive, rather than just putting it on the market,'' he said. If it succeeds, he will avoid paying a sales commission to a real estate agent. 
 Home raffles are hardly an easy proposition. Gambling regulations in many states make holding a private raffle for a house or land illegal unless the homeowner has a nonprofit organization as a partner, and the homeowner cannot make more than the appraised value of the house. (Some states, including New York, forbid even nonprofits from raffling off a home.) 
 Ms. Crawford worked with the San Mar Children's Home, a charity based in Boonsboro, Md., that operates group homes for adolescent girls. San Mar entered into a contingency contract for the farmhouse, under which it would pay for the house with raffle earnings only if those earnings reached a certain level, and then oversaw the drawing. 
 Bruce Anderson, the chief executive of San Mar, said he had to get approval from the state of Maryland to hold the raffle, and that he was required to notify officials of the minimum and maximum number of tickets he planned to sell (5,000 and 7,000, respectively), as well as the date of the drawing. 
 The raffle was a success: San Mar made a $214,000 profit beyond the price of the farmhouse and associated other costs, like advertising. But if the minimum number of tickets hadn't been sold by the final drawing date, the organization would have been obligated to refund everyone's money, and the couple would have been back where they started. 
 Some homeowners who have considered raffles find the red tape daunting. Last summer, Bernadette Grieves, a passenger agent for an airline who lives in Peabody, Mass., looked into holding a raffle for her five-bedroom colonial, which she's been trying to sell for nearly three years. Ultimately, she decided to continue with conventional methods. ''It does sound great,'' she said of the raffle idea, ''especially because the market is horrible. But there's a lot of work to it.'' 
 Others, though, are finding creative ways around the rules. Julie Sigwart, a Web designer, is holding what she calls a ''skills contest'' to give away her six-bedroom, four-bathroom house with ocean views in Maui, which she has been trying to sell since last October. 
 As in the raffle for Ms. Crawford and Mr. Kelly's home, she will charge a $100 entry fee, but participants will have to write an essay -- the theme is ''Aloha, what does it mean to you?'' -- which will be judged by a group of ''prominent members of the community,'' she said. (The judges have yet to be finalized.) Because the contest isn't a game of chance, state approval is not required, and teaming with a nonprofit group isn't necessary. 
 Ms. Sigwart has wanted to downsize for more than a year, and has repeatedly marked her house down, from $729,000 to $600,000. But the market in her area is terrible; she recently attended an open house in a nearby neighborhood and was the only person there. After a contract on her house fell through in August, her husband suggested the contest, and she created a Web site for it this week. Asked when she hopes to begin the contest and declare a winner, she replied, ''As soon as possible on both counts.'' 
 Scott Bernard, a marketing consultant and another frustrated seller, is also holding a skills-based contest, although the word ''skills'' in this case might be generous. Each contestant vying for his remodeled, one-story ranch house in Sebastian, Fla., which he bought in 2005 for $217,000 and renovated for $30,000 in hopes of flipping it, must submit a $49 entrance fee and a copy of a black-and-white line drawing that he or she downloads from a Web site and colors by hand. Three judges (a Philadelphia artist, a local business owner and a former mayor of the town) will pick the top 20 entries based on ''creativity,'' and those images will be posted online so the public can pick a winner, ''American Idol''-style. 
 The line drawing shows two dancers; it's meant as an homage to Support Dance, a nonprofit in Lake Worth, Fla., that Mr. Bernard has decided to work with even though he is not legally required to. Teaming with a charity allows him to feel that the project is ''not just about Scott Bernard getting rid of his house,'' he said, and he will set aside $2 from every entry for the organization.
 Mr. Bernard's motives are not entirely altruistic. Hoping to turn the contest into a business, he and a partner created the Web site where the drawing is posted, howtowinmyhouse.com, in July, with the idea that it could become a clearinghouse for real estate giveaway contests. (A site focused on raffles around the country, usahomeraffle.com, was also started in July, by two Maryland entrepreneurs.) Since Mr. Bernard's own contest was announced by a local newspaper that month, he said, ''I've been working the local market, doing radio and newspaper interviews.''
 Spreading the word is crucial to the success of such contests, according to those who have held them, as is promoting them beyond the local area. (Almost everyone who raffles a home sets up a Web site that accepts on-line orders.) But desperate homeowners should not count on being able to match the publicity given to Ms. Crawford and Mr. Kelly's raffle: After a local newspaper wrote an article about it, it was mentioned on CNN on Super Bowl Sunday. 
 ''We sold 1,500 tickets that day,'' said Mr. Anderson of the San Mar Children's Home, who has since fielded so many requests for information that he will hold a how-to workshop in Baltimore in November. The success of that raffle seems to have inspired many sellers, particularly in Maryland. Still, he said, ''if you study this you'll find that the majority of time it's not successful.'' 
 Mr. Walters said he has sold around 2,000 tickets in the raffle for his Edgewater, Md., house, including several to Asian buyers after a South Korean newspaper picked up the story. He had planned to hold the raffle this Saturday, but will almost certainly postpone it, given how far he is from meeting his minimum goal, selling 31,500 tickets. 
 Mr. Bernard's coloring contest has drawn just 34 paid entries so far, two months into a submissions period that ends on Dec. 17 or whenever he receives the planned maximum number of entries, 5,900. (Attracting participants to a skills-based contest rather than a raffle can be more difficult because participants are required to do more than simply buy a ticket.) 
 Even for the contest winners, there can be serious complications, as Dennis Weaver, a county clerk who took a $100 chance and won Ms. Crawford and Mr. Kelly's farmhouse, discovered. Mr. Weaver had to take out a mortgage to pay the $135,000 in taxes on the prize, and has since decided to sell the farmhouse, returning it to the languishing real estate market. He held an auction, but there were no bids. Then he listed it with the real estate agent who helped orchestrate the raffle, asking, he said, in the high $200,000 range. One deal fell through, and now he is in contract with another buyer. 
 If the farmhouse doesn't sell this time, maybe its new owner can hold a raffle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THAT'S THE TICKET: Dennis Weaver, left, won this Maryland farmhouse in a raffle held by Karen Crawford, center, who took the unusual step when she and her husband couldn't sell the place. Almost 6,500 tickets were sold, at $100 a pop, raising enough to cover the house, with more than $200,000 left for charity.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ALOHA!: Homeowners who can't sell are resorting to solutions other than raffles. Julie Sigwart, with her husband, Micheal Stinson, and their son, Conrad, is holding an essay competition for their Maui house
Scott Bernard, left, is having a coloring contest for his Florida home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (ABOVE)
 JASON MOORE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (RIGHT))(pg. F7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY WILLIAM DUKE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TICKET SALES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CHARITIES (75%); FORECLOSURE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (52%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



769 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: The Crisis Last Time

BYLINE: By RON SUSKIND. 
Ron Suskind is the author of ''The Price of Loyalty: , George W. Bush, the White House and the Education of Paul O'Neill'' and ''The Way of the World: A Story of Truth and Hope in an Age of Extremism.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE Federal Reserve chairman and senior economic officials of the Bush administration solemnly filed into the large conference room of the Treasury Department. There was a sense of urgency, an understanding that drastic action -- restructuring the financial landscape of corporate America -- was desperately needed. 
 Last week? Last night, as the president and his advisers prepared for his address to the nation? Hardly. It was Feb. 22, 2002. The officials were President Bush's original economic team, including the Securities and Exchange Commission's chairman, Harvey Pitt; Glenn Hubbard, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers; and the senior White House economic adviser, Lawrence Lindsey. The Federal Reserve chairman, of course, was Alan Greenspan. 
 The crisis of that moment was the implosion of Enron, Global Crossing and other companies. Along with conflicts of interest and criminally creative bookkeeping, the culprit was often a combination of financial complexity and insanely expensive compensation packages. 
 Enron is long gone, but this episode -- as much a warning for our financial security as the 1993 World Trade Center bombing was to the threat of wider terrorism -- carries some telling lessons as our best minds struggle now to save the economy.
 The meeting, recounted to me by Paul O'Neill, Mr. Bush's first Treasury secretary, and several other participants, was something of a showdown. Everyone came armed for battle, none more than Mr. Greenspan and Mr. O'Neill, who railed that day like a pair of blue-suited Jeremiahs. Their colloquy on economic policy and corporate practice, which began when they were senior officials in the Ford administration, had evolved over three decades.
 To the surprise of many younger men in the room, the duo opened by reminiscing about a bygone era when the value of a company's stock was assessed by how strong a dividend was paid. It was a standard that demanded tough, tangible choices. Everything, of course, came out of the same pot of cash, from executive compensation and capital improvements to the dividend -- which could be spent by a shareholder or reinvested in more company stock as a show of support. 
 In contrast to dividends, Mr. Greenspan intoned, ''Earnings are a very dubious measure'' of corporate health. ''Asset values are, after all, just based on a forecast,'' he said, and a chief executive can ''craft'' an earnings statement in misleading ways.
 Speaking with a hard-edged frankness rarely heard in public -- and seeing that those assembled were not sharing his outrage -- Mr. Greenspan slapped the table. ''There's been too much gaming of the system,'' he thundered. ''Capitalism is not working! There's been a corrupting of the system of capitalism.''
 Mr. O'Neill, for his part, pushed to alter the threshold for action against chief executives from ''recklessness'' -- where a difficult finding of willful malfeasance would be necessary for action against a corporate chief -- to negligence. That is, if a company went south, the boss could face a hard-eyed appraisal from government auditors and be subject to heavy fines and other penalties. By matching upside rewards with downside consequences -- a bracing idea for the corner office -- Messrs. O'Neill and Greenspan hoped fear would compel the titans of business to enforce financial discipline, full public disclosure and probity down the corporate ranks.
 But they were in the minority. Mr. Pitt, the S.E.C. chairman, voiced concern that creation of a new entity to assess negligence by corporate honchos might draw power away from his agency. Lawrence Lindsey said, ''There's always the option of doing nothing,'' that the markets are ''already discounting the stocks in companies that show accounting irregularities.'' 
 An article about the meeting appeared a few days later in The Wall Street Journal. The next day, Mr. O'Neill was in Florida addressing chief executives of America's top 20 financial services companies. They piled on. One told the Treasury secretary that he'd ''rather resign'' than be held accountable for ''what's going on in my company.'' A phalanx of outraged financial industry chiefs, many of them large Republican contributors, called the White House. Real reform was a political dead letter.
 A presidential speech that followed was toothless, mostly recommending that chief executives personally certify their companies' financial statements. Earnings per share remained the gold standard. The Sarbanes-Oxley bill, signed into law a few months later, largely focused on the auditors, and actually increased the complexity of reporting practices. As for lawsuits? Not to worry. No significant rise.
 At issue, of course, were those twins, transparency and accountability. The years since have shown that the first one is meaningless without the second. With a world financial crisis upon us, the president and his economic team are forced again to talk about accountability. Let's hope this time they mean it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BOMBINGS (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); TERRORISM (67%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



770 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Economic Activity Is Slowing Across Many Areas, Fed Chairman Says

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, described the nation's economy on Wednesday as one that was barely limping along and could buckle if financial institutions did not get a $700 billion crutch from the government.
 In his most detailed description of the economy since the Fed and the Treasury Department began calling last week for a broad bailout for the financial system, Mr. Bernanke said Main Street was already beginning to reel from the crisis on Wall Street. 
 Testifying before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, Mr. Bernanke said home mortgages and car loans had become harder to get, commercial credit was becoming scarce for many businesses and consumer spending had already declined.
 ''Economic activity appears to have decelerated broadly,'' the Fed chairman told the lawmakers. He then ticked off a list of depressing indicators. 
 Consumer spending, adjusted for inflation, declined in both June and July and probably in August as well. The country lost 100,000 jobs in August and has lost 770,000 since November. Real after-tax income, adjusted for inflation, has fallen this year. 
 Mr. Bernanke stopped short of saying the economy had already fallen into a recession, as some private economists have declared. 
 But he said that the combination of weakening household income, tougher credit conditions and declining wealth as a result of lower housing and stock prices had ''begun to show through more clearly to consumer spending.''
 The bottom line, he said, was that economic growth was likely to be ''appreciably below'' normal for the second half of this year -- and that seemed to be a best-case situation that assumed financial markets return to something closer to normal.
 ''This is the most significant financial crisis of the postwar period,'' Mr. Bernanke said in response to a question. ''I see the financial markets as already quite fragile. The credit markets aren't working. Corporations aren't able to finance themselves through commercial paper. Even if the situation stayed as it did today, that would be a significant drag on the economy.''
 The Fed chairman delivered his somber assessment as the White House and Treasury Department pulled out the stops to reach a deal with Congress on their $700 billion rescue plan.
 The plan, first proposed by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., has drawn howls of protest from lawmakers in both parties and fury from many voters. 
 Leading Democrats and senior administration officials have argued that a gigantic rescue was unavoidable. The main fights were over how the program should be supervised and how much financial institutions should put up in exchange for the bailout.
 ''There is a clear recognition among members of both parties that we must act, and act soon,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat from New York, who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. ''It's not fair. It's not right. But unfortunately it's the world we live in.''
 New data released Wednesday indicated that the housing market remains deeply depressed. The National Association of Realtors reported that sales of existing homes declined 2.2 percent in August to an annual rate of 4.9 million homes, down from more than 7 million at the peak of the housing bubble but roughly in line with levels for much of this year. 
 The median sales price for a single-family home was $201,900, a decline of 9.7 percent from a year earlier, but the median price for a single family home in the West was down 24.8 percent. The supply of unsold homes declined slightly, to a 10.4-month supply in August from about a 10.9-month supply in July. 
 Mr. Bernanke said recent data hinted at a possible bottoming-out in home sales as buyers take advantage of falling prices. But he said home builders still have a big backlog of unsold homes and the continued decline in home prices was reducing household wealth and putting pressure on the balance sheets of financial institutions.
 Mr. Bernanke offered little guidance about whether the Federal Reserve was likely to reduce interest rates again. Since last September, the Fed has cut the overnight federal funds rate to 2 percent from 5.25 percent, but the central bank has held steady for the last several months.
 Officially, the Fed chairman continued to strike a balanced stance on the relative risks of slowing growth and rising inflation. Despite his bleak outlook for the economy and his urgent plea that Congress pass a rescue plan, Mr. Bernanke described both the risks of slower growth and rising inflation as a ''significant concern.'' 
 But the Fed chairman's message focused on slowing growth and the dangers of a continued decline in credit markets.
 He warned that the two main props for economic growth in the first half of this year had been the government's tax-rebate program and a surge in exports. But the rebates have ended and the outlook for exports has dimmed as global financial conditions have become worse.
 ''In coming quarters, the contribution of net exports to U.S. production is not likely to be as sizable as it was in the first half of the year,'' he told lawmakers.
 The Fed chairman spent most of his time defending the proposed bailout for financial institutions. He brushed aside concerns that the bailout would aggravate inflation or the government's budget deficit, saying that the government would be acquiring assets that it could eventually resell. 
 ''The net fiscal cost to taxpayers will certainly be much less than $700 billion,'' he told lawmakers. ''I think the debt markets will recognize that this debt will be offset by the assets we are buying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Congressional staff members listened Wednesday via television as Ben S. Bernanke described the fragile state of the economy to a joint Senate-House committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); HOME PRICES (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



771 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words

 BODY:
PRIME-TIME SPEECH President Bush, warning of ''a long and painful recession,'' appealed to the nation to support the $700 billion plan to rescue Wall Street. He invited both major presidential candidates and Congressional leaders to the White House to forge a compromise. 
 The bailout plan has stirred Americans' anger in e-mail -- jumping off the screen in capital letters and exclamation points -- to lawmakers in Washington. [A25.] 
 Perhaps the biggest question surrounding the bailout proposal is how the Treasury Department would set a price on the billions of dollars of bad mortgage-based investments. [A1.] 
 GRIM FORECAST The economy is barely limping along and Main Street was already beginning to reel from the crisis on Wall Street, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told a Congressional panel. [C13.] 
 WORRIES IN ASIA A run on the Bank of East Asia in Hong Kong is highlighting widespread anxiety in Asia that Wall Street's recent difficulties might spread across the Pacific. [C1.] 
 JAPAN'S MOVE Tokyo's big banks are buying pieces of Wall Street institutions, but the investments stem not from a position of strength, but a sense of few opportunities at home. [C15.] 
 FEWER UNSOLD HOMES A decline in home prices in August attracted more buyers in some areas and led to a sizable decline in the number of unsold homes on the market, the National Association of Realtors said. [C17.] 
 PRO BONO To counter worries that Wall Street firms could make a killing in the $700 billion bailout plan, the manager of the country's largest bond mutual fund is willing to sort through the toxic assets -- free. [C1.] 
 RUSH FOR SAFETY A new bout of anxiety gripped the credit markets as banks hoarded cash and investors once again rushed for the safest of investments, like Treasury bills. [C1.] 
 MEDICAL BILLS Two new studies provide further evidence of the burden that health care is increasingly placing on working families, even for those with health insurance. [C4.] 
 BUYING ADSYahoo described its system to buy and sell display advertising online, hoping it would dominate the display ad market in newspapers and Web sites the way Google steers the search market. [C4.] 
 SCREENS DOWN Dentyne chewing gum's new campaign is urging people to put down their laptops, BlackBerrys and other electronic devices, and ''Make face time.'' Advertising. [C4.] 
 SPEAK YOUR MIND Advances in voice-recognition software allow smartphone users to say what they want, and forgo all that tapping. Phone Smart: Bob Tedeschi. [C8.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); VOICE RECOGNITION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BONDS (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (70%); BOND FUNDS (69%); FAMILY (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (65%); PRINT ADVERTISING (65%); SMARTPHONES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); WIRETAPPING (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD (56%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

TICKER: 0023 (HKSE) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



772 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Could Warren Buffett Negotiate A Better Deal for Taxpayers?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
Coverage of the financial crisis is available at Economix, a new blog, at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Maybe the American taxpayers should be asking Warren Buffett to be negotiating on their behalf.
 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has spent a good part of the last two days on Capitol Hill arguing that the government should not demand a stake in any Wall Street firms it bails out. Demanding such a stake, Mr. Paulson says, could scare away many of those firms from participating in the bailout, leaving the credit markets as hobbled as they are now.
 And then Mr. Buffett swooped in on Tuesday evening and announced that his company, Berkshire Hathaway, was investing $5 billion in Goldman Sachs, money that would help the firm -- which made far fewer bad investments than most of Wall Street -- shore up its balance sheet. What will he receive in exchange for his investment? Something like a 7 percent stake in the firm. 
 Mr. Paulson, of course, has a different objective than Mr. Buffett. The Treasury secretary is trying to resuscitate the country's financial system and keep the economy from falling into a deep recession. If he drives too hard a bargain, he won't solve the problem. Mr. Buffet is merely trying to make some money.
 But to the many critics of the Paulson plan, the juxtaposition of the Goldman deal and the proposed bailout crystallize the problems with the plan. The critics are worried that the government is taking on too much risk with too little upside. And they can't help but notice that other governments that faced similar crises in recent decades -- in Japan and Sweden -- struck deals that looked more like Mr. Buffett's than Mr. Paulson's.
 On Wednesday, several members of Congress wistfully mentioned the Goldman deal. ''When Warren Buffett invests $5 billion, he gets preferred stock in Goldman Sachs,'' Jeff Bingaman, a Democratic senator from New Mexico, said to Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. ''We're being asked to endorse a bailout where we basically take the assets that these companies -- these firms -- can't otherwise dispose of at a reasonable price.'' 
 Mr. Buffett appears to have gotten a very good deal, one that may not have been available to anybody whose name carries less prestige -- which is to say, just about anybody else. (He will receive dividends that will effectively pay him a 10 percent annual return on his investment, as well as the right to buy a sizable stake in Goldman at a price below the current market price.) Goldman partners figured that his investment would allow them to turn around and raise yet more capital from other investors. Sure enough, they announced Wednesday that they were doing so.
 A firm that accepted money from the Treasury Department would get none of this halo effect. If anything, investors might view a firm desperate enough to approach the Treasury as an endangered species unworthy of further investment.
 But as imperfect as the Buffett analogy may be, it still raises a real question: Is the government getting a raw deal? The inability of Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke -- as well as President Bush -- to make people comfortable with the answer is the main reason that the bailout has encountered so much hostility.
 Economists overwhelmingly agree that the risk facing the economy is serious enough to need quick, bold action. Yet they're deeply skeptical that Mr. Paulson's plan is the right one. Mr. Buffett's deal nicely highlights their two main worries.
 The first is that the Paulson plan may not have the best chance of success. Mr. Buffett's deal with Goldman injects $5 billion in cash into the firm, and those dollars strengthen Goldman's balance sheet. Goldman will then presumably become more willing to lend money, and the credit crisis will be one small step closer to lifting.
 The Japanese government, after years of missteps, followed a strategy much like this one in 1998, putting capital directly into its banks. The move helped end that country's long downturn.
 Mr. Paulson, on the other hand, has asked for a $700 billion credit line to buy distressed assets from financial firms. It's the equivalent of trying to cut a tumor out of the financial system. But there is a potential downside. 
 The Treasury wouldn't just be giving money to the firms. It would be buying an asset of some value (albeit much less value than a year ago). As a result, the transaction might not do enough to bolster the firms' balance sheets. 
 The second worry is that even if the Paulson plan works, it may end up being needlessly expensive. There is huge uncertainty about the true value of those distressed assets. If the government overpays for them, it won't have any way to recoup the money.
 Without an ownership stake -- like the one Mr. Buffett got or the one the Swedish government got when it bailed out its banks in the 1990s -- taxpayers wouldn't really be able to share in the bounty of a Wall Street recovery.
 Now, what would Mr. Buffett have said if Goldman asked for his money and wouldn't let him share in the upside? ''He would have said 'no deal!' '' said Daniel Alpert, of Westwood Capital, an investment firm. ''And that is what Congress must say as well in defense of the American people.''
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson answered their critics by returning to the same point they have made before. If companies must hand over an ownership stake, only the sickest may come forward. Others may wait out the crisis, confident they can survive. But the credit markets would meanwhile remain paralyzed, as a Treasury official argued to me, and the economy could deteriorate.
 It's certainly possible that the Fed and Treasury are right. But the Goldman deal -- in which a firm that didn't seem near extinction voluntarily agreed to give up a fat equity stake in exchange for cash -- puts the onus on Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson to make a better case than they have so far.
 Mr. Bernanke pointed out Wednesday that Mr. Buffett had urged Congress to pass the current bailout plan. I'd point out that Mr. Buffett drove a harder bargain when his own money was on the line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (70%); PREFERRED STOCK (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%); HENRY PAULSON (90%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



773 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Ellis Island Museum to Expand, Touching on Other Eras

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The story of immigration told at the Ellis Island museum will be expanded to the eras before and after the period when Ellis was the portal to America, Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne said on Wednesday, speaking in the vaulted Registry Room of the island's main building.
 Mr. Kempthorne said the expansion would increase the museum's ''relevancy to the more diverse audiences who visit national parks today.'' 
 The $20 million museum expansion, to be known as the Peopling of America Center, will extend the public space from the main building at the Ellis Island National Monument into the adjacent kitchen and laundry building. The new exhibits will follow archetypal families, past and present, through the stages of immigration: leaving, journeying, arriving, struggling and, finally, helping build the nation.
 Although the new exhibition will touch on the story of illegal immigrants, it will keep its focus on citizenship, an emphasis that was underscored on Wednesday when a dozen men and women, most of them in the armed forces, were sworn in as citizens after Mr. Kempthorne's announcement. (They pledged, among other things, to ''bear arms on behalf of the United States.'')
 Specialist Franck Dorval, 36, was among them. He arrived from Haiti two years ago, he said, and worked in restaurants in New Rochelle, N.Y., before enlisting in the Army. ''The best way to give the country something back is to serve the people,'' Specialist Dorval said, though he allowed that education benefits were another inducement.
 As to why he had applied for citizenship, he said he hoped it would open doors in the Army. ''If you want a career, if you want a promotion, you need to be a U.S. citizen,'' he said. An hour after saying that, he was.
 Construction on the museum expansion began last week, said Stephen A. Briganti, president and chief executive of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, which is overseeing the project and says it is to be finished in 2011.
 Given the changing nature of immigration, it is likely that if the museum did not broaden its approach, future generations might see Ellis Island as an anachronistic institution devoted largely to European arrivals from 1892 to 1954, when the immigration station operated there.
 Mr. Briganti said that illegal immigration needed to be part of the story the expanded museum would tell. ''There have been undocumented people ever since immigration began to be controlled,'' he said.
 The exhibit will trace one family that lived in the United States illegally for a time before applying for citizenship. But none of the families traced will be in the United States illegally on a permanent basis, said Edwin Schlossberg of ESI Design, which designed the new center.
 Mr. Schlossberg said that it did not make sense to place too much emphasis on the great concerns surrounding illegal immigration. ''In a public environment, where people are going to spend one and a half hours, the idea of raising issues you can't answer is irresponsible,'' Mr. Schlossberg said. Instead, he said, such issues could be presented in depth on the museum's Web site.
 And a practical objection was noted by Alan M. Kraut, a professor of history at American University and the chairman of the academic committee that advised the foundation. ''If a family was undocumented,'' he said, ''they would be a little bit reticent to have their story told.''
 The National Park Service Centennial Challenge Initiative has committed $2.3 million to the new center, matched by $1.5 million from the Bank of America Charitable Foundation and $1 million from the Annenberg Foundation. All told, Mr. Briganti said, fund-raising is about 75 percent complete.
 But he acknowledged how cloudy the future was, with the turmoil on Wall Street. Asked about fund-raising prospects in a recession, Mr. Briganti said: ''This one has me concerned. I don't know, to tell you the truth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About a dozen men and women were sworn in as citizens on Wednesday in the Registry Room of the main building at Ellis Island.
 The Immigration Museum at the Ellis Island National Monument will be expanded to include other eras of great movement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); NATURALIZATION (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); CITIZENSHIP (75%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

PERSON: DIRK KEMPTHORNE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



774 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 751 words

BYLINE: By BREAKINGVIEWS.COM

 BODY:
Life on Wall St., but Not for All 
 Warren E. Buffett's $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs has given the financial industry a psychological lift. Coupled with another $5 billion to come from a public offering of shares -- as well as a decision earlier this week by the Japanese bank Mitsubishi UFJ to pump up to $8.5 billion into Goldman rival Morgan Stanley -- the Sage of Omaha's latest gambit has restored faith that there's still some fresh capital available for the country's beleaguered banking system. 
 But rivals to Goldman and Morgan Stanley -- newly minted as commercial banks -- shouldn't necessarily expect similar relief any time soon. Nor should their shareholders. For starters, the Berkshire Hathaway boss is picking the best of the bunch. Goldman is renowned for its management skills and cohesive corporate culture and has churned out profits throughout the crisis. Whatever dodgy loans and securities it has left on its balance sheet were already significantly written down in value when the firm was a pure investment bank. It's a similar tale at Morgan Stanley. 
 Long-standing commercial banks, meanwhile, are probably not as far along the curve in recognizing the declines in value of their assets. That's because they are usually allowed to wait until borrowers default before registering losses. As a result, bottom-fishers like Mr. Buffett would be wise to remain wary of straying into deep waters. 
 Even if investors do start looking at other banks and decide to offer fresh capital, the recipients might find the terms of an investment along the lines of Mr. Buffett's hard to bear. After all, as well as giving Berkshire the right to buy a further $5 billion of stock at a below-market prices, Goldman is paying a juicy 10 percent dividend on the $5 billion of preferred stock that Mr. Buffett is initially buying. Firms in greater distress than Goldman would have to pay more. 
 Taken on its own, the dividend Goldman is paying Mr. Buffett doesn't look too far out of line in today's market. Regular long-term debt ought to cost the firm a long-term, low-risk Treasury bond interest rate -- of say 4.4 percent for 30-year Treasuries -- plus a premium to reflect Goldman's riskiness relative to the United States government. That can be estimated by looking at the company's credit default swaps, or the insurance effectively taken by buyers of its bonds against the risk of default. On Tuesday, the cost of such protection for Goldman over five years was 3.7 percentage points annually, a proxy for the risk premium. That adds up to 8.1 percent, so with his 10 percent dividend, Mr. Buffett is collecting a further annual premium of nearly two percentage points to compensate him for providing Goldman with capital that both never has to be repaid and comes a long way behind regular debt in the pecking order should the firm ever file for bankruptcy. That doesn't seem unreasonable.
 Goldman Deals Harder Elsewhere
 The problem for Goldman's rivals is that precious few of them could even hope to attract new capital on those terms, perhaps with the exception of a handful of healthy banks. Figures from Markit, a provider of credit markets data, for Tuesday's credit default swap costs suggest that institutions like JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp are among the few that might be able to pay less than Goldman on similar securities. 
 That is not the case for banks saddled with buckets of poorly performing mortgages. For instance, Wachovia, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., would have to fork over dividends at an annual rate in excess of 12 percent, and Cleveland's National City would be saddled with 16.5 percent annual payments. Washington Mutual's woes have hit its credit standing so hard that it would have to stump up an annual dividend approaching 45 percent for a Buffett-like investment. Moreover, these calculations are based purely on the numbers, and ignore these companies' reputational and management challenges. 
 These and other banks can, however, take some lessons from Mr. Buffett's involvement with Goldman. If you clean up your balance sheet and bring in top-quality managers, you've got a chance of persuading deep-pocketed investors to help set you back on course. But if you tarry, you may be left relying on an increasingly uncertain government bailout plan as your only line of defense. 
 ANTONY CURRIE and RICHARD BEALES 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren E. Buffett's investment in Goldman Sachs is seen as a balm to the markets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT GILLIERON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (70%); CORPORATE CULTURE (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (85%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



775 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Plan's Basic Mystery: What's All This Stuff Worth?

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

 BODY:
What would you pay, sight unseen, for a house that nobody wants, on a hard-luck street where no houses are selling? 
 That question is easy compared to the one confronting the Treasury Department as Washington works toward a vast bailout of financial institutions. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is proposing to spend up to $700 billion to buy troubled investments that even Wall Street is struggling to put a price on. 
 A big concern in Washington -- and among many ordinary Americans -- is that the difficulty in valuing these assets could result in the government's buying them for more than they will ever be worth, a step that would benefit financial institutions at taxpayers' expense.
 Anyone who has tried to buy or sell a house when the market is falling, as it is now, knows how difficult it can be to agree on a price. But valuing the securities that the Treasury aims to buy will be far more difficult. Each one of these investments is tied to thousands of individual mortgages, and many of those loans are going bad as the housing market worsens. 
 ''The reality is that we are not going to know what the right price is for years,'' said Andrew Feltus, a bond portfolio manager at Pioneer Investments, a mutual fund firm based in Boston. ''It might be 20 cents on the dollar or 60 cents on the dollar, but we won't know for years.'' 
 While prices of most stocks are no mystery -- they flicker across PCs and televisions all day -- the troubled investments are not traded on any exchange. The market for them is opaque: traders do business over the telephone, and days can go by without a single trade. 
 Not only that, many of these instruments are extremely complex. Consider the Bear Stearns Alt-A Trust 2006-7, a $1.3 billion drop in the sea of risky loans. Here's how it worked: 
 As the credit bubble grew in 2006, Bear Stearns, then one of the leading mortgage traders on Wall Street, bought 2,871 mortgages from lenders like the Countrywide Financial Corporation. 
 The mortgages, with an average size of about $450,000, were Alt-A loans -- the kind often referred to as liar loans, because lenders made them without the usual documentation to verify borrowers' incomes or savings. Nearly 60 percent of the loans were made in California, Florida and Arizona, where home prices rose -- and subsequently fell -- faster than almost anywhere else in the country.
 Bear Stearns bundled the loans into 37 different kinds of bonds, ranked by varying levels of risk, for sale to investment banks, hedge funds and insurance companies. 
 If any of the mortgages went bad -- and, it turned out, many did -- the bonds at the bottom of the pecking order would suffer losses first, followed by the next lowest, and so on up the chain. By one measure, the Bear Stearns Alt-A Trust 2006-7 has performed well: It has suffered losses of about 1.6 percent. Of those loans, 778 have been paid off or moved through the foreclosure process. 
 But by many other measures, it's a toxic portfolio. Of the 2,093 loans that remain, 23 percent are delinquent or in foreclosure, according to Bloomberg News data. Initially rated triple-A, the most senior of the securities were downgraded to near junk bond status last week. Valuing mortgage bonds, even the safest variety, requires guesstimates: How many homeowners will fall behind on their mortgages? If the bank forecloses, what will the homes sell for? Investments like the Bear Stearns securities are almost certain to lose value as long as home prices keep falling.
 ''Under the current circumstances it's likely that you are going to take a loss on these loans,'' said Chandrajit Bhattacharya, a mortgage strategist at Credit Suisse, the investment bank.
 The Bear Stearns bonds are just one example of the kind of assets the government could buy, and they are by no means the most complicated of the lot. Wall Street took bonds like those of Bear Stearns and bundled and rebundled them into even trickier investments known as collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s 
 ''No two pieces of paper are the same,'' said Mr. Feltus of Pioneer Investments. 
 On Wall Street, many of these C.D.O.'s have been selling for pennies on the dollar, if they are selling at all. In July, Merrill Lynch, struggling to bolster its finances, sold $31 billion of tricky mortgage-linked investments for 22 cents on the dollar. Last November, Citadel, a large hedge fund in Chicago, bought $3 billion of mortgage securities and other investments for 27 cents on the dollar. 
 But Citigroup, the financial giant, values similar investments on its books at 61 cents on the dollar. Citigroup says its C.D.O.'s are relatively high quality because they were created before lending standards weakened in 2006. 
 A big challenge for Treasury officials will be deciding whether to buy the troubled investments near the values at which the banks hold them on their books. That would help minimize losses for financial institutions. Driving a hard bargain, however, would protect taxpayers. 
 ''Many are tempted by a strategy of trying to do both things at once,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. As a hypothetical example, Mr. Summers suggested that an institution could have securities on its books at $60, but the current market price might only be $30. In that case, the government might be tempted to come in at about $55.
 Many financial institutions are so weak that they must sell their troubled assets at prices near the value on their books, Carlos Mendez, a senior managing director at ICP Capital, an investment firm that specializes in credit markets. Anything less would eat into their capital. 
 ''Depending on your perspective on the economy, foreclosure rates and home prices, the market may eventually reflect that price. But most buyers are not willing to make that bet right now,'' he said. ''And that's why we have these low prices.'' 
 Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress on Tuesday that the government should avoid paying a fire-sale price, and pay what he called the ''hold-to-maturity price,'' or the price that investors would bid if they expected to keep the bond till it was paid off. 
 The government would buy the troubled investments with the intention of eventually selling them back to the market when prices recover. 
 The Treasury has suggested it might conduct reverse auctions to determine the price for securities that are not trading in the market. 
 Unlike in a traditional auction in which would-be buyers submit bids to the seller, in a reverse auction the buyer solicits bids from would-be sellers. Often, the buyer agrees to pay the second-highest bid submitted to encourage sellers to compete by lowering their bids for all the assets submitted. The buyer often also sets a reserve price and refuses to pay any more than that price. 
 But Mr. Paulson told Congress on Tuesday that the government would use many other means in addition to auctions, suggesting that it would exercise wide discretion over the final prices to be paid.
 Financial institutions will have an incentive to sell their worst assets to the government, a risk that the Treasury will have to guard against, said Robert G. Hansen, senior associate dean at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College.
 ''I am worried that the people who are going to offer the securities to the government will be the ones that have the absolute worst toxic waste,'' Professor Hansen said. Even so, he added, the government could actually make a profit on its purchases -- provided the Treasury buys at the right prices. Richard C. Breeden, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said the auctions could thaw parts of the markets that have been frozen since late last year.
 ''One of the problems that many institutions are having is finding any bid for some of these assets, even though they are not without value,'' said Mr. Breeden, who is chairman and chief executive of Breeden Capital Management, an investment firm in Greenwich, Conn. 
 ''What are these assets worth?'' asked Mr. Breeden. ''Sometimes, because of fear or extreme uncertainty in the markets, you get in a situation in which there are no bids at all, or at least no realistic bids.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: TRYING TO VALUE AN ELUSIVE INVESTMENT: This Bear Stearns portfolio issued in Otober 2006 packaged $1.3 billion in Alt-A mortgages (in which borrowers gave little proof of their income and assets) bought from lenders like Countrywide Financial. The portfolio contains 37 different certificates, or bonds, with falling values that the government could be asked to buy in a bailout. (Sources: Wells Fargo servicing report
 Bloomberg) (CHART BY VIKAS BAJAJ AND KARL RUSSELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); INSURANCE (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



776 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From President Bush's Speech to the Nation on the Economy

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's address to the nation Wednesday evening, as recorded by the private transcription service Federal News Service. The full transcript is at nytimes.com
 This is an extraordinary period for America's economy. Over the past few weeks, many Americans have felt anxiety about their finances and their future. I understand their worry and their frustration. We've seen triple-digit swings in the stock market. Major financial institutions have teetered on the edge of collapse, and some have failed.
 As uncertainty has grown, many banks have restricted lending. Credit markets have frozen. And families and businesses have found it harder to borrow money. We are in the midst of a serious financial crisis. And the federal government is responding with decisive action.
 We boosted confidence in money market mutual funds and acted to prevent major investors from intentionally driving down stocks for their own personal gain. Most importantly, my administration is working with Congress to address the root cause behind much of the instability in our markets. 
 Financial assets related to home mortgages have lost value during the housing decline. And the banks holding these assets have restricted credit. As a result, our entire economy is in danger.
 So I propose that the federal government reduce the risk posed by these troubled assets and supply urgently-needed money so banks and other financial institutions can avoid collapse and resume lending.This rescue effort is not aimed at preserving any individual company or industry. It is aimed at preserving America's overall economy. It will help American consumers and businesses get credit to meet their daily needs and create jobs. And it will help send a signal to markets around the world that America's financial system is back on track.
 I know many Americans have questions tonight. How did we reach this point in our economy? How will the solution I proposed work? And what does this mean for your financial future? These are good questions and they deserve clear answers.
 First, how did our economy reach this point? Well, most economists agree that the problems we are witnessing today developed over a long period of time. For more than a decade, a massive amount of money flowed into the United States from investors abroad because our country is an attractive and secure place to do business. This large influx of money to U.S. banks and financial institutions, along with low interest rates, made it easier for Americans to get credit.
 These developments allowed more families to borrow money for cars and homes and college tuition, some for the first time. They allowed more entrepreneurs to get loans to start new businesses and create jobs.
 Unfortunately, there were also some serious negative consequences, particularly in the housing market. Easy credit, combined with the faulty assumption that home values would continue to rise, led to excesses and bad decisions. Many mortgage lenders approved loans for borrowers without carefully examining their ability to pay. ... Optimism about housing values also led to a boom in home construction. Eventually, the number of new houses exceeded the number of people willing to buy them. And with supply exceeding demand, housing prices fell, and this created a problem. ... As a result, many mortgage holders began to default. These widespread defaults had effects far beyond the housing market. See, in today's mortgage industry, home loans are often packaged together and converted into financial products called mortgage-backed securities. These securities were sold to investors around the world.
 Many investors assumed these securities were trustworthy and asked few questions about their actual value....
 The decline in the housing market set off a domino effect across our economy. When home values declined, borrowers defaulted on their mortgages, and investors holding mortgage-backed securities began to incur serious losses. Before long, these securities became so unreliable that they were not being bought or sold.
 Investment banks, such as Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, found themselves saddled with large amounts of assets they could not sell. They ran out of money needed to meet their immediate obligations, and they faced imminent collapse. Other banks found themselves in severe financial trouble. These banks began holding on to their money, and lending dried up. And the gears of the American financial system began grinding to a halt.
 With the situation becoming more precarious by the day, I faced a choice -- to step in with dramatic government action, or to stand back and allow the irresponsible actions of some to undermine the financial security of all. I'm a strong believer in free enterprise, so my natural instinct is to oppose government intervention.
 I believe companies that make bad decisions should be allowed to go out of business. Under normal circumstances, I would have followed this course, but these are not normal circumstances. The market is not functioning properly. There has been a widespread loss of confidence and major sectors of America's financial system are at risk of shutting down. 
 The government's top economic experts warn that without immediate action by Congress, America could slip into a financial panic and a distressing scenario would unfold. More banks could fail, including some in your community. The stock market would drop even more, which would reduce the value of your retirement account. 
 The value of your home could plummet. Foreclosures would rise dramatically. And if you own a business or a farm, you would find it harder and more expensive to get credit. More businesses would close their doors and millions of Americans could lose their jobs. Even if you have good credit history, it would be more difficult for you to get the loans you need to buy a car or send your children to college, and ultimately our country could experience a long and painful recession. ...
 I know that an economic rescue package will present a tough vote for many members of Congress. It is difficult to pass a bill that commits so much of the taxpayers' hard-earned money. ...
 Many Americans are asking, how would a rescue plan work? After much discussion, there is now widespread agreement on the principles such a plan would include. 
 It would remove the risk posed by the troubled assets, including mortgage-backed securities, now clogging the financial system. This would free banks to resume the flow of credit to American families and businesses. 
 Any rescue plan should also be designed to ensure that taxpayers are protected. It should welcome the participation of financial institutions, large and small. It should make certain that failed executives do not receive a windfall from your tax dollars. It should establish a bipartisan board to oversee the plan's implementation. And it should be enacted as soon as possible. 
 In close consultation with Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and SEC Chairman Chris Cox, I announced a plan on Friday. 
 First, the plan is big enough to solve a serious problem. Under our proposal, the federal government would put up to 700 billion taxpayer dollars on the line to purchase troubled assets that are clogging the financial system. In the short term, this will free up banks to resume the flow of credit to American families and businesses, and this will help our economy grow. 
 Second, as markets have lost confidence in mortgage-backed securities, their prices have dropped sharply. Yet the value of many of these assets will likely be higher than their current price because the vast majority of Americans will ultimately pay off their mortgages. The government is the one institution with the patience and resources to buy these assets at their current low prices and hold them until markets return to normal. And when that happens, money will flow back to the Treasury as these assets are sold, and we expect that much if not all of the tax dollars we invest will be paid back. 
 The final question is, what does this mean for your economic future? Well, the primary steps -- purpose of the steps I've outlined tonight is to safeguard the financial security of American workers and families and small businesses. The federal government also continues to enforce laws and regulations protecting your money. The Treasury Department recently offered government insurance for money market mutual funds, and through the FDIC every savings account, checking account and certificate of deposit is insured by the federal government for up to $100,000. The FDIC has been in existence for 75 years and no one has ever lost a penny on an insured deposit, and this will not change. 
 Once this crisis is resolved, there will be time to update our financial regulatory structures. Our 21st-century global economy remains regulated largely by outdated 20th century laws. 
 Recently we've seen how one company can grow so large that its failure jeopardizes the entire financial system. 
 Earlier this year, Secretary Paulson proposed a blueprint that would modernize our financial regulations. For example, the Federal Reserve would be authorized to take a closer look at the operations of companies across the financial spectrum and ensure that their practices do not threaten overall financial stability. 
 There are other good ideas, and members of Congress should consider them. As they do, they must ensure that efforts to regulate Wall Street do not end up hampering our economy's ability to grow. 
 In the long run, Americans have good reason to be confident in our economic strength. Despite corrections in the marketplace and instances of abuse, democratic capitalism is the best system ever devised. It has unleashed the talents and the productivity and entrepreneurial spirit of our citizens. It has made this country the best place in the world to invest and do business. And it gives our economy the flexibility and resilience to absorb shocks, adjust, and bounce back. 
 Our economy is facing a moment of great challenge, but we've overcome tough challenges before, and we will overcome this one. I know that Americans sometimes get discouraged by the tone in Washington and the seemingly endless partisan struggles. Yet history has shown that in times of real trial, elected officials rise to the occasion. 
 And together we will show the world once again what kind of country America is: a nation that tackles problems head on, where leaders come together to meet great tests, and where people of every background can work hard, develop their talents, and realize their dreams. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); TUITION FEES (69%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); JOB CREATION (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



777 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: NORTH KOREANS BAR INSPECTORS AT NUCLEAR SITE

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ELAINE SCIOLINO; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and Elaine Sciolino from Paris. William J. Broad and Thom Shanker contributed reporting from New York, and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
North Korea's move to resume the reprocessing of plutonium, perhaps as soon as next week, left the country on the verge of restarting a nuclear weapons program whose shutdown had been portrayed by the White House as a significant diplomatic achievement.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Wednesday that the United States still hoped to preserve a hard-won agreement that called for the North to dismantle its nuclear reactor. But North Korea has refused to resume talks, and no new ones are planned.
 The International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna announced Wednesday that North Korea had barred international inspectors from a reprocessing plant at its nuclear reactor complex in Yongbyon. The agency said that North Korea, which tested its first nuclear device in 2006 and is believed to have enough plutonium for at least six nuclear bombs, intended to resume production of nuclear weapons-grade fuel there within a week.
 While reversible in theory, any resumption of nuclear work would violate the terms of the agreement, which was announced with fanfare in June and solidified, it appeared, by North Korea's public demolition of a cooling tower at Yongbyon. 
 North Korea's actions have at best returned negotiations to where they stood months ago, leaving little time for a resolution before the next American administration takes office in January.
 Senior Bush administration officials said Wednesday that they believed that North Korea was engaging in transparent brinkmanship to extract concessions as the United States sought to cement the country's commitment to give up its nuclear weapons with a strict and intrusive verification system.
 ''They don't have a lot of ways to get leverage, and this is one of them,'' one Bush administration official who was involved in the negotiations said of North Korea's move. The official, like others interviewed for this article, spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic efforts and internal administration assessments.
 North Korea's actions are likely to provide fodder to conservative critics of the administration, who say that North Korea has no intention of giving up its nuclear program and that it is blackmailing the United States and its negotiating partners to subsidize North Korea's failing economy.
 But its elaborately choreographed violation of the agreement in publicly announced steps over the past few weeks could also be part of a tough negotiating stance that North Korea feels is necessary to obtain the security guarantees and financial aid the country was promised as part of the nuclear accord. 
 North Korea's negotiators have strenuously complained that the Bush administration has yet to fulfill its promise to remove North Korea from a list of state sponsors of terrorism, as President Bush announced in June that he was prepared to do, and instead has made new demands.
 Those include requiring North Korea to accept the verification system before the United States would carry out reciprocal steps, a condition that a senior administration official acknowledged was not put in writing.
 ''It is, I think, more serious than just brinkmanship on the part of the North Koreans,'' said Charles L. Pritchard, a former ambassador and special envoy for talks with North Korea who is now president of the Korean Economic Institute in Washington. ''They're trying to recoup what they've given away for nothing, from their point of view.''
 If North Korea follows through, it would be the second time the country resumed production of the material for nuclear weapons during President Bush's time in office. In acting now, when the White House is already consumed with a financial crisis, North Korea may be adopting a strategy similar to one it employed at the beginning of 2003, when it restarted its nuclear program just as the United States was preparing to invade Iraq.
 Complicating the matter is uncertainty over the health of North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, who administration officials said Wednesday had a stroke last month that debilitated him physically and possibly mentally. That has raised concerns that hard-liners may be acting forcefully to demonstrate that North Korea faces no leadership crisis during Mr. Kim's illness.
 American and European officials, trying to assess the seriousness of the North Korean intentions, noted that so far, experts who have been overseeing the dismantling of North Korea's nuclear program, including some Americans, had not yet been expelled from the country. ''We don't see the tensions on the ground,'' the senior administration official said.
 The reprocessing plant, which turns spent nuclear fuel rods into weapons-grade plutonium, is the most secret part of the Yongbyon nuclear complex. Its reactivation would be significant, even though the main reactor has been partly dismantled under the agreement. 
 Moreover, allowing international inspectors to monitor activity at the plant was one of the most significant concessions the North made as part of the agreement on ending its program. If inspectors remain barred from the plant, it will become far more difficult to keep track of how much nuclear fuel the North produces.
 ''There are no more seals and surveillance equipment in place at the reprocessing facility,'' Melissa Fleming, a spokeswoman for the International Atomic Energy Agency, said in Vienna.
 Arms control experts say that if the plant is in good repair, it will take little time to restart the plutonium-making process, and that making pure plutonium from spent fuel rods once the process starts could be only weeks away. It would take two to three years, by contrast, for North Korea to produce extractable new plutonium if it restarted its reactor.
 The Bush administration immediately warned North Korea not to reactivate the plant, while urging it to resume negotiations on ways to verify its lengthy declaration of its nuclear activities over many years.
 Ms. Rice, in New York for the United NationsGeneral Assembly session, said a decision by North Korea to resume reprocessing nuclear material ''would only deepen its isolation.'' She has met with the foreign ministers of China, South Korea and Russia, all parties to the negotiations with the North Koreans.
 ''Everyone knows what the path ahead is,'' she said. ''The path ahead is for there to be agreement on a verification protocol so that we can continue along the path of the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.''
 She did not elaborate on what additional steps the administration would take. So far at least, officials said, it has not decided to retaliate by, for example, suspending shipments of heavy fuel oil that China, Russia, South Korea and the United States have been making under the agreement. The next American shipment is not due until October. Its fate could depend on whether the North Koreans move ahead.
 The impasse over the verification of North Korea's denuclearization reflected deep suspicions on both sides.
 Mr. Bush has been criticized by some conservatives who say that the initial accord was not vigorous enough in verifying the North's nuclear activities, including what officials say is a separate and still secret uranium program and evidence of the transfer of nuclear technology to other countries, specifically Syria.
 ''We're still not convinced they have given us a true picture of what they may or may not have done,'' the senior administration official said Wednesday, underscoring, he said, the need for a vigorous protocol for future inspections.
 The official involved in the negotiations said that the United States had presented a draft of its verification proposals to the North Koreans in August and that it included ''the max.'' ''We put the most we could on paper, anticipating they would bargain,'' the official said.
 Derek J. Mitchell, a former Defense Department official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said that the American insistence on extracting a verification system was justified and probably difficult for Mr. Bush and his most hawkish aides to accept otherwise.
 ''I'm not sure any action can be taken, or is politically viable, without a demonstration of North Korean good faith,'' he said.
 At the same time, though, Mr. Mitchell noted that the United States had so far not conceded much, undercutting the process.
 While Mr. Bush gave Congress 45 days notice that he intended to remove North Korea from a list of terrorist sponsors, he did not take that step before that window closed on Aug. 11. Also, he lifted sanctions under the Trading With the Enemy Act but imposed new ones under a little publicized emergency declaration he issued the same day in June.
 ''We haven't given up much yet,'' Mr. Mitchell said, adding that he, like others, assumed that there was little chance for an agreement during the final months of this administration. ''Meanwhile, they have frozen their program. It is step by step, action for action. We can't cut corners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A recent satellite image shows the nuclear complex in Yongbyon, North Korea. The International Atomic Energy Agency said North Korea intended to resume production of weapons-grade fuel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIGITALGLOBE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TERRORISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



778 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Japan Gets New Prime Minister, Veteran of the Governing Party

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Taro Aso, a veteran politician who fought for years to win Japan's top political post, was officially named prime minister on Wednesday by the lower house of Parliament, becoming the country's fourth premier in two years. 
 In his first news conference as prime minister, Mr. Aso, 68, said his priority was to revive the economy, which economists believe may have already slipped into a recession. He also pledged to renew an unpopular naval refueling mission in the Indian Ocean in support of the American-led war in Afghanistan.
 But Mr. Aso avoided answering the question that has loomed over all other issues since his predecessor, Yasuo Fukuda, resigned abruptly three weeks ago: When will the new prime minister call a general election?
 Depending on the answer, Mr. Aso's administration could prove even more short-lived than those of his two predecessors, each of which lasted only a year. 
 Mr. Aso's party, the Liberal Democrats, who have held power for more than half a century but whose popularity has plummeted because of a series of scandals and episodes of mismanagement in the last two years, must dissolve the lower house of Parliament and hold a general election by next September. But they are expected to call elections early, possibly as early as November, in order to take advantage of the traditional bounce in the approval ratings following the start of a new administration.
 Opinion polls by Japan's major newspapers will provide a hint in the next few days as to whether that bounce will be enough to head off a victory by the main opposition Democratic Party, which seized the less powerful upper house of Parliament last year. 
 Even if Mr. Aso's party clings to power, a significant loss of seats may force him to step down as both prime minister and party president. 
 In his new role, Mr. Aso formed a cabinet geared toward an election by appointing allies and familiar faces from his governing Liberal Democratic Party.
 ''Basically, I'll fight in the election with these members,'' Mr. Aso said. ''If you ask me how we'll fight, we'll fight fairly and squarely.''
 Ideologically, Mr. Aso's cabinet is further to the right of Mr. Fukuda's, and includes several members who, like the new prime minister himself, stem from the Liberal Democratic Party's right wing. It also includes politicians who, like Mr. Aso, are considered less committed to fiscal discipline and reforms, and more open to the traditional pork that won the party support, especially in rural areas.
 Shoichi Nakagawa, 55, a former trade minister who favors increased government spending, was selected as finance minister. Hirofumi Nakasone, 62, the son of a former prime minister, Yasuhiro Nakasone, was appointed foreign minister; though not known for his foreign affairs expertise, Mr. Nakasone leads legislative friendship associations with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia.
 Japan has maintained refueling ships in the Indian Ocean to support American and other vessels involved in the war in Afghanistan. The future of the Afghan mission has been in question, however, as the law authorizing it comes up for renewal in January, and the opposition Democratic Party is against renewal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (91%); YASUO FUKUDA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (72%) JAPAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



779 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Stress Rises In Markets For Credit; Yields Fall

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; David Barboza and Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A new bout of anxiety gripped the credit markets on Wednesday as banks hoarded cash and investors once again rushed for the safest of investments, like Treasury bills.
As President Bush prepared to address the country on Wednesday night in hopes of bolstering support for the vast bailout of the financial industry, a crucial bank interest rate that determines the cost of money for companies and consumers around the world spiked to its highest level since January.
At the same time, yields on Treasury bills fell sharply, nearly reaching the lows touched a week earlier, when many feared the nation's financial system was in jeopardy. Most financial shares declined, even as the broader stock market closed mixed. 
''The credit markets are saying that things are likely to get worse before they get better,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, an investment and research firm in Greenwich, Conn.
He added, ''It's harder for companies to get financing, and those conditions make economic weakness worse.''
With the structure of the rescue still in doubt, and a protracted political battle brewing over its fate, worries are building in the credit markets.
Investors took little solace from the news late Tuesday that Warren E. Buffett, the noted investor, had agreed to invest $5 billion in the investment bank Goldman Sachs.
Several crucial barometers pointed toward renewed stress in the credit markets. The one-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, rose nearly a fifth of a percentage point, to 3.43 percent, its highest since January.
The difference between Treasury bills and a three-month Libor jumped to nearly 3 percentage points, from 2.5 on Tuesday, signaling deep unease among investors.
In the stock market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index seesawed up and down most of the day and closed down 2.35 points, to 1,185.87 points. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 29 points, to 10,825.17. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.35 points, to 2,155.68.
To some investors, the markets' skeptical reaction to the news out of Washington and from Goldman Sachs appears to be part of a pattern that was set with the near collapse of Bear Stearns. Investors cheer initially, hoping government intervention will help, but after further thought realize that the nation's economic and financial troubles will not be resolved easily.
''There are a lot of qualms about it,'' Martin Fridson, chief executive of Fridson Investment Advisors, said about the Treasury proposal to buy troubled assets. ''The same questions still hang over us, which is what is this stuff worth?''
A report released on Wednesday showed that the housing market, where many of the financial problems originated, remains weak. Sales of previously owned homes fell 2.2 percent in August, to a 4.91 million annual rate, down from 5.02 million in July, according to the National Association of Realtors. But there were a few signs of improvement, the number of homes for sale fell 7 percent, to 4.26 million.
For financial firms it was another tough day. The cost to insure Goldman's corporate debt dropped immediately after Mr. Buffett's announcement, but climbed higher throughout the day, according to Credit Derivatives Research. By the end of the afternoon, insurance protection on Goldman Sachs debt was slightly more expensive to buy than it was on Tuesday, a sign that even the aura of Mr. Buffett was not enough to fully placate the fears of investors.
The cost of protecting against a default by Morgan Stanley, the other investment bank that this week agreed to become a bank holding company, surged toward the record highs of last week.
A big source of stress in the credit market appears to be coming from money market funds, the traditionally ultra-safe short-term investment vehicles. Over the last week, retail and institutional investors have been moving hundreds of billions of dollars from prime money market funds to government funds, because they are worried about potential losses after the net asset value of one large fund fell below $1 a share.
That has forced many money market fund managers to sell debts issued by corporations, known as commercial paper, and go into Treasury bills, creating a scramble for government-backed debt and severely reducing demand for corporate debt.
''When the money markets are attacked as they were, that is to me, and a lot of other people, a sign that there is a sense of panic out there,'' said Milton J. Ezrati, senior economist and market strategist at Lord Abbett & Company, an investment firm in Jersey City.
At the end of last week, the Federal Reserve and Treasury announced several measures to ease the strain on money market funds and reassure investors that their money was protected. Those moves appear to have helped. The outflow of money from prime money market funds has slowed significantly in recent days, according to iMoneyNet, a research firm. But analysts said that fund managers are keeping more cash on hand in case redemptions pick up again.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury bill was down 3/32, to 101 17/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 3.81 percent, up from 3.8 percent late Tuesday.
Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of two-year notes and seven-day cash management bills.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity.)
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. (pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (61%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



780 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: In Their Own Words: The Debate Dispute

 BODY:
Remarks by John McCain on Wednesday in New York, as transcribed by CQ Transcriptions:
 ''America this week faces an historic crisis in our financial system. We must pass legislation to address this crisis. If we do not, credit will dry up with devastating consequences for our economy. People will no longer be able to buy homes, and their life savings will be at stake. Businesses will not have enough money to pay their employees. If we do not act, every corner of our country will be impacted. We cannot allow this to happen. ...
 Tomorrow morning, I'll suspend my campaign and return to Washington after speaking at the Clinton Global Initiative. I've spoken to Senator Obama and informed him of my decision, and I've asked him to join me. 
 I'm calling on the president to convene a leadership meeting from both houses of Congress, including Senator Obama and myself. It's time for both parties to come together to solve this problem. We must meet as Americans, not as Democrats or Republicans, and we must meet until this crisis is resolved.
 I'm directing my campaign to work with the Obama campaign and the Commission on Presidential Debates to delay Friday night's debate until we have taken action to address this crisis.
 I'm confident that before the markets open on Monday, we can achieve consensus on legislation that will stabilize our financial markets, protect taxpayers and homeowners, and earn the confidence of the American people.''
 Remarks by Barack Obama on Wednesday in Clearwater, Fla., as transcribed by CQ Transcriptions:
 ''I wanted to have a chance to talk to you, because obviously this is a moment of great uncertainty in America. As I mentioned at the rally today, the era of greed and irresponsibility on Wall Street and in Washington has led us to a financial crisis as serious as any we've faced since the Great Depression.
 And there's much blame to go around for causing this crisis, but we're now here.
 Every American has a stake in solving this crisis and saving our financial system from collapse, because if we don't act soon, then people's jobs, people's savings, the economic security of millions of Americans will be put at risk. ...
 So the clock is ticking. We have to act swiftly, but we have to also get it right. And that means everyone, Republicans and Democrats, the White House and Congress, need to work together to come up with a solution that protects American taxpayers and our economy without rewarding those whose greed helped bring us to this point. This cannot fall victim to the usual partisan politics or special interest lobbying. ...
 With respect to the debates, it's my belief that this is exactly the time when the American people need to hear from the person who, in approximately 40 days, will be responsible for dealing with this mess. And I think that it is going to be part of the president's job to deal with more than one thing at once. I think there's no reason why we can't be constructive in helping to solve this problem and also tell the American people what we believe, and where we stand, and where we want to take the country.
 So in my mind, actually, it's more important than ever that we present ourselves to the American people and try to describe where we want to take the country and where we want to take the economy, as well as dealing with some of the issues of foreign policy that were initially the subject of the debate.''
 Joint statement of Senators McCain and Obama:
 ''The American people are facing a moment of economic crisis. No matter how this began, we all have a responsibility to work through it and restore confidence in our economy. The jobs, savings and prosperity of the American people are at stake. 
 Now is a time to come together -- Democrats and Republicans -- in a spirit of cooperation for the sake of the American people. The plan that has been submitted to Congress by the Bush administration is flawed, but the effort to protect the American economy must not fail. 
 This is a time to rise above politics for the good of the country. We cannot risk an economic catastrophe. Now is our chance to come together to prove that Washington is once again capable of leading this country.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); POLITICS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



781 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Letterman, Spurned

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
Senator John McCain may have disappointed many expectant voters with the decision to suspend his campaign, but none more so than a late-night talk-show host on CBS. 
 The host, David Letterman, was so unhappy that Mr. McCain canceled his scheduled ''Late Show'' appearance on Wednesday that he spent much of the first segment assailing the senator's decision.
 Mr. Letterman told his audience that Mr. McCain had called him directly to cancel for the early evening taping of the show in Manhattan. After expressing to the audience his admiration for Mr. McCain and his sacrifice as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, Mr. Letterman said, ''When you call up at the last minute and cancel, that's not the John McCain I know.'' He suggested ''somebody must have put something in his Metamucil.''
 Mr. Letterman said Mr. McCain had said the economy was ''about to crater,'' which necessitated that he get to Washington right away. Mr. Letterman then suggested that Mr. McCain should not be suspending his campaign at all, and that he could have ''sent in the second-string quarterback,'' his vice-presidential running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, to fill in for him. After suggesting that Ms. Palin should be prepared to ''be ready,'' because ''the poor guy is getting a little older,'' Mr. Letterman reconsidered, saying of Ms. Palin's readiness, ''Don't get me started.''
 His critique reached a high point when he learned that at the very moment Mr. McCain was supposed to be on the seat next to him being interviewed, he was at the nearby CBS News Center, getting ready to be interviewed by the CBS News anchor, Katie Couric.
 He asked Keith Olbermann, the MSNBC host and vituperative Republican critic, who was the substitute guest, if he thought this was all Mr. McCain's fault, or whether other factors had come into play.
 ''He ditched you,'' Mr. Olbermann said.
 BILL CARTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); ATHLETES (66%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); DAVID LETTERMAN (92%); SARAH PALIN (78%); KATIE COURIC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



782 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Hold Meeting on Bailout; First Debate Up in Air: MCCAIN FOR DELAY

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF ZELENY; Patrick Healy, David M. Herszenhorn and Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Declaring that it was time to ''set politics aside,'' Senator John McCain said Wednesday that he would temporarily stop campaigning and seek to delay Friday's debate with Senator Barack Obama to return to Washington to help forge an agreement on a proposed $700 billion bailout of financial institutions before Congress.
The Obama campaign rejected the call by Mr. McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, to delay the debate, and aides noted that Mr. McCain only made the offer after Mr. Obama reached out to his opponent asking him to issue a joint statement calling for a bipartisan resolution to the financial crisis.
The political maneuvering came as the financial bailout continued to dominate Washington, the headlines and the concerns of ordinary Americans. On Wednesday evening, both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, accepted President Bush's invitation to meet with him on Thursday to address the crisis. 
Mr. McCain's actions not only cast doubt on whether the highly anticipated debate would come off, but also thrust an unpredictable new element into the negotiations for the bailout, with some Democrats warning that Mr. McCain's intervention could derail progress being made on the rescue package.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, said Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama should not return to Washington and inject presidential politics into the bailout negotiations.
''We need leadership, not a photo op,'' a statement issued by Mr. Reid said.
But Republicans, eager for political cover from Mr. McCain on a bailout proposal that members of both parties see as deeply unpopular in the country, embraced his return. ''The threats to Americans, and their homes, savings and retirements, is not a partisan problem, and it won't be fixed with a partisan approach,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, who called Mr. McCain's attempt to help forge a deal an ''outstanding idea.''
Explaining his decision to reject Mr. McCain's call to postpone their debate in Oxford, Miss., Mr. Obama cited the gravity of the nation's financial crisis.
''It is my belief that this is exactly the time when the American people need to hear from the person who, in approximately 40 days, will be responsible for dealing with this mess,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It is going to be part of the president's job to deal with more than one thing at once.''
Mr. McCain's decision seeking to postpone the first debate was yet another unpredictable, daring step taken by his campaign over the last month: its selection of Gov. Sarah Palin as a vice-presidential candidate shook up the race in late August, and days later the campaign stripped down the first day of the Republican National Convention because of the threat of Hurricane Gustav.
In the midst of the confusion, officials with the Commission on Presidential Debates said that they were moving forward with the debate and that talks with the McCain campaign throughout the day had not persuaded them on Mr. McCain's position. ''We believe the public will be well served by having all of the debates go forward as scheduled,'' the commission said.
The meeting with Mr. Bush on Thursday was precipitated by a call from Mr. McCain, who cast his request as a matter of urgent national priority. ''Following Sept. 11, our national leaders came together at a time of crisis,'' he told a small group of reporters, while reading the brief statement from a teleprompter, in a small ballroom at the Hilton New York hotel. ''We must show that kind of patriotism now.''
Wednesday night, the two candidates issued the joint statement that Mr. Obama had requested, calling for bipartisan unity to solve the crisis.
''Now is a time to come together Democrats and Republicans in a spirit of cooperation for the sake of the American people,'' the statement said. ''The plan that has been submitted to Congress by the Bush administration is flawed, but the effort to protect the American economy must not fail.''
Mr. McCain made his decision to try to delay the debate as he has been struggling to find his political footing on the financial crisis and a number of recent polls showed that more Americans trust Mr. Obama to handle the economy than Mr. McCain. Mr. McCain's campaign manager, Rick Davis, has also come under scrutiny this week because of his ties to Freddie Mac, one of the mortgage giants at the heart of the credit crisis.
Mr. Reid's opposition to Mr. McCain's return was described as disingenuous by Mr. McCain's advisers, who only hours earlier had said Mr. McCain was returning to Washington in part as a response to Mr. Reid. ''Senator Reid last night made clear in his view that it was up to John McCain to provide leadership on this matter,'' Steve Schmidt, a senior McCain campaign adviser, told reporters on Wednesday afternoon.
The debate on Friday was to focus on Mr. McCain's perceived strength, foreign policy. Mr. McCain had not planned to devote large blocks of time to debate practice as did Mr. Obama, who was holing up with a tight circle of advisers at a hotel in Clearwater, Fla., on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday to prepare. Mr. McCain had a preparatory session on Wednesday afternoon at the Morgan Library in Manhattan, but advisers said it had been interrupted by his decision, announced immediately afterward, to suspend his campaign.
Democrats were withering in their reaction to Mr. McCain's decision.
''Now that we are on the verge of making a deal, John McCain airdrops himself in to help us make a deal,'' said Representative Barney Frank, of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. ''Frankly, we are going to have to interrupt a negotiating session tomorrow between Democrats and Republicans on a bill where I think we are getting pretty close to troop down to the White House for a photo op.''
''What, does McCain think the Senate will still be working at 9 p.m. Friday?'' Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania said in an interview, referring to the scheduled start time of the debate. ''I think this is all political.''
Throughout the day, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama were locked in an unusual back-and-forth about the bailout and Mr. McCain's decision to suspend his campaign. The exchange started with a morning telephone call from Mr. Obama to Mr. McCain to ask whether Mr. McCain would issue a joint statement on the government bailout plan. But Mr. McCain was not available to take the call, and the two did not connect until six hours later, about 2:30 p.m.
At that point, they had what the McCain campaign described as a 10-minute phone call, but the substance of it remained in dispute between the two campaigns. Mr. Schmidt of the McCain campaign said Mr. McCain told Mr. Obama that he was going to suspend his campaign and return to Washington and that he had called Mr. Bush to ask that he convene a meeting on the crisis.
But Mr. Obama was left with the impression from the conversation that Mr. McCain was ''mulling over'' suspending the debate as an option, not a final decision.
''Apparently, this was something that, you know, he was more decisive about in his own mind,'' Mr. Obama told reporters.
Mr. Obama conceded being taken by surprise by the afternoon announcement from Mr. McCain, which Obama aides said occurred about 10 minutes after the phone conversation between the two men.
Mr. Obama stopped short of suggesting that Mr. McCain was playing politics by calling for a delay in their first presidential debate, and he continued with the same low-key tone he has employed throughout the financial crisis. But Mr. Obama did say with a glint of humor that both he and Mr. McCain were capable of engaging in the debate and negotiations in Congress at the same time.
''If it turns out that we need to be in Washington, we've both got big planes -- we've painted our slogans on the sides of them,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They can get us from Washington, D.C., to Mississippi fairly quickly.''
Two members of the Commission on Presidential Debates, the nonpartisan group that has sponsored the debates since 1988, said Wednesday that they were pursuing a strategy of trying to force Mr. McCain's hand by having the full commission release a strongly worded statement saying the debate would go forward as planned.
The commission members noted that past debates had been held during moments of crisis, like as the attack on the destroyer Cole during the 2000 debates, and said they believed both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama could follow through on their commitment to participate in Friday night's debate while exercising their duties as senators.
''Our role is not to play referee on their involvement in or concern about the bailout talks, but to hold a debate that all sides have agreed to,'' said one commission member, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because members had agreed not to speak beyond the commission statement released Wednesday. ''At this point, we see no reason to cancel the debate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''It is going to be part of the president's job to deal with more than one thing at once,'' Senator Barack Obama said in rejecting a call to postpone the debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator John McCain, who said Wednesday in New York that he was suspending his campaign to try to help resolve pending bailout legislation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); SARAH PALIN (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



783 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Stopgap Spending Bill, Delaying Major Decisions

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Unwilling to risk one last fiscal standoff with President Bush, the House on Wednesday passed a stopgap spending measure that pushes critical spending and energy decisions off until 2009 and into the hands of the next president.
 The legislation, which would keep the federal government operating through March 6, represents a gamble by Democrats that they can get a better deal on domestic spending and other initiatives from the next occupant of the White House. 
 One of the final must-pass measures of the year, the bill, technically known as a continuing resolution and approved on a vote of 370 to 58, totals more than $630 billion. It provides nearly $23 billion in hurricane and flood relief as well as $25 billion in loan guarantees for the nation's auto manufacturers. 
 The bill ships $488 billion to the Pentagon, provides $40 billion for domestic security operations and spends $41 billion to finance medical care for military veterans in the fiscal year that starts on Oct. 1. The money for veterans health care is $1.8 billion above Mr. Bush's request and $4.1 billion above this year's amount.
 The measure, which keeps other agencies operating at current levels, is expected to clear the Senate. But it was hardly a triumph for Democrats, who have been bruised in a series of budget battles with the White House over the last two years. 
 Faced with strong administration and Republican opposition, Democrats decided to let a longstanding ban on oil exploration along the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts expire rather than risk a government shutdown on the eve of an election. They were also forced to give up their push for added unemployment benefits and food stamp aid in the bill, leaving them frustrated with their inability to secure concessions from the White House.
 ''The good news is that this is the last time we have to deal with the president and his budgetary priorities,'' said Representative James P. McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 The decision to let the drilling moratorium lapse after 26 years was especially bitter for Democrats, who say that Republicans have distorted the issue for political gain and that new drilling will do nothing to lower gas prices. 
 But Republicans successfully elevated Democratic opposition into a top political argument and Democrats had to give ground, leaving Republicans celebrating the end of the drilling moratorium as well as a more recent ban on the leasing of public lands in the Rocky Mountains for potential production of fuel from shale.
 ''Lifting the offshore oil drilling moratorium is a big victory for the American people that few would have predicted just a few months ago,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate.
 The change would have no immediate consequences, though theoretically it would clear the way for oil rigs to go up as close as three miles to shore in some locations. Offshore oil leases are awarded through a lengthy process that typically takes years, although it was unclear what might happen with any active leases that had already been awarded. Both sides say the future of offshore drilling will be decided by the next president, but even Democrats acknowledge that the far-reaching ban covering both coasts will probably never be put back in its entirety, given that they agreed to some new limited offshore drilling.
 Members of Congress from Michigan rejoiced at the bill's inclusion of $25 billion worth of loans to auto companies to help them retool manufacturing plants to produce hybrid and electric vehicles. Congress set aside $7.5 billion to cover the cost of possible loan defaults though that money would not be used if the loans are repaid.
 Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, said the low-interest loans would enable American automakers to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles. The high cost of gasoline is creating a huge new demand for vehicles with higher mileage per gallon, she said.
 Michigan lawmakers of both parties mobilized a campaign to secure the loans, and they predicted that the auto industry would fully repay the loans. Moreover, they noted that the two major candidates for president -- Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois -- had expressed support for the loan package.
 ''This is not a bailout,'' said Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan. ''Don't associate this with what you see happening on Wall Street.''
 Ms. Stabenow said the loans would ''create good-paying jobs at a time when Michigan's unemployment rate leads the nation at 8.9 percent.'' But, she said, a healthy auto industry is good for the nation's economy and will help tens of thousands of workers at auto suppliers around the country.
 After a stubborn impasse over spending last year and an earlier veto showdown over war spending, Democrats essentially gave up trying to pass individual spending bills this year. Their hope is that they can win the White House in November and find a more welcoming ear on questions of spending for health care, education, conservation programs and offshore drilling.
 But the way the spending package was put together by Democratic leaders left Republicans complaining they had been cut out of the process. ''Very few people have any idea what is in it,'' said Representative Jerry Lewis of California, the senior Republican on the Appropriations Committee.
 Yet with the drilling ban lifted, the money for national security agencies and scores of projects for individual lawmakers, Republicans generally backed the measure despite their criticism.
 The decision to extend federal funding into early next year could eliminate the need for Congress to return after Nov. 4 for a post-election, lame-duck session, but they could still return to take up other issues, like trade deals sought by the administration.
 As they sought to clear their desks, lawmakers by a vote of 392 to 39 also approved a separate bill authorizing $612 billion for national defense programs in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. The Senate, which helped write the bill, is expected to pass it quickly and send it to President Bush, who has indicated that he will sign it.
 House and Senate negotiators dropped several provisions to which the White House had objected. One such provision would have banned the use of private contractors to interrogate prisoners at United States military detention facilities.
 The bill authorizes $68 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan over the next few months and would provide a 3.9 percent pay increase for military personnel, half a percentage point more than Mr. Bush requested. The bill would require the Defense Department to report to Congress on the details of any agreements with Iraq on the stationing of American forces there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Robert F. Bennett discussed energy while, from left, Senators David Vitter, Mitch McConnell, Saxby Chambliss and Kay Bailey Hutchison listened.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (74%); MILITARY BENEFITS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (73%); VETERANS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); HURRICANES (69%); OIL & GAS LEASES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JAMES P MCGOVERN (58%); DAVID VITTER (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); ROBERT BENNETT (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



784 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: For the Nominees, New Roles and New Risks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama became the leaders of their respective parties in an entirely new way Wednesday, as Congress looked to them for guidance -- and political cover -- on the proposed $700 billion rescue of the financial sector, a bailout that many lawmakers fear will prove unpopular even if they think it necessary.
 The new role is a risky one for both presidential nominees. It puts them directly on the line over an issue whose politics are mutating almost by the hour, forcing them to balance a sense that the country is angry about the prospect of being stuck with the bill for Wall Street's excesses against a chance that failure to act quickly could have dire economic consequences. 
 Whatever the risk, Senators McCain and Obama were all-in by the end of the day Wednesday, having been invited by President Bush to the White House on Thursday to help negotiate a deal that could win enough support from both parties to pass.
 The politics are especially complex for Mr. McCain, who took the bigger gamble earlier in the day by assertively claiming a leadership role, saying he would suspend his campaign to help broker a solution and calling on Mr. Obama to postpone their first debate, scheduled for Friday night. 
 After weeks of increasingly aggressive attacks on Mr. Obama -- and no doubt aware of a series of polls suggesting an erosion in his support -- Mr. McCain cast himself as willing to set aside partisan politics to do what was right for the country, and challenged Mr. Obama to do the same. But he now also faces the task of rallying support from his own party, which is divided over the rescue and has long viewed him with a degree of wariness.
 For days the two candidates had been offering general principles and distancing themselves in similar ways from the proposal that the Bush administration had put on the table. But if their substantive approaches were not very different, their tones were, with Mr. McCain sounding increasingly populist and Mr. Obama more technocratic.
 That in turn had stoked the fears of Congressional Republicans. Many worried that they were being asked to go out on a limb for an unpopular incumbent president, only to risk being chastised for doing so by their party's presidential nominee should he come out against whatever plan was eventually adopted, leaving them exposed to a backlash from voters. 
 In that sense, Mr. McCain's move Wednesday was welcome news to Republicans on Capitol Hill.
 Democrats in Congress have been more united in their willingness to go along with a plan if they can win most of the concessions they are seeking from the administration. But they, too, looked to their nominee for guidance. Many were reluctant to tie Mr. Obama's hands by authorizing a lame-duck administration to spend money he hoped to use to expand access to health care, foster research for renewable energy and cut taxes for the middle class.
 After Mr. McCain got out ahead of him Wednesday by publicly committing himself to help find a solution, Mr. Obama remained cautious, suggesting that he would not necessarily rush back to Washington or plunge into the negotiations himself. Still, Mr. McCain's tactic focused attention on the two of them as the political leaders with the most power to get a deal completed.
 So after trying to float above the issue, both men found themselves holding perhaps more sway than they would have cared to over the fate of a financial-crisis solution that may offer no good answers, only less bad ones.
 Now Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are each feeling their way in a confused environment where the politics are almost as tangled as the complicated credit default swaps that have snarled the financial sector. The two candidates are being tested in real time, with real consequences, as lawmakers look to them for cues as they seek to balance their impulses to strike populist notes of defiance against the bailout with the need to adopt a solution that may or may not work but that could certainly alienate voters. 
 ''I guess I wouldn't want to be in either of their shoes,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a former Treasury Department economist who has worked for Republican presidents but has been a severe critic of President Bush.
 The candidates had been inching forward almost daily toward engaging in the bailout. Mr. McCain struck a negative tone Monday in Scranton, Pa., warning that ''we won't solve a problem caused by poor oversight with a plan that has no oversight.'' On Tuesday he continued to press for changes to the proposal, but sounded a more urgent note that something must be done, declaring in Michigan that ''further inaction is simply not an option.'' By Wednesday afternoon, he had announced that he would suspend his campaign to try to forge consensus on the rescue.
 Mr. Obama, too, went from offering broad critiques of the proposal, and general outlines for changes, to calling Mr. McCain on Wednesday with the idea that they could present a united front on the issue, laying out the areas of common ground on a way forward. (Both have called for greater oversight and for assurances that taxpayer dollars not be used to enrich executives, among other provisions.) 
 Now the question is who will be seen as politicizing the issue, and who will come across as more presidential: Mr. McCain, with his decision to suspend campaigning and his striking call to delay the first of the debates, or Mr. Obama, with his warning that presidents must be able to multitask and that a dramatic return to Washington would ''infuse Capitol Hill with presidential politics.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A media center in Oxford, Miss., was empty Wednesday, awaiting reporters due to arrive Friday for a presidential debate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



785 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: For Record Companies, Optimism Isn't Irrational

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
A joke went around Columbia Records last week as the economic crisis spread across Wall Street. Watching financial titans like Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch stagger, the label's executives counted their blessings. 
 ''At least we're in the record business,'' they told themselves, according to Mark Di Dia, Columbia's general manager.
 It's been a long time since people in the recorded music industry have considered themselves lucky. And the black humor at Columbia underscores that sales of the CD, the industry's core product, have been in a seemingly inexorable decline for eight years. So far this year CD sales are down 16.6 percent from the same point in 2007, on top of an overall sales slide of more than 36 percent from 2000 to 2007. 
 But going into the last three months of the year, when more music is sold than at any other time, labels, retailers and others in the business say they are somewhat optimistic -- or at least less pessimistic than usual. Potential hits are scheduled this fall from Beyonce, AC/DC, Nickelback, Taylor Swift, T.I., Fall Out Boy, Toby Keith and Kenny Chesney. In December, Kanye West and 50 Cent are expected to release new albums a week apart; if that happens, the publicity of a big sales showdown could help both rivals sell more records.
 As the economy suffers, the music industry is hoping an old truism will hold: that as a relatively low-cost commodity with sentimental attachments, music will prove recession-proof. ''In a bad economy people retreat to cheaper forms of entertainment,'' said Richard Greenfield, a media analyst at Pali Research in New York. ''CDs have held up a lot better than I had expected this year.''
 Last week at least Wall Street's ills did not scare consumers from record stores. Metallica's new album, ''Death Magnetic'' (Warner Brothers), sold a respectable 337,000 copies in its second week out, and ''Year of the Gentleman'' (Def Jam) by the R&B crooner Ne-Yo moved 250,000, Nielsen SoundScan reported. Total sales for the Top 200 albums were at 2.53 million, the highest since July, when Miley Cyrus released her latest record.
 Even with the rise of digital music sales and the disappearance of chains like Tower Records, which closed its 89 American stores at the end of 2006, physical retail in the fourth quarter remains critical to the labels. More than a third of music purchases for the year are made in the last three months, according to Nielsen SoundScan; Gallery of Sound, a chain in Pennsylvania, does almost half its annual business in the holiday season, said Joe Nardone Jr., an owner.
 Despite its importance -- or perhaps because of it -- the end of the year has become more chaotic for music retailers, as labels shuffle their calendars and release or delay albums with less and less advance notice. In years past, major release dates would be locked in ''probably midsummer,'' said Andrew Gyger, senior music product manager for Virgin Entertainment Group. 
 ''Now it's the end of summer, beginning of fall, and there's still a lot of movement,'' Mr. Gyger said, citing U2's recent delay of a new album that had been expected for the fall. ''For something as big as U2, that obviously makes a huge difference in the planning when we don't have a massive release like that.''
 Retailers are still waiting to hear if new albums by Dr. Dre, Eminem, Jay-Z and even Guns N' Roses will come out this year, as have been rumored for months. 
 Some independent record stores are enjoying relatively healthy sales as other big chains have died out and they have diversified their offerings to sell more profitable items like DVDs and clothing. Newbury Comics, a chain of music and pop-culture stores in New England, recently opened two shops, expanding to 28 locations. ''Four years ago our market had an HMV Superstore, two Tower Records, and then Virgin Megastore came in,'' said Mike Dreese, the chief executive. ''Those are all gone.''
 But big-box stores like Wal-Mart still account for up to two thirds of all music sales, and many of those chains are reducing space for music. That poses a greater threat to sales than a soft economy, Mr. Greenfield said. 
 ''When is the next big step down at Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy and Circuit City in CD floor space?'' he said. ''It hasn't happened this year, but it sounds like it's going to happen at some point over the next year. The question is just when.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); MUSIC STORES (89%); MUSIC (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); RETAIL SALES (75%); RETAILERS (75%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (56%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (79%); TAYLOR SWIFT (58%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (58%); TOBY KEITH (58%); KENNY CHESNEY (58%); KANYE WEST (57%); MILEY CYRUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



786 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Hold Meeting on Bailout; First Debate Up in Air

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Mark Landler and Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush appealed to the nation Wednesday night to support a $700 billion plan to avert a widespread financial meltdown, and signaled that he is willing to accept tougher controls over how the money is spent. 
 As Democrats and the administration negotiated details of the package late into the night, the presidential candidates of both major parties planned to meet Mr. Bush at the White House on Thursday, along with leaders of Congress. The president said he hoped the session would ''speed our discussions toward a bipartisan bill.''
 Mr. Bush used a prime-time address to warn Americans that ''a long and painful recession'' could occur if Congress does not act quickly. 
 ''Our entire economy is in danger,'' he said. 
 On Capitol Hill, Democrats said that progress toward a deal had come after the White House had offered two major concessions: a plan to limit pay of executives whose firms seek government assistance, and a provision that would give taxpayers an equity stake in some of the firms so that the government can profit if the companies prosper in the future. Details of those provisions, and many others, were still under discussion. 
 Mr. Bush's televised address, and his extraordinary offer to bring together Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, and Senator John McCain, the Republican, just weeks before the election underscored a growing sense of urgency on the part of the administration that Congress must act to avert an economic collapse.
 It was the first time in Mr. Bush's presidency that he delivered a prime-time speech devoted exclusively to the economy. It came at a time when deep public unease about shaky financial markets and the demise of Wall Street icons such as Lehman Brothers has been coupled with skepticism and anger directed at a government bailout that could become the most expensive in American history. 
 The administration's plan seeks to restore liquidity to the market and restore the economy by buying up distressed securities, many of them tied to mortgages, from struggling financial firms. 
 The address capped a fast-moving and chaotic day, in Washington, on the presidential campaign trail and on Wall Street.
 On Capitol Hill, delicate negotiations between Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Congressional leaders were complicated by resistance from rank-and-file lawmakers, who were fielding torrents of complaints from constituents furious that their tax money was going to be spent to clean up a mess created by high-paid financial executives.
 On Wall Street, financial markets continued to struggle. The cost of borrowing for banks, businesses and consumers shot up and investors rushed to safe havens like Treasury bills -- a reminder that credit markets, which had recovered somewhat after Mr. Paulson announced the broad outlines of the bailout plan last week, remain under severe stress, with many investors still skittish.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, said a deal could come together as early as Thursday. ''Working in a bipartisan manner, we have made progress,'' the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Representative John A. Boehner, the Republican leader, said in a joint statement. 
 ''We agree that key changes should be made to the administration's proposal. It must include basic good-government principles, including rigorous and independent oversight, strong executive compensation standards and protections for taxpayers.''
 Mr. Bush used his speech to signal that he was willing to address lawmakers' concerns, including fears that tax dollars will be used to pay Wall Street executives and that the plan would put too much authority in the hands of the Treasury secretary without sufficient oversight. 
 ''Any rescue plan should also be designed to ensure that taxpayers are protected,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It should welcome the participation of financial institutions, large and small. It should make certain that failed executives do not receive a windfall from your tax dollars. It should establish a bipartisan board to oversee the plan's implementation. And it should be enacted as soon as possible.''
 The speech came after the White House, under pressure from Republican lawmakers, opened an aggressive effort to portray the financial rescue package as crucial not just to stabilize Wall Street but to protect the livelihoods of all Americans. 
 But the White House gave careful thought to the timing; aides to Mr. Bush said they did not want to appear to have the president forcing a solution on Congress.
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Paulson, facing a second day of questioning by lawmakers, this time before the House Financial Services Committee, tried to focus as much on Main Street as Wall Street. 
 ''This entire proposal is about benefiting the American people because today's fragile financial system puts their economic well being at risk,'' Mr. Paulson said. Without action, he added: ''Americans' personal savings and the ability of consumers and business to finance spending, investment and job creation are threatened.''
 But it was the comments of Mr. Paulson, a former chief of Goldman Sachs, about limiting the pay of executives that signaled the biggest shift in the White House position and the urgency that the administration has placed in winning Congressional approval as quickly as possible. 
 ''The American people are angry about executive compensation, and rightly so,'' he said. ''No one understands pay for failure.'' 
 Officials said the legislation would almost certainly include a ban on so-called golden parachutes, the generous severance packages that many executives receive on their way out the door, for firms that seek government help. The measure also is likely to include a mechanism for firms to recover any bonus or incentive pay based on corporate earnings or other results that later turn out to have been overstated. 
 Democrats were also working to include tax provisions that would cap the amount of an executive's salary that a company could deduct to $400,000 -- the amount earned by the president. 
 At the same time, Congressional Democrats said they were prepared to drop one of their most contentious demands: new authority for bankruptcy judges to modify the terms of first mortgages. That provision was heavily opposed by Senate Republicans.
 In addition, Democrats also are leaning toward authorizing the entire $700 billion that Mr. Paulson is seeking but disbursing a smaller amount, perhaps only $150 billion, to start the program, with future funds dependent on how well it is working.
 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the lead negotiator for Congressional Democrats, said they also planned to insert a tax break to aid community banks that have suffered steep losses on preferred stock that they own in the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 That change is in addition to others that already have been accepted by Mr. Paulson that would create an independent oversight board and require the government to do more to prevent foreclosures.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GEORGE BUSH (PHOTOGRAPH BY APTN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
JOHN MCCAIN (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BARACK OBAMA (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, center, and Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, at Wednesday's meeting of the House Financial Services committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); HISTORY (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



787 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Gamble on Gambling? Or Stay Safe in Cash?

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
WMS Industries Inc. is one of the largest slot machine makers in America. This week, the students in Prof. Richard M. Levich's ''Managing Investment Funds'' course at New York University's Stern School of Business were mulling over whether WMS was itself worth gambling on.
 ''If they can sustain success in the international markets, then they may be worth a bet,'' said Manuel Navas, who is 27 and previously worked at MetLife and Wachovia, noting the strength of WMS in Hong Kong, Macao and Argentina. ''If not, then the U.S. slowdown could really hurt them.''
 Professor Levich, deputy chairman of the department of finance, said that gambling tends to be a countercyclical industry, often booming when the economy is bad. That prompted another student to question the morality of investing in a company that profits from people betting when they can least afford to. 
 ''It's a gambling company,'' Mr. Navas said bluntly. ''That's what they do.''
 The debate was not just academic. Professor Levich's students, divided into groups, are charged with investing nearly $2 million of N.Y.U.'s $2.2 billion endowment over the course of the semester, injecting real-world experience -- and consequences -- into the classroom. With crisis gripping Wall Street, one of the groups -- which looks to invest in small companies -- is keeping most of its $500,000 in what is essentially a savings account -- not the expected course for usually risk-taking business-school students, but indicative of the turbulent times.
 ''If you feel you have to be in cash, then be in cash,'' Professor Levich advised when student after student expressed concerns.
 As American financial markets undergo a wholesale restructuring this month, many business-school students here and in other top Master of Business Administration programs across the country have been left to wonder if the jobs -- at investment bank and hedge funds -- that they were aiming for will be there at graduation.
 The students went from Mr. Levich's hands-on practicum to ''International Macroeconomic Policy: Theory and Evidence From Recent Financial Crisis'' with Prof. Nouriel Roubini, who warned on Monday afternoon, ''Wall Street as we have known it for 100 years is not going to exist.'' 
 Nicknamed ''Dr. Doomsday,'' Professor Roubini has long warned of the danger facing the financial markets. Now he looks prescient, and his classroom was packed beyond capacity as he sought both to explain the events of the past week and to give students guidance on what might happen next.
 ''Things are moving so fast it is quite amazing,'' he said. ''What we are observing right now is the demise of the shadow banking system.''
 As he defines it, the shadow banking system consists of many of the institutions that had inspired the students to seek M.B.A. degrees rather than, say, law degrees. He included not just the investment banks that all but disappeared from Wall Street in the stunningly short time span of a week, but also what he said are the next institutions to be radically altered by events: hedge funds and private equity funds.
 Heather Zakian, 30, a former advertising sales executive who is in her second year at Stern, said that she worked over the summer at Merrill Lynch, which offered her a job upon graduation -- and which was sold to Bank of America this month. 
 ''They sent us an e-mail last week, saying everything would be fine,'' Ms. Zakian said after class, although her tone was anything but confident. 
 As Mr. Roubini spoke, invoking the word ''mess'' more than a dozen times to describe the markets, Ms. Zakian listened raptly.
 ''I just came from a lecture where we were told that in maybe five or eight years there would be a return of investment banks,'' Ms. Zakian said hopefully. ''What do you think?'' 
 Mr. Roubini said that there would probably be boutique investment banks but nothing so big that it could cause a systemic problem if it failed. In other words, the days of the big investment banks like Merrill Lynch were done.
 The conversation turned to the federal government's proposed $700 billion bailout plan, which Professor Roubini called ''not just a bazooka but a nuclear weapon to deal with this crisis.''
 ''Where is the money going to come from?'' asked a student, Michelle Yan Leung.
 ''Which country are you from?'' Mr. Roubini said.
 ''China,'' she replied.
 ''O.K., it is going to come from China,'' he said.
 Nervous chuckles from the class. 
 Mr. Roubini, his reputation for doom notwithstanding, laid out a set of circumstances in which, if all the right actions were taken and had the desired effect, the housing and financial markets could begin to recover in a year or 18 months.
 That was little comfort to students who will be graduating in eight months.
 ''My best guess is there will be fewer jobs, that don't pay as well,'' Ms. Zakian said.
 But Mr. Navas was more optimistic.
 He worked for a hedge fund over the summer -- he declined to say which one -- and, despite Mr. Roubini's warnings, he said he thought it would be fine.
 ''I got into this because I think financial markets are exciting,'' he said, though he acknowledged that dreadful headlines about Wall Street in the newspaper each morning were ''a little nerve-racking.'' ''I am just trying to understand everything that is happening,'' he added.
 Uncertainty, Professor Levich said, is definitely coloring the conversation of students. He added that in 33 years of teaching at the business school, he had never seen a moment quite like this.
 ''The questions students ask have changed,'' he said.
 A year ago, Mr. Levich said, students were focused on where they could find the most lucrative jobs. ''They will now ask if the institutions they were planning to work for will even exist,'' he said.
 The new caution can be seen in the students' management of what N.Y.U. calls the growth fund.
 The debate in class on Monday ended with a discussion about whether the students should keep the bulk of their money liquid or start investing it.
 In order to succeed in the class, students in Mr. Navas's group are expected to outperform the Russell 2000 index, which tracks the stock performance of thousands of small companies. 
 Since the N.Y.U. fund was established in 1999, students have consistently beaten the indexes they are competing against, and made a profit. Last year, for the first time, the fund lost money, about 1 percent; but the indexes lost more.
 Some students argued on Monday that the moment presented an opportunity to seize on undervalued stocks.
 They also noted that if the government indeed pumped $700 billion into the system, the market could spike -- so perhaps the best bet was buying a fund that mirrors the index. 
 But they ended class on Monday agreeing to stay in cash for the moment, drawing up proposals for next week's meeting. Even Mr. Navas, the WMS advocate who said he loves the excitement and risk of the stock market, was backing off.
 ''I don't want to be in there right now,'' he said. ''I want to stay in cash.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prof. Nouriel Roubini, at left, known as ''Dr. Doomsday,'' with students at New York University's business school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES MFG (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GAMING (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%)

COMPANY: WMS INDUSTRIES INC (95%)

TICKER: WMS (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713290 OTHER GAMBLING INDUSTRIES (95%); NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC7993 COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES (95%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (95%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



788 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Mood: The Bulls and the Bears

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''White House Pushes Plan'' (front page, Sept. 24):
 The White House has an economic bailout plan. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, have instructions to settle the plan quickly. Yes, there are risks, but no time for negotiations. 
 Congress should stand firm for a clear definition of the objective of the bailout: who shares the risks and, should there be any, the profits? Once Congress knows the objective, then it should act efficiently and overtime. 
 Congress should never again send the nation on a mission without a measurable and sustainable objective, whether the threat is a mushroom cloud or a meltdown. Olivier de Messieres
 Boyds, Md., Sept. 24, 2008
 The writer worked with the World Bank Group, Operations.
 To the Editor: 
 Warren E. Buffett's investment of $5 billion in Goldman Sachs (front page, Sept. 24) is shrewd. As Mr. Buffett again demonstrates (and as much of the investment community, in its current moment of panic, has forgotten), you invest ultimately in people and business cultures, not in business models. The people who make up Goldman Sachs will figure out a way to be successful. 
 When we look back on Mr. Buffett's investment in Goldman in a few years, we will see yet again that sticking to your investment discipline is the secret to success. Thomas L. Fraser
 New York, Sept. 24, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Talks on Bailout Plan Advance, Despite Anger and Skeptics in Congress'' (front page, Sept. 23):
 Not only is Congress angry, we the people are angry. The problem we have is trust. We do not trust the current administration. 
 We must wait until the next administration, only four months from now, to resolve this issue. Either of the two candidates will be more trusted, and the economy will wait. Bob Steen
 Pittsboro, N.C., Sept. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Why do all the proposed solutions to the credit crunch involve injecting cash into the Wall Street end of the economy? Surely we can make time (before borrowing $700 billion) to consider potential solutions that inject cash into the Main Street end of the economy.
 A program to ease the credit crunch by providing financial assistance and counseling to people with unmanageable debt could be as or more effective than handing over reams of cash to Wall Street. Richard L. Eichholz
 Chicago, Sept. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I find it ironic that the Treasury Department can propose a three-page, $700 billion bailout of our entire economy, yet my mortgage application contained at least 15 pages of financial, employment and personal information. 
 Is it too much for the American taxpayer to ask for a few more details in a $700 billion rescue plan than I provided to obtain my home mortgage? 
 And Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, are asking for a Congressional vote in less than one week. It took me six weeks to get my home mortgage approved. 
 Frank Justin
 Providence, R.I., Sept. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree that Congress should not rush into approving a $700 billion bailout of the financial system (''An Inadequate Case for the Bailout,'' editorial, Sept. 24), but rather needs ''to examine alternatives.''
 I also agree that Congress should work on a solution ''with appropriate speed.'' To that end, Congress should cancel its planned adjournment at the end of this week and stay in session until its work on this crisis is completed. Members can thereby demonstrate by their actions (rather than their rhetoric) why they should be re-elected. 
 David McCarthy
 Wynnewood, Pa., Sept. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Second Opinion?'' (column, Sept. 23):
 I agree with Bob Herbert that everyone should sit back and take a second look at the bailout structure being proposed. 
 It seems to me that the approach is all backward: the plan of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is meant to stem the cascading defaults in derivatives and similar securities whose complexity no one fully understands and whose total dollar amount is still a mystery. 
 But if everything is somehow tied one way or the other to the original subprime loans, whose amounts and terms can be ascertained, then why does not the government simply guarantee those loans so there will be no defaults to set off the myriad triggers of the financial doomsday machine Wall Street created? 
 Granted, it would be bailing out a bunch of poor people who should have known better, but at the same time it will be bailing out a bunch of rich bankers who probably did know better, so no one can claim unfairness. And, in the end, people get to keep their homes, living the American dream while also reducing the foreclosure sales that are causing declines in real estate values for all homeowners.
 Moreover, the stock markets will then stabilize, preserving trillions of dollars in wealth accumulation. So the taxpayers foot the bill, but they also benefit. 
 James O. Chamberlain
 Forest Hills, Queens, Sept. 23, 2008
 The writer is a partner of M & A International (Brussels), which advises companies and private equity firms on acquisitions in Europe.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In Bailout Furor, Wall St. Pay Becomes Target for Congress'' (front page, Sept. 24):
 I must say that I was initially happy to hear what I thought was a silver lining in this economic crisis: curbing Wall Street executives' ridiculous, exorbitant pay checks.
 As someone who is dedicating my life to the nonprofit field, I am constantly appalled to hear of the multimillion-dollar bonuses these execs receive around Christmastime. I am lucky to receive a coffee mug as a gift (which I appreciate greatly).
 To read that Wall Street lobbyists are scared that pay restrictions ''would sap incentives to hard work and innovation, and hurt the financial sector and the American economy,'' is almost comical. I have a hard time feeling sympathy for someone who might have to sell one of five luxury homes. 
 And call me crazy, but I work hard and try to be innovative (with limited resources), even though I don't have a tremendous financial incentive. Maybe it's time for Wall Street to learn what a healthy work ethic is. Emily Loubaton
 New York, Sept. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILLIP FIVEL NESSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD BANK GROUP (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (72%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



789 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Absence of Leadership

 BODY:
It took President Bush until Wednesday night to address the American people about the nation's financial crisis, and pretty much all he had to offer was fear itself.
 There was no acknowledgement of the shocking failure of government regulation, or that the country cannot afford more tax cuts for the very wealthy and budget-busting wars, or that spending at least $700 billion of taxpayers' money to bail out Wall Street and the banks should be done carefully, transparently and with oversight by Congress and the courts.
 We understand why he may have been reluctant to address the nation, since his contempt for regulation is a significant cause of the current mess. But he could have offered a great deal more than an eerily dispassionate primer on the credit markets in which he took no responsibility at all for the financial debacle. 
 He promised to protect taxpayers with his proposed bailout, but he did not explain how he would do that other than a superficial assurance that in sweeping up troubled assets, government would buy low and sell high. And he warned that ''our entire economy is in danger'' unless Congress passes his bailout plan immediately.
 In the end, Mr. Bush's appearance was just another reminder of something that has been worrying us throughout this crisis: the absence of any real national leadership, including on the campaign trail.
 Given Mr. Bush's shockingly weak performance, the only ones who could provide that are the two men battling to succeed him. So far, neither John McCain nor Barack Obama is offering that leadership.
 What makes it especially frustrating is that this crisis should provide each man a chance to explain his economic policies and offer a concrete solution to the current crisis. 
 Mr. McCain is doing distinctly worse than Mr. Obama. First, he claimed that the economy was strong, ignoring the deep distress of the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have already lost their homes. Then he called for a 9/11-style commission to study the causes of the crisis, as if there were a mystery to be solved. Over the last few days he has become a born-again populist, a stance entirely at odds with the career, as he often says, started as ''a foot soldier in the Reagan revolution.'' 
 After daily pivoting, Mr. McCain now says that the bailout being debated in Congress has to protect taxpayers, that all the money has to be spent in public and that a bipartisan board should ''provide oversight.'' But he offered not the slightest clue about how he would ensure that taxpayers would ever ''recover'' the bailout money. 
 Mr. McCain proposed capping executives' pay at firms that get bailout money, a nicely punitive idea but one that does nothing to mitigate the crisis. And that is about as far as his new populism went.
 What is most important is that Mr. McCain hasn't said a word about strengthening regulation or budged one inch from his insistence on maintaining Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy. That trickle-down notion has done nothing to improve the lives of most Americans and, even without a $700 billion bailout, saddled generations to come with crippling deficits. 
 Mr. Obama has been clearer on the magnitude and causes of the financial crisis. He has long called for robust regulation of the financial industry, and he said early on that a bailout must protect taxpayers. Mr. Obama also recognizes that the wealthy must pay more taxes or this country will never dig out of its deep financial hole. But as he does too often, Mr. Obama walked up to the edge of offering full prescriptions and stopped there. 
 We don't know if Mr. McCain or Mr. Obama will do any good back in Washington. But Mr. McCain's idea of postponing the Friday night debate was another wild gesture from a candidate entirely too prone to them. The nation needs to hear Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain debate this crisis and demonstrate who is ready to lead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



790 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Bring on the Rubber Chicken

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
How do you think the besieged financial community felt when the White House announced that George W. Bush was going to address the nation on television Wednesday night?
Hopeful? Terrified?
''We are in the midst of a serious financial crisis,'' the president said, reading his lines flatly and stolidly, like an announcer delivering a long public-service message about new parking regulations for the holiday season. The whole event had a kind of unreality to it, since Bush has arrived at that unhappy point in American public life when a famous person begins to look like a celebrity impersonator.
There is, in a way, a kind of talent required to tell the nation that it's teetering on the brink of disaster in a way that makes the viewers' attention wander. Bush's explanation about how the rescue bill would unclog the lines of credit made the whole thing sound less important than a Liquid-Plumr commercial. 
But help is on the way! John McCain and Barack Obama are going to join Bush at the White House to work over the details of a rescue bill with Congressional leaders. As Obama put it: ''The risk of doing nothing is economic catastrophe.''
Or, as Sarah Palin told Katie Couric on CBS News last night: ''Not necessarily this, as it's been proposed, has to pass or we're gonna find ourselves in another Great Depression. But there has to be action taken, bipartisan effort -- Congress not pointing fingers at this point at ... one another, but finding the solution to this, taking action and being serious about the reforms on Wall Street that are needed.''
So say we all.
(Palin was unable to answer questions about McCain's record and relief for homeowners with troubled mortgages. But she did reveal forthrightly that she considers her running mate a ''maverick.'')
About that rescue bill. Passing it is going to be a test of true bipartisanship, which involves both sides deciding that they will share the blame for doing something messy and unpleasant. But first, Congress has to hold hearings until every single member of the House and Senate has had a chance to yell at Henry Paulson. This can be a surprisingly useful exercise. It is much easier to work up sympathy for the rescue plan once you've heard Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky call it ''un-American.''
Meanwhile, McCain announced that he was suspending his campaign, taking his ads off the air and going back to Washington to do something leaderlike and bipartisan. This was yet another new McCain, very different from last week's versions, that blamed Obama for the financial meltdown while tossing out rescue plans like a desperate dart player 10 minutes before the bar closes.
''Following Sept. 11, our national leaders came together at a time of crisis. We must show that kind of patriotism now,'' he said.
In deference to the current emergency, we will refrain from pointing out that when our national leaders came together following Sept. 11, the results were, all and all, worse than if they had stayed home.
Last week, while McCain was desperately reinventing his position every day, Obama was withholding, declining to take a position until the administration plan had jelled. But in the end, it turned out that their ideas were both vaguely similar and similarly vague. On Wednesday, Obama called McCain to propose issuing a joint statement. Then McCain one-upped him by announcing that he wanted to postpone Friday's debate until the economy was rescued. His minions raced off to the news shows to say that the American people were ''tired of debates and talking.''
Since Obama, the Commission on Presidential Debates and the University of Mississippi, which is hosting the debate, all say it will go on, it isn't clear what will happen if McCain fails to show up. An empty chair? A last-minute invitation to Ralph Nader and Bob Barr to drop on by? Once in New York, when Rudy Giuliani boycotted a mayoral debate, one of his opponents spent the night twirling around a rubber chicken and the citizenry enjoyed it quite a lot. This isn't the kind of thing you could imagine Obama doing, but I'd keep my eye on Barr.
Obama, meanwhile, had not even promised to show up for the rescue bill vote until McCain made his grand gesture. When reporters asked him on Tuesday whether he was planning to go to Washington, he was noncommittal: ''If we get consensus and everybody is popping Champagne, then I'll probably go back to campaign with folks who are having a tough time in Ohio and Michigan.''
This seemed like an overly casual way to avert economic catastrophe. Since the people of Ohio and Michigan have been visited by a presidential candidate virtually every hour for the last six months, it would seem that they could get by on their own for a day or two.
This election is turning into a Goldilocks story. One candidate's too hot, and one's too cool.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JIM BUNNING (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); KATIE COURIC (57%); SARAH PALIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



791 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Palin's American Exception

BYLINE: By Roger Cohen

 BODY:
Sarah Palin loves the world ''exceptional.'' At a rally in Nevada the other day, the Republican vice-presidential candidate said: ''We are an exceptional nation.'' Then she declared: ''America is an exceptional country.'' In case anyone missed that, she added: ''You are all exceptional Americans.''
 I have to hand it to Palin, she may be onto something in her batty way: the election is very much about American exceptionalism. 
 This is the idea, around since the founding fathers, and elaborated on by Alexis de Toqueville, that the United States is a nation unlike any other with a special mission to build the ''city upon a hill'' that will serve as liberty's beacon for mankind.
 But exceptionalism has taken an ugly twist of late. It's become the angry refuge of the America that wants to deny the real state of the world.
 From an inspirational notion, however flawed in execution, that has buttressed the global spread of liberty, American exceptionalism has morphed into the fortress of those who see themselves threatened by ''one-worlders'' (read Barack Obama) and who believe it's more important to know how to dress moose than find Mumbai.
 That's Palinism, a philosophy delivered without a passport and with a view (on a clear day) of Russia.
 Behind Palinism lies anger. It's been growing as America's relative decline has become more manifest in falling incomes, imploding markets, massive debt and rising new centers of wealth and power from Shanghai to Dubai.
 The damn-the-world, God-chose-us rage of that America has sharpened as U.S. exceptionalism has become harder to square with the 21st-century world's interconnectedness. How exceptional can you be when every major problem you face, from terrorism to nuclear proliferation to gas prices, requires joint action?
 Very exceptional, insists Palin, and so does John McCain by choosing her. (He has said: ''I do believe in American exceptionalism. We are the only nation I know that really is deeply concerned about adhering to the principle that all of us are created equal.'')
 America is distinct. Its habits and attitudes with respect to religion, patriotism, voting and the death penalty, for example, differ from much of the rest of the developed world. It is more ideological than other countries, believing still in its manifest destiny. At its noblest, it inspires still.
 But, let's face it, from Baghdad to Bear Stearns the last eight years have been a lesson in the price of exceptionalism run amok.
 To persist with a philosophy grounded in America's separateness, rather than its connectedness, would be devastating at a time when the country faces two wars, a financial collapse unseen since 1929, commodity inflation, a huge transfer of resources to the Middle East, and the imperative to develop new sources of energy.
 Enough is enough.
 The basic shift from the cold war to the new world is from MAD (mutual assured destruction) to MAC (mutual assured connectedness). Technology trumps politics. Still, Bush and Cheney have demonstrated that politics still matter.
 Which brings us to the first debate -- still scheduled for Friday -- between Obama and McCain on foreign policy. It will pit the former's universalism against the latter's exceptionalism.
 I'm going to try to make this simple. On the Democratic side you have a guy whose campaign has been based on the Internet, who believes America may have something to learn from other countries (like universal health care) and who's unafraid in 2008 to say he's a ''proud citizen of the United States and a fellow citizen of the world.''
 On the Republican side, you have a guy who, in 2008, is just discovering the Net and Google and whose No. 2 is a woman who got a passport last year and believes she understands Russia because Alaska is closer to Siberia than Alabama.
 If I were Obama, I'd put it this way: ''Senator McCain, the world you claim to understand is the world of yesterday. A new century demands new thinking. Our country cannot be made fundamentally secure by a man who thought our economy was fundamentally sound.''
 American exceptionalism, taken to extremes, leaves you without the allies you need (Iraq), without the influence you want (Iran) and without any notion of risk (Wall Street). The only exceptionalism that resonates, as Obama put it to me last year, is one ''based on our Constitution, our principles, our values and our ideals.'' 
 In a superb recent piece on the declining global influence of the Supreme Court, my colleague Adam Liptak quoted an article by Steven Calabresi, a law professor at Northwestern: ''Like it or not, Americans really are a special people with a special ideology that sets us apart from all other peoples.''
 Palinism has its intellectual roots. But it's dangerous for a country in need of realism not rage. I'm sure Henry Kissinger tried to instill Realpolitik in the governor of Alaska this week, but the angry exceptionalism that is Palinism is not in the reason game. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (67%); RELIGION (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (53%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



792 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Cerberus in Talks to Buy Remainder of Chrysler

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Cerberus Capital Management said Wednesday that it was negotiating to buy Daimler AG's 19.9-percent stake in Chrysler, a move that could pave the way for further changes at the American automaker. 
 Cerberus bought 80.1 percent of Chrysler a year ago for $7.4 billion, ending the troubled nine-year marriage between Daimler and Chrysler.
 Since then, Chrysler's automotive operations have struggled amid speculation that Cerberus might be looking to sell the business or align Chrysler with a foreign automaker.
 Cerberus has repeatedly said that it has a long-term investment plan for Chrysler. But industry analysts viewed the buyout of Daimler's stake as a necessary step toward a larger deal.
 ''It looks like they are cleaning Chrysler up for a deal with somebody else,'' said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 Cerberus said in a statement that it approached Daimler about acquiring its stake and the discussions were continuing.
 A Cerberus spokesman, Peter Duda, declined to elaborate on the talks. A Daimler spokesman, Han Tjan, confirmed that negotiations were continuing, but did not provide further details.
 The acquisition of Chrysler last year was considered a bold but risky move for Cerberus, a leading private-equity firm with growing interests in the automotive sector.
 But high gas prices and a soft economy have been tough on Chrysler, the smallest of Detroit's Big Three automakers.
 Chrysler's United States sales have fallen 24 percent this year, as consumers have fled from its core truck products into smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Because it is privately owned, Chrysler is not required to release its financial results. The company has said it lost $400 million in the first quarter, but has not provided any updates since.
 Under Cerberus's ownership, Chrysler has been cutting jobs and vehicle production to match its shrinking market share. Robert L. Nardelli, Chrysler's chairman, and his executive team have also been aggressively pursuing alliances and joint ventures with other automakers.
 A buyout of Daimler's stake could make it easier for Cerberus either to sell Chrysler or enter an alliance involving an equity exchange with another automaker.
 ''It gives Cerberus more exit options,'' said John Casesa, a principal in the consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group. ''It clearly would make it easier to sell the business.''
 The spokesmen for Daimler and Chrysler gave no timetable for the talks regarding Daimler's remaining stake.
 In its statement, Cerberus said ''existing industrial relationships'' between the two automakers would continue even if the transaction is completed.
 Chrysler, for example, is expected to use components developed by the Mercedes-Benz unit of Daimler for the next generation of its Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle. 
 Like its American rivals General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, Chrysler is hoping for a cash infusion from a proposed $25 billion federal loan program to help meet tougher fuel-economy standards. 
 From a business standpoint, Chrysler is banking heavily on the introduction of its new Dodge Ram pickup this fall to improve its sagging sales.
 The company also surprised analysts and competitors this week by introducing three potential electric vehicles, one of which Chrysler said will go on sale by 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chrysler's reliance on large vehicles, like the 2009 Dodge Ram pickup truck being assembled above, has proved costly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (92%); DAIMLER AG (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (91%); DAI (BIT) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008



793 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Quasi-Reality Bites Back

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
When a movie's engagement with reality is at once impossible to miss and difficult to define, we frequently say it's like a documentary. The comparison, however, is anything but straightforward, since there are so many different ways a film can document (or distort) the literal truth. The 46th New York Film Festival includes a striking number of features -- among them some of the strongest and freshest films likely to be shown on Manhattan screens this year -- that might be called semi- or quasi- or crypto-documentaries. 
 In some of these, ordinary people play versions of themselves. In others, historical events are reconstructed with uncanny immediacy and fidelity. And there are still others that use highly refined tricks and techniques to strip away the veneer of artifice and immerse the viewer in the syncopated rhythms and rough textures of daily life. One festival selection that is indisputably and self-avowedly a documentary, Ari Folman's ''Waltz With Bashir,'' is also a cartoon, using animation to reconstruct nightmarish scenes of actual war as well as the dreams of some of the men who fought it. 
 The blurring of boundaries between performance and captured fact, or between fiction and whatever its opposite might be, characterizes this festival (which opens on Friday and concludes on Oct. 12) from start to finish. The opening slot, frequently reserved for a picture expected to infuse the high seriousness of the event with a touch of patron-pleasing, show business glamour, belongs to ''The Class,'' Laurent Cantet's warm and gritty chronicle of a year in the life of a high school in a tough Paris neighborhood. The film arrives in New York with Cannes's top prize, the Palme d'Or, as part of its pedigree. (Of the 28 entries in the New York festival, 18 were previously screened last May in Cannes.) It is at once the most formally daring and the most populist opening-night selection in many years. 
 The main character, a teacher named Francois, is played by Francois Begaudeau, an actual teacher and the author of ''Entre les Murs'' (''Between the Walls''), the autobiographical novel on which Mr. Cantet based this movie. Francois's pupils -- young faces of the melting pot that France has, with some reluctance and anxiety, become -- are played by nonprofessionals, which is to say by young people pretending to be some version of themselves. 
 So if ''The Class'' is not a documentary, it nonetheless documents a powerful tendency in contemporary cinema, one that is implicitly ranged against the lavish forays into fantasy, allegory and historical mummery that dominate commercial movie-making around the world (especially in Hollywood). The sturdy old term ''realism,'' even with a prefix like neo- or hyper- attached to it, seems inadequate to capture this movement, which at its best combines a high degree of artistic sophistication with a bracing commitment to the literal.
 In many cases this is an ethical commitment, a politically inflected impulse to show the world as it is. But the world as it is does not always make itself available to the camera, and so the inquiry must be conducted by means of artifice. Steve McQueen's ''Hunger,'' about the protests of members of the Irish Republican Army imprisoned by the British in the early 1980s, is unsparing in its depiction of raw, physical experience.
 At the beginning of the film the prisoners are on a hygiene strike, refusing to shave or bathe and smearing the walls of their cells with their own feces. Later this tactic gives way to self-starvation, and in both cases Mr. McQueen, a well-known English artist making his debut as a feature-film director, seems intent on pushing the visual medium of cinema toward the capture of sensory, corporeal experience. 
 Is Jia Zhangke's ''24 City,'' with its talking-head interviews and real-time images of work in a Chinese factory, a work of realism? A documentary? Obviously it's both, to some degree, but it also seems like a dispatch from a postindustrial, science-fiction future. Its subject is the dizzying changes in the social and economic landscape of China, changes that seem to outpace the ability of Mr. Jia's digital camera to record them.
 Films like ''Hunger''; ''Waltz With Bashir'' (about former Israeli soldiers coming to terms with their war experiences in Lebanon in the early 1980s); ''Tony Manero'' (a Chilean film set in the early years of the Pinochet dictatorship); and, for that matter, Steven Soderbergh's ''Che'' bring a sense of urgency and immediacy to political events of the past. Other films, meanwhile, like ''24 City,'' try to make sense of the present, to locate in the fine grain of individual lives some clue to the larger shape of things.
 The French director Olivier Assayas's ''Summer Hours,'' for example, is at first glance an intimate study of family life in which three siblings try to figure out what to do with the country house and the art collection their mother has left them. But without ever mentioning the word, the film is also about globalization, about how the transnational mobility of people, property and money erodes traditional bonds of family, nation and place. 
 Mr. Assayas, who has explored the theme of globalization in a very different register in films like ''Irma Vep,'' ''Demonlover'' and ''Boarding Gate,'' is not a polemicist. Though ''Summer Hours'' is colored by a sense of loss and melancholy, it is also too rigorous and too generous to succumb to sentimentality or nostalgia. The film's ideas dwell within its characters, something that is also true of Kelly Reichardt's splendid ''Wendy and Lucy,'' the story of a young woman and her dog that is also about money, individualism and solidarity in contemporary America. 
 At first glance Mike Leigh's ''Happy-Go-Lucky'' is about nothing more than its main character, a relentlessly cheerful London schoolteacher named Poppy who is either the most endearing or the most irritating character in recent cinema. Or maybe both. As played by Sally Hawkins, Poppy is a whirlwind of good cheer, but she also presents a case study in both the limits and the necessity of niceness as an ethical principle. She is, above all, as abrasively and stubbornly real as anyone you are likely to meet this year, on screen or off.
 All of which is not to say that realism is the only game in town. Festivalgoers in search of stylish, youthful genre attitude can sample ''I'm Gonna Explode,'' Gerardo Naranjo's tale of two teenagers playing Bonnie and Clyde. Connoisseurs of costume drama may be intrigued by ''The Northern Land,'' Joao Botelho's elusive and stylized literary adaptation from Portugal, which is notable for its mannered performances and its eye-popping vistas of the green, rocky island of Madeira. 
 The landscape of the festival itself has changed this year as a result of continuing construction at its Lincoln Center home. A majority of the screenings will be held in the vast and velvety Ziegfeld Theater on West 54th Street. That plush, old-fashioned movie palace may seem like an incongruous setting for rough and raw encounters with reality, but the grandeur is also an appropriate reminder that even small movies deserve a big screen and a big audience. 
 Whether these movies will find either after the festival is uncertain. It is increasingly likely, given the fragile state of distribution for ambitious, challenging films, that you will next encounter these films not in a theater near you but in your living room or on your laptop. Whether or not you can make it to the Ziegfeld, the New York Film Festival offers a welcome and urgent reminder: Keep your eyes open.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the New York Film Festival: Clockwise from top left, a scene in Al Forman's ''Waltz With Bashir''
Michael Fassbender in ''Hunger''
Sally Hawkins in ''Happy-Go-Lucky''
and Juan Pablo de Santiago and Maria Deschamps in ''I'm Gonna Explode.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE, BY ARI FOLMAN AND DAVID POLONSKY/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS, BLAST! FILMS/IFC FILMS
CANANA/FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER
 SIMON MEIN/MIRAMAX FILMS (E10)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); ANIMATION (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); WRITERS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



794 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: China's Tainted-Milk Crisis Now Seen as Risk in Europe

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
European Union regulators on Thursday ordered rigorous testing of imports containing at least 15 percent milk powder after concluding that food containing tainted milk powder from China may well be circulating in Europe and putting children at risk.
 The action, announced by the European Food Safety Authority and the European Commission, significantly expands the potential geographic reach of a milk adulteration scandal in China to now include a range of foods sold around the world. The Europeans said cookies, toffees and chocolates were the major concerns.
 The World Health Organization and the Unicef also expressed concern on Thursday about the Chinese milk contamination and the implications for other foods. In the United States, some consumer groups called on the Food and Drug Administration to restrict imports of foods that may contain suspected dairy ingredients from China. 
 In China, milk products contaminated with the industrial chemical melamine have sickened more than 50,000 young children in recent weeks and created a spiraling government scandal. 
 While it is illegal to import dairy products and baby formula from China into the European Union, European nations can and do import many processed foods containing milk powder as an ingredient that are manufactured outside of Europe. Such products could contain milk powder from China.
 In 2007, the European Union imported from China about 19,500 tons of confectionary products, including pastries, cake and cookies, and about 1,250 tons of chocolate and other prepared foods containing cocoa.
 ''Children who consume both biscuits and chocolate could potentially exceed the T.D.I. by up to more than three times,'' the European Food Safety Authority said Thursday, referring to the tolerable daily intake of melamine that the agency regards as safe. Levels above that could result in kidney stones, Ian Palombi, a spokesman for the agency, said in a telephone interview. 
 In Brussels, the European Commission was trying to assess the extent of the risk. ''The problem is with the composite food products, which can be imported, even if they contain milk powder from China,'' said Nina Papadoulaki, a spokeswoman for the commission. She said the Commission did not know how many companies sell snacks in Europe that were manufactured in China or included ingredients from China. 
 She said that member states and food companies in the European Union had been asked to test products for melamine in the past 10 days and so far had not detected a problem, although the testing was continuing.
 In the United States, some consumer groups called for stricter regulation as well. 
 ''It is now clear that China has exported dairy products like powdered milk and milk protein products around the globe and we know that some of them came to the United States,'' said Wenonah Hauter, executive director of Food and Water Watch. ''It is time for the F.D.A. to take this issue seriously and stop the import of dairy products from China until this situation is under control.''
 The United States has imported two million pounds of a milk protein called casein this year, along with other powdered milk proteins that are used as ingredients in many processed foods, according to figures from the United States Department of Agriculture. This includes 293,000 pounds that were imported in July. The Food and Drug Administration did not immediately return calls for comment on Thursday. 
 Melamine is a chemical used in plastic manufacturing that can be added to foods to artificially increase their protein content in testing. Its presence was detected in pet foods originating from China last year.
 Even if present in foods in Europe, milk powder contaminated with melamine is not likely to cause the kind of public health disaster that is occurring among Chinese infants. In China, babies drank contaminated milk powder as their sole source of nutrition for weeks if not months, and a handful have died. 
 Because the harm caused by melamine is related to someone's weight, it is far less harmful to older children and not likely to be dangerous for adults. Also, for children and adults in Europe, melamine-contaminated milk powder is one small component of a broader diet. The toxic effects of melamine are cumulative, creating kidney stones that can in severe cases lead to kidney failure. Still, children who eat very large quantities of sweets could be at risk. 
 This week, a number of countries and companies that had previously removed Chinese dairy products from supermarket shelves have started removing snack foods containing milk powder as well. On Thursday, members of the Philippine Association of Supermarkets removed Chinese food products with milk ingredients.
 In an increasingly globalized food economy, manufacturers use raw ingredients from all over the world, often making it difficult to track the origins. 
 For example, Kraft Foods, the maker of Oreo cookies, recently moved one of its large cookie factories from Australia to China. But Claire Regan, a spokeswoman for the company, said that most of the products Kraft made in China were distributed within China, although a limited number were exported. Most do not contain milk products from China, she said, and, when they do, the levels of such ingredients are very low. The Oreo product line does not contain milk ingredients from China, Ms. Regan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Countries around the world have reacted to the tainted-milk crisis. In Jakarta, Indonesia, a health official enforced a requirement that Chinese imports be removed from supermarkets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ACHMAD IBRAHIM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (93%); CHILDREN (91%); MILK (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); INFANT FORMULA (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); BAKED GOODS (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PREPARED FOODS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (56%)

COMPANY: CHINA MILK PRODUCTS GROUP LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN FOOD SAFETY AUTHORITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: G86 (SGX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS112120 DAIRY CATTLE & MILK PRODUCTION (56%); SIC0241 DAIRY FARMS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (59%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (59%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



795 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Companies Under Pressure

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Almost 62 years ago to the day, Aubrey Pilgrim bought a two-bit feed and seed store in east Texas with the help of a $2,500 bank loan. 
 His tiny operation grew up to become the Pilgrim's Pride Corporation, the alpha-chicken of the poultry business, with 53,000 employees, customers like KFC and Taco Bell -- and a heavy load of debt. 
 On Wednesday, Pilgrim's Pride warned that it would break certain agreements with its lenders, underscoring the tightening bind that many companies, even those far from Wall Street, find themselves in as loans grow scarce and the economy struggles. 
 As a government bailout of the financial industry seemed elusive on Thursday, and the credit markets remained on edge, many analysts saw more pain ahead for debt-burdened companies, as well as their shareholders and employees. 
 Some of these companies, like Pilgrim's Pride, went into hock when times were good to make acquisitions and grow. Others were saddled with debts by financiers who bought them with borrowed money. And still others are simply struggling to pay the bills as the economy worsens. 
 Every company needs to borrow money to finance its operations, and the cost is rising for virtually all of them because of the unease in the credit markets. But the weakest, like Pilgrim's Pride, are being squeezed particularly hard. 
 On Thursday, yields on corporate junk bonds -- that is, those without investment grade credit ratings -- jumped to nearly 14.6 percent, the highest level since late 2002. Prices of risky corporate loans, which are traded like bonds on Wall Street, fell to record lows, fetching about 82 cents on the dollar on average, according to Standard & Poor's. Bonds and loans of blue-chip companies like General Electric weakened too.
 ''Have we seen anything like this?'' asked Kingman D. Penniman, the president of KDP Investment Advisors, a bond research firm. ''No. I don't think I've seen good credit go down so much so quickly.''
 The turmoil in the credit markets is taking its toll on a wide variety of companies. Hard Rock Park, a theme park in Myrtle Beach, S.C., filed for bankruptcy on Thursday, citing ''frozen credit markets.'' 
 Analysts worry that a host of other companies, ranging from mortgage lenders to restaurant chains, will come under mounting pressure, and that companies will start to default on their debts in growing numbers. 
 ''We're just in the beginning of the default cycle,'' Mr. Penniman said. ''Companies are violating their covenants. They need to come to the debt markets and can't get refinancing.'' 
 For Pilgrim's Pride, difficulty with debt is translating into big losses for shareholders. 
 The company's share price plummeted nearly 40 percent on Wednesday and that much again on Thursday, when the company said it expected to report a ''significant loss'' for its fourth quarter, in part because of the rising cost of feed and weaker demand for its chicken. Such a deficit would cause the breach of one specific covenant, or lending requirement, with its lenders as of the fiscal year ending on Saturday.
 But the company has reached an ''understanding'' with two groups of lenders, one led by CoBank and the other by the Bank of Montreal, over a waiver of that covenant, said Gary L. Rhodes, a company spokesman. Pilgrim's Pride is working to reach a formal 30-day waiver, which would buy it time to work out a ''longer-term fix.''
 As of Thursday, the company had $2.23 billion in debt, according to Bloomberg News, some of which it piled on when it bought Gold Kist for $1.1 billion in December 2006. That was the height of the credit boom, when debt flowed freely and terms were cheap, a trap that has since ensnared many companies.
 Since the onset of the credit squeeze last summer, analysts have fretted about the health of companies taken over by private equity firms, which often rely on high amounts of debt to finance their deals. But since then, many other companies have been hard pressed to repay their debt, challenged by slowing consumer spending and falling housing prices.
 Already, scores of restaurants and retailers have filed for bankruptcy protection. Some, like the retailers Linens 'n Things, Mervyns and Steve and Barry's, were backed by private equity firms. Others, like the Sharper Image and the Bennigan's restaurant chain, were crushed by debt they had incurred for other reasons, like expanding their businesses.
 ''For consumer-facing companies, you can already see the early stages of trouble,'' said Barry Ridings, a co-head of the restructuring advisory group at Lazard. He added that companies like restaurants are often ''the canaries in the coal mine'' that presage trouble across the economy.
 Dozens of other companies are being closely watched for signs of trouble, according to Mr. Penniman. Among those he cited whose debt showed distress were Sbarro, the Italian fast-food chain; Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, the rental-car company; and Sealy, the mattress maker whose predecessor helped lead to the fall of First Boston. 
 Analysts are also watching Claire's Stores, the costume jewelry purveyor, and Realogy, the parent company of the Century 21 and Coldwell Banker real estate brokerage firms. 
 Though the headlines have been dominated by the likes of financial firms like Lehman Brothers, the American International Group and Washington Mutual, the disarray of the credit markets and the wider economy have extended to every part of the nation.
 Hard Rock Park, which features attractions like Led Zeppelin: the Ride, cited a panoply of ailments in its bankruptcy filing. Among them is the collapsed housing market and the spike in energy and gas prices, which led to lower-than-expected ticket sales.
 But what drove Hard Rock Park to bankruptcy court was its inability to refinance a $15 million revolving line of credit, Steven Goodwin, the company's chief executive and chief financial officer, wrote in a court filing. 
 ''Due to the frozen credit markets,'' he wrote, the company ''was unable to increase the size of the revolving facility as planned.''
 Essentially, the park operator ran out of money. 
 Visitors to Hard Rock Park's Web site are greeted by a notice saying the park had closed for the rest of the season to restructure its finances. The company says it expects to reopen next spring.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at a Pilgrim's Pride plant in Arkansas learned this week that the company would break certain agreements with lenders, raising concern about its future.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LEMON/THE EL DORADO NEWS-TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POULTRY (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); THEME RESTAURANTS (65%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (64%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%)

COMPANY: PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (85%); TACO BELL CORP (57%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%)

TICKER: PPC (NASDAQ) (85%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (85%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (85%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (57%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



796 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Use of Taser Broke Rules, Police Suggest

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Andy Newman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The firing of a Taser stun gun that led an emotionally disturbed man to fall from a Brooklyn building ledge to his death on Wednesday appeared to have violated departmental guidelines, the police said on Thursday.
 The guidelines tell officers that when possible, the Taser, which fires barbs that deliver thousands of volts of electrical current, should not be used in situations when a person could fall from an elevated surface. 
 A law enforcement official identified the lieutenant who gave the order to use the Taser as Michael Pigott, a 21-year veteran of the force. He was placed on modified assignment without his gun and badge, and the officer who fired the weapon was put on administrative duty amid an investigation by the Police Department and the Brooklyn district attorney. The police declined to identify the officer. 
 Officers at the scene of the confrontation had called by radio for an inflatable bag as the events unfolded, but it had not yet arrived when the man, Iman Morales, 35, was struck with the device and fell, according to a statement by the department's chief spokesman, Paul J. Browne.
 ''None of the E.S.U. officers on the scene were positioned to break his fall, nor did they devise a plan in advance to do so,'' the statement said, referring to the elite police Emergency Service Unit. 
 The department's response to Mr. Morales's death took less than a day, in a quick attempt to address the elements of the case that have tested the department in the past: It has long wrestled with the best way to train officers who confront people with mental illness, and there has been continuing debate about the department's use of Tasers, which have a troubled history in New York and which the police have resisted using widely.
 A report by the RAND Corporation -- commissioned in January 2007 after the 2006 death of Sean Bell and released this June -- recommended that the New York New Yorkepartment experiment with using the Tasers more as an alternative to firearms. So far, the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, has not carried out a recommendation of the study that the availability of Tasers be expanded in two precincts as part of a pilot program. Currently, only sergeants and members of the Emergency Service Unit carry the weapons.
 The events in the current case began shortly before 2 p.m. on Wednesday, when Mr. Morales's mother asked someone to call 911 after her son did not answer the door of his apartment at 489 Tompkins Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, the police said. 
 A patrol officer arrived at the scene first, and a few minutes later, a unit of Emergency Service officers. When they arrived, the police said, Mr. Morales ran onto the fire escape outside his third-floor apartment. 
 Fleeing the officers up the fire escape, he tried to enter an apartment on the fourth floor by pushing in an air-conditioner, the police said. Unsuccessful, he then descended to the second-floor fire escape and from there jumped down to the security-gate housing for a ground-floor storefront, which was about 10 feet from the sidewalk.
 As an officer was securing himself on the second-floor fire escape, Mr. Morales jabbed at him with an eight-foot-long fluorescent light tube, the police said. 
 Under orders from a lieutenant, the officer on the sidewalk, who is 37 and has been in the department for 10 years, used the Taser on Mr. Morales, according to the police, and he fell to the sidewalk, hitting his head. That was at 2:27, the Police Department said, about 22 minutes after the Emergency Service officers arrived at the scene. The police said an officer at the scene had radioed for an inflatable bag, and it was not clear why the bag had not arrived when Mr. Morales fell, or why the officers had not waited for it before using the Taser on Mr. Morales.
 Mr. Morales was taken to Kings County Hospital Center with serious head trauma and was later pronounced dead. The cause of death has not yet been determined.
 The order not to use the Taser in such circumstances appears in a 10-page interim order issued by the Police Department in June. Mr. Browne said that the order was released before the distribution of new holsters for police sergeants, who were ordered to carry their Tasers with them, rather than keep them in their cars, as they had previously done. Emergency Service officers have been carrying them for 24 years.
 The order discusses types of people the Taser should not be used on, including children, the elderly and pregnant women, and instructs officers not to use them ''in situations where the subject may fall from an elevated surface.'' 
 Mr. Browne said that the Brooklyn district attorney's office had asked the department not to interview the two officers while the Police Department and the district attorney investigate the events of Wednesday afternoon. Such a request is routine, for legal reasons.
 A video taken by a witness and posted on the Web site of The New York Post on Wednesday shows Mr. Morales naked on the ledge, waving a long light tube. As he tumbles to the ground, onlookers can be heard screaming.
 Officers in the Emergency Service Unit receive intensive training for exactly the kind of crisis depicted on the video. Their training includes how to deal with emotionally disturbed people and the use of nonlethal restraints. They are taught how to use air bags and how to deal with would-be jumpers.
 The officers in the unit have carried Tasers since shortly after the 1984 death of Eleanor Bumpurs, a disturbed, obese woman who was shotgunned to death by an officer in her apartment after she escaped a restraint and brandished a knife.
 Last year, members of the unit helped respond to most of the 80,000 calls the Police Department received for reports of emotionally disturbed people, the police said. 
 According to the Civilian Complaint Review Board, there were 39 complaints about the Emergency Service Unit last year, the highest number since 2003, when there were 44 complaints. Only one of the claims last year was substantiated.
 One frequent critic of the Police Department, State Senator Eric L. Adams of Brooklyn, said that the death of Mr. Morales underscored its continued inability to deal with the mentally ill. Standing in front of Mr. Morales's building, Senator Adams said, ''You can give someone desk duty, you can suspend someone, you can fire someone, but these are Band-Aids.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iman Morales, who was atop a security gate, above, in Brooklyn, fell to his death after being hit by a Taser gun on Wednesday.
State Senator Eric L. Adams, left, and City Councilman Albert Vann spoke yesterday at the building where Mr. Morales lived.
 Iman Morales.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FIREARMS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



797 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Lenders to the Poor Adopt Guidelines

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
For months, the fellowship of institutions providing microfinancing has been angrily divided over the actions of one of its own.
 Compartamos, a fast-growing Mexican bank, went public in April 2007 and sold $468 million in shares on the Mexican stock market and gave the cash to its investors. Critics said the bank, based here, was putting profit ahead of clients, contrary to the altruistic ideals of microlending, which specializes in giving tiny loans to the poorest of the poor.
 In its defense, Compartamos said that the stock sale showed private investors that microfinance could be profitable and would attract more private capital to the industry. 
 Now, it seems, the two sides have reached a truce. This week, Compartamos joined a group of microfinancing organizations to announce a code of conduct to protect the microlenders' clients from being exploited. 
 Organizations signing the code say it is meant to reaffirm the principles of microlending and set microlenders, which showed the poor were good credit risks, apart from consumer lenders entering the market. 
 But the campaign was also prompted by the reaction against Compartamos, the microfinancing institution that began as a nonprofit and is now a fully fledged bank with one million clients. Critics say that interest rates charged by Compartamos are too high -- some as high as 100 percent -- even though the bank's costs have fallen. 
 ''There was a lot of concern, and there still is, that it's very difficult to differentiate finance from microfinance because, look, everyone is coming in,'' said Lynne Patterson, the founder of Pro-Mujer, a network of Latin American microlenders that signed the code. ''What people were able to agree on is that we want to protect the client.''
 Microfinancing, the practice of lending tiny sums of money to poor women to start their own businesses, has grown into a global industry since it began in the 1970s. Institutions involved now range from local nonprofit microlenders to commercial institutions that raise capital on financial markets and return profits for investors. 
 As microfinance has grown, the debate over how commercial it should be has gotten louder.
 It took a yearlong protest of the Compartamos initial public offering to mobilize the industry. In April, Deutsche Bank convened some 25 industry leaders for a two-day conference in Tarrytown, N.Y. The code is the outgrowth of that meeting. 
 ''The level of disagreement was probably not as great as it seemed,'' said Elisabeth Rhyne, the managing director of the Center for Financial Inclusion in Washington, which promotes commercial models of microfinancing with a social mission. ''You have people who have common ground for 75 percent of what they do.'' What came out of the New York conference, she said, was an agreement that ''this industry needs to assert its brand much more clearly.'' 
 The code requires institutions to avoid reckless lending that can lead to excessive indebtedness, a worry in light of the ''stunning example of the subprime crisis,'' said Ms. Rhyne. 
 It calls on institutions to adopt transparent pricing along with collection practices that are not abusive, and it commits lenders to protect clients' privacy and to offer them a way to resolve problems when they cannot pay. 
 Carlos Danel, a co-founder of Compartamos who was at the New York meeting, said the code of behavior ''comes out of the worry that the industry is more diverse. But we can set up some rules of the game over how we treat people.'' Since the code has no enforcement mechanism, the next step is to set up ways to measure how well microlenders are putting the rules into practice. That is where Compartamos may be able to shake off its strongest critics. 
 ''If we're able to establish a microbankers' code of conduct and if Compartamos is at the center of delivery on that,'' Alex Counts, the president of the Grameen Foundation, which supports microfinancing programs around the world, said, ''that would go a long way to address their critics.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricia Cruz Aviles last February. She received a loan from Mexico's Compartamos bank to make clothing. Debate over the bank's practices helped spur microlenders to write the rules.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ETHICS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); BOLSA (BMV) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (58%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (85%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



798 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Orders Drop Sharply for Factory Goods

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Spending by businesses on major items fell in August after three consecutive monthly increases, reinforcing the sense that businesses are nervous about making long-term investments in the current downturn. 
 Meanwhile, sales of newly constructed homes fell for the third time in four months, and prices continued to decline. 
 Orders for durable goods fell 4.5 percent, to $208.5 billion, the Commerce Department said on Thursday, a $9.9 billion decline. Durable goods are items intended to last three years or more, like automobiles, aircraft or household appliances.
 A closely watched gauge of business spending, which measures orders for civilian capital goods outside of aircraft, fell 2 percent. And even outside the transportation sector, which has been squeezed by high oil prices, orders dropped 3 percent.
 The biggest declines came in factory goods like metals and heavy machinery. Equipment used for transportation, down two of the last three months, declined 8.9 percent, and motor vehicle orders dipped 8.1 percent. Civilian aircraft orders lost 38.1 percent. 
 The durable goods report can be highly volatile from month to month, but economists were less than impressed by the August data.
 ''Over all, this is a very weak report,'' Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics in London, wrote in a note. But, he added, ''One month does not make a trend.''
 The Commerce Department said in a separate report that sales of newly built homes fell 11.5 percent in August, far more than economists had expected, to an annual pace of 460,000. That was the lowest level since the middle of the last housing recession, in January 1991.
 Sales were significantly lower in Northeastern and Western states; sales fell modestly in the Southwest and rose in the Midwest.
 Many would-be buyers are holding out for prices to fall further. The median price for a new home was $221,900 in August, down 6.2 percent from the previous year. The median price in July was $234,900.
 The decline in prices is a painful but necessary process of the recovery in the housing market. The fall-off in sales is keeping inventories high; the backlog of unsold new homes fell in nominal terms in August, but at the current sales rate, it would take 10.9 months to sell that inventory, compared with 10.3 months in July. A backlog of six months is considered the norm.
 Prices will have to fall much further before the market can recover, economists said.
 ''For a market that is apparently stabilizing, this report suggests that we need to be cautious before we call an end to the misery in the housing market,'' Rob Carnell, an economist at ING Bank in London, wrote in a note. ''Intense price pressure remains to be worked out of the system before this market can be said to have troughed.''
 In another report released on Thursday, the Labor Department said that the two recent hurricanes -- Ike and Gustav -- and the weak economy combined to push new applications for jobless benefits to a seven-year high. New claims rose to 493,000 last week, after adjusting for seasonal factors, the agency said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar and line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (50%); INGA (AMS) (50%); ING (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) MIDWEST USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



799 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Cuts Outlook, Citing Ills On Wall St.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Wall Street's woes are hurting General Electric, a corporate bellwether, raising fresh concerns that the impact of the financial turmoil will be severe on business profits and the wider economy.
 G.E. sharply reduced on Thursday its profit projections for the current quarter and the year, citing the ''unprecedented weakness and volatility in the financial services markets.''
 G.E. pinned the blame for the shortfall on its finance arm, GE Capital, whose global portfolio spans aircraft leasing, commercial real estate lending, credit cards and home mortgages. 
 It accounts for about half of the company's profits. G.E. said that its industrial business, making things ranging from power generators to jet engines to solar panels, was still doing well, especially outside the United States.
 The credit crisis, G.E. added, will not be short-lived. 
 The company said that ''difficult conditions in the financial services markets are not likely to improve in the near future.'' 
 In the last two weeks, through market gyrations, G.E. emphasized in a letter to investors posted on its Web site and, in replies to questions, that it was a rock-solid, very conservatively managed finance company -- a world apart from Wall Street's troubles.
 But on Thursday, G.E. lowered its earnings guidance for 2008 from $19.5 billion to $21 billion, or $1.95 to $2.10 a share. Previous guidance had been for profit was $22 billion to $23 billion, or $2.20 to $2.30 a share. 
 To conserve cash, G.E. said it would suspend its stock buyback program, trim its reliance on short-term commercial paper and reduce its leverage further.
 ''This is a capitulation quarter for G.E. as it acknowledges that it cannot escape the current credit market turmoil unscathed,'' Deane Dray, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a report on Thursday. 
 ''The company is taking a number of welcomed steps to reduce leverage and diversify its funding strategy.''
 Many companies besides G.E. will report disappointing profits for the remainder of the year, according to analysts and economists. The biggest impact, certainly, will be on companies in the financial sector, but the larger issue is how deeply and rapidly the credit crisis spills over into the rest of the corporate and consumer economy.
 ''We're seeing a very broad-based weakening of profits, with only a few sectors still holding up like energy, agriculture and perhaps health care,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody'sEconomy.com. ''And G.E. is a good measure of the corporate economy because it is in so many businesses.''
 The weakening economy has not yet hit capital spending, but analysts say that will probably change as the financial pinch makes it more difficult and expensive for companies to borrow funds. In the second quarter, capital spending by American companies rose a solid 5.2 percent.
 After the dot-com collapse -- an earlier bubble that burst -- capital spending fell 4.5 percent in 2001 and 9.4 percent more in 2002. The retreat this time is not expected to be so precipitous. ''But we're going to see a worsening of capital spending because of the intensification of the credit crunch,'' said John Lonski, an economist for Moody's Capital Markets Group.
 Over the years, companies have on average reported profits that exceed analysts' estimates by about 3 percent, according to ThomsonReuters, a financial research firm. That, of course, is partly because companies intentionally provide analysts with guidance that is cautious, because their stock prices rise only when their performance surpasses the consensus of analysts. 
 But starting in the second half of 2007, the usual pattern was reversed, largely because of the troubles of large mortgage lenders and Wall Street firms. Since then, reported results in total have consistently fallen short of estimates, by 5.6 percent in the most recent quarter that ended in June, said John Butters, an analyst at Thomson Reuters.
 Corporate earnings next year are expected to improve largely because 2008 has been so weak. Corporate profits will fall 8 percent this year, predicts Edward Yardeni, an independent economist and investment strategist, whose estimates are lower than the consensus projections. Next year, he expects corporate profits to rise about 14 percent (the consensus, as compiled by Thomson Reuters, is for 24 percent).
 Without a economic bailout package, Mr. Yardeni said he would be cutting his estimates further for next year. ''It should be a safety net for the economy and corporate profits,'' he said.
 GE Capital does not have the high-risk, exotic securities that got Wall Street firms into trouble, and it got out of home lending in the United States in 2007. (Its mortgages are overseas, with Britain its largest portfolio, where it holds $28 billion in home loans.) And G.E. executives portray the moves they announced on Thursday as giving a solid finance company -- with a triple-A credit rating -- even more ballast in uncertain times.
 ''We run the company for the long term and are taking the actions expected of a Triple-A company,'' said Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive. ''Given the recent dramatic developments in the financial markets, we have made some tough decisions to further reduce risk and strengthen our balance sheet while maintaining our dividend commitment.''
 G.E., analysts say, is not a company with toxic securities to sell to the government in a bailout. Still, investors certainly treated G.E. as a company, like so many, that would gain from the stability and improved business conditions resulting from a bailout. 
 After reducing its profit guidance, G.E. shares fell more than 3 percent on Thursday morning, but recovered on news reports that Congress and the White House were moving toward an agreement. G. E. shares rose 4.4 percent for the day, closing at $25.68 a share, up $1.09.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (71%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (64%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (63%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (56%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (56%); WEB SITES (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008



800 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE CLASS'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Be the Future of France

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
The young bodies crowding ''The Class,'' an artful, intelligent movie about modern French identity and the attempt to transform those bodies into citizens through talk, talk, talk, come in all sizes, shapes and colors. With their cellphones and pouts, these bored, restless junior high students look pretty much like the fidgety progeny of Anytown, U.S.A. One difference being that these African, Arab and Asian Parisians live in a country that insists its citizens have only one cultural identity, even if it is an identity-- as France's smoldering suburbs vividly suggest -- many of these same young people don't feel welcome to share. 
 ''The Class'' isn't directly about civil unrest and French identity as a republican ideal, though these issues run through it like a powerful current, keeping the children and adults (and the filmmaking) on edge. Rather, the director, Laurent Cantet -- using a small team and three high-definition video cameras -- keeps a steady eye on the children, these anxious, maddening little people flailing and sometimes stalling on the entryway to adulthood. He shows them giggling, arguing, boldly and shyly answering questions. He marks their victories and failures and, with brutal calm, shares some of the other lessons schoolchildren learn on their way to the office, factory, shop, unemployment line and perhaps even prison: sit down, raise your hand, stand up, get in line, keep quiet. 
 That's tough stuff, but ''The Class'' slides its points in at an angle, letting them emerge from the children's chatter instead of hanging its politics around these tender necks like placards. For audiences accustomed to big-screen pedagogical imperatives soaked in guilt and deep-fried in piety, this makes for an exotic change (though the HBO show ''The Wire'' covered similar ground) and might sound perilously dry. But ''The Class,'' which won the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival in May and opens the New York Film Festival on Friday night, is as much an emotional experience as a head trip. Mr. Cantet would prefer you to think (he is a French filmmaker, after all), but he's enough of an entertainer to milk an occasional tear.
 Just about as tightly focused as a documentary by Frederick Wiseman, the story unfolds almost entirely inside a school in the working-class, fast-gentrifying 20th arrondissement, a residential district on the city's farthermost eastern edge. You don't see much of the neighborhood (its most famous residents are taking the big sleep in the Pere-Lachaise Cemetery), though you do get to know several dozen of its younger inhabitants. A rainbow coalition of sullen boys and mouthy girls ages 13 and 14, the students are meant to be learning the finer points of the French language, parsing the differences between the passe compose and the imparfait, distinctions that seem nearly as foreign to them as does the reedy young teacher down in front.
 One of the most remarkable things about ''The Class'' is that this quietly stubborn, prickly man is Francois Begaudeau, who wrote the autobiographical novel on which the movie is based. (In France the original title for both is ''Between the Walls.'') Like the students, the administrators and other teachers -- all culled from the same school in the 20th -- Mr. Begaudeau is playing a fictionalized version of himself developed through weekly workshops, improvisations and a shoot that lasted a full academic year. Like Mr. Cantet's shooting style in this movie, he initially comes across as free-flowing, even loose, a guy whose jocular teasing suggests that he wants to be seen more as a friend than as an authority figure, one of us rather than one of them.
 He isn't, which proves this classroom's most difficult, painful lesson. Over the course of the year, Francois pushes and prods at his students, encouraging a bashful Chinese boy, Wei (Wei Huang), and trying to navigate around two pint-size terrors -- a lippy Arab girl, Sandra (Esmeralda Ouertani), and a belligerent African heartbreaker, Souleymane (Franck Keita) -- who test his patience with unsettling effectiveness. Souleymane, son of Malian immigrants, flashes some Arabic tattooed on his arm, challenging everyone with the barely suppressed rage that radiates off him at times like a fever. Sandra, meanwhile, in one of the story's few false notes, announces that she has read ''The Republic'' on her own time, a revelation that feels more directed at the audience's prejudices than at Francois's. 
 Despite this Platonic nod, Mr. Cantet, who shares the screenwriting credit with Mr. Begaudeau and Robin Campillo, tends to keep his ideas more strategically nestled in the unassuming guise of a documentary-inflected realism that plays a lot like life because that's precisely where it comes from. Here Mr. Cantet -- whose earlier features include ''Human Resources'' and ''Time Out,'' two other dramas about systems of power -- has done that rarest of things in movies about children: He has allowed them to talk. There's no question that he's occasionally overeager to speak on their behalf, but he's listening too, engaged in a conversation that's as urgently necessary in this country as it is in France. And, just in case you don't have a festival ticket, rest easy: ''The Class'' will open later this year. 
 THE CLASS
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Laurent Cantet; written (in French, with English subtitles) by Mr. Cantet, Francois Begaudeau and Robin Campillo, based on the novel ''Entre les Murs'' (''Between the Walls'') by Mr. Begaudeau; directors of photography, Pierre Milon, Catherine Pujol and Georgi Lazarevski; edited by Ms. Campillo and Stephanie Leger; produced by Carole Scotta, Caroline Benjo, Barbara Letellier and Simon Arnal; released by Sony Pictures Classics. At Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, as part of the 46th New York Film Festival. Running time: 2 hours 8 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Francois Begaudeau (Francois), Wei Huang (Wei), Esmeralda Ouertani (Sandra) and Franck Keita (Souleymane). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Film Festival: The lines between documentary and drama are often blurred, as in ''The Class,'' which has young Parisians playing fictional versions of themselves and opens the festival on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIERRE MILON/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); POLITICS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); FESTIVALS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Class, The (Movie)>; Class, The (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

 
