

401 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 5975 words

HEADLINE: At a Slaughterhouse, Some Things Never Die;
Who Kills, Who Cuts, Who Bosses Can Depend on Race

SERIES: HOW RACE IS LIVED IN AMERICA -- Sixth article of a series.

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: TAR HEEL, N.C.

 BODY:
It must have been 1 o'clock. That's when the white man usually comes out of his glass office and stands on the scaffolding above the factory floor. He stood with his palms on the rails, his elbows out. He looked like a tower guard up there or a border patrol agent. He stood with his head cocked.
One o'clock means it is getting near the end of the workday. Quota has to be met and the workload doubles. The conveyor belt always overflows with meat around 1 o'clock. So the workers double their pace, hacking pork from shoulder bones with a driven single-mindedness. They stare blankly, like mules in wooden blinders, as the butchered slabs pass by. 
 It is called the picnic line: 18 workers lined up on both sides of a belt, carving meat from bone. Up to 16 million shoulders a year come down that line here at the Smithfield Packing Co., the largest pork production plant in the world. That works out to about 32,000 a shift, 63 a minute, one every 17 seconds for each worker for eight and a half hours a day. The first time you stare down at that belt you know your body is going to give in way before the machine ever will.
On this day the boss saw something he didn't like. He climbed down and approached the picnic line from behind. He leaned into the ear of a broad-shouldered black man. He had been riding him all day, and the day before. The boss bawled him out good this time, but no one heard what was said. The roar of the machinery was too ferocious for that. Still, everyone knew what was expected. They worked harder.
The white man stood and watched for the next two hours as the blacks worked in their groups and the Mexicans in theirs. He stood there with his head cocked.
At shift change the black man walked away, hosed himself down and turned in his knives. Then he let go. He threatened to murder the boss. He promised to quit. He said he was losing his mind, which made for good comedy since he was standing near a conveyor chain of severed hogs' heads, their mouths yoked open.
"Who that cracker think he is?" the black man wanted to know. There were enough hogs, he said, "not to worry about no fleck of meat being left on the bone. Keep treating me like a Mexican and I'll beat him."
The boss walked by just then and the black man lowered his head.
 
Who Gets the Dirty Jobs
The first thing you learn in the hog plant is the value of a sharp knife. The second thing you learn is that you don't want to work with a knife. Finally you learn that not everyone has to work with a knife. Whites, blacks, American Indians and Mexicans, they all have their separate stations.
The few whites on the payroll tend to be mechanics or supervisors. As for the Indians, a handful are supervisors; others tend to get clean menial jobs like warehouse work. With few exceptions, that leaves the blacks and Mexicans with the dirty jobs at the factory, one of the only places within a 50-mile radius in this muddy corner of North Carolina where a person might make more than $8 an hour.
While Smithfield's profits nearly doubled in the past year, wages have remained flat. So a lot of Americans here have quit and a lot of Mexicans have been hired to take their places. But more than management, the workers see one another as the problem, and they see the competition in skin tones.
The locker rooms are self-segregated and so is the cafeteria. The enmity spills out into the towns. The races generally keep to themselves. Along Interstate 95 there are four tumbledown bars, one for each color: white, black, red and brown.
Language is also a divider. There are English and Spanish lines at the Social Security office and in the waiting rooms of the county health clinics. This means different groups don't really understand one another and tend to be suspicious of what they do know.
You begin to understand these things the minute you apply for the job.
 
Blood and Burnout
"Treat the meat like you going to eat it yourself," the hiring manager told the 30 applicants, most of them down on their luck and hungry for work. The Smithfield plant will take just about any man or woman with a pulse and a sparkling urine sample, with few questions asked. This reporter was hired using his own name and acknowledged that he was currently employed, but was not asked where and did not say.
Slaughtering swine is repetitive, brutish work, so grueling that three weeks on the factory floor leave no doubt in your mind about why the turnover is 100 percent. Five thousand quit and five thousand are hired every year. You hear people say, They don't kill pigs in the plant, they kill people. So desperate is the company for workers, its recruiters comb the streets of New York's immigrant communities, personnel staff members say, and word of mouth has reached Mexico and beyond.
The company even procures criminals. Several at the morning orientation were inmates on work release in green uniforms, bused in from the county prison.
The new workers were given a safety speech and tax papers, shown a promotional video and informed that there was enough methane, ammonia and chlorine at the plant to kill every living thing here in Bladen County. Of the 30 new employees, the black women were assigned to the chitterlings room, where they would scrape feces and worms from intestines. The black men were sent to the butchering floor. Two free white men and the Indian were given jobs making boxes. This reporter declined a box job and ended up with most of the Mexicans, doing knife work, cutting sides of pork into smaller and smaller products.
Standing in the hiring hall that morning, two women chatted in Spanish about their pregnancies. A young black man had heard enough. His small town the next county over was crowded with Mexicans. They just started showing up three years ago -- drawn to rural Robeson County by the plant -- and never left. They stood in groups on the street corners, and the young black man never knew what they were saying. They took the jobs and did them for less. Some had houses in Mexico, while he lived in a trailer with his mother.
Now here he was, trying for the only job around, and he had to listen to Spanish, had to compete with peasants. The world was going to hell.
"This is America and I want to start hearing some English, now!" he screamed.
One of the women told him where to stick his head and listen for the echo. "Then you'll hear some English," she said.
An old white man with a face as pinched and lined as a pot roast complained, "The tacos are worse than the niggers," and the Indian leaned against the wall and laughed. In the doorway, the prisoners shifted from foot to foot, watching the spectacle unfold from behind a cloud of cigarette smoke.
The hiring manager came out of his office and broke it up just before things degenerated into a brawl. Then he handed out the employment stubs. "I don't want no problems," he warned. He told them to report to the plant on Monday morning to collect their carving knives.
 
$7.70 an Hour, Pain All Day
Monday. The mist rose from the swamps and by 4:45 a.m. thousands of headlamps snaked along the old country roads. Cars carried people from the backwoods, from the single and doublewide trailers, from the cinder-block houses and wooden shacks: whites from Lumberton and Elizabethtown; blacks from Fairmont and Fayetteville; Indians from Pembroke; the Mexicans from Red Springs and St. Pauls.
They converge at the Smithfield plant, a 973,000-square-foot leviathan of pipe and steel near the Cape Fear River. The factory towers over the tobacco and cotton fields, surrounded by pine trees and a few of the old whitewashed plantation houses. Built seven years ago, it is by far the biggest employer in this region, 75 miles west of the Atlantic and 90 miles south of the booming Research Triangle around Chapel Hill.
The workers filed in, their faces stiffened by sleep and the cold, like saucers of milk gone hard. They punched the clock at 5 a.m., waiting for the knives to be handed out, the chlorine freshly applied by the cleaning crew burning their eyes and throats. Nobody spoke.
The hallway was a river of brown-skinned Mexicans. The six prisoners who were starting that day looked confused.
"What the hell's going on?" the only white inmate, Billy Harwood, asked an older black worker named Wade Baker.
"Oh," Mr. Baker said, seeing that the prisoner was talking about the Mexicans. "I see you been away for a while."
Billy Harwood had been away -- nearly seven years, for writing phony payroll checks from the family pizza business to buy crack. He was Rip Van Winkle standing there. Everywhere he looked there were Mexicans. What he didn't know was that one out of three newborns at the nearby Robeson County health clinic was a Latino; that the county's Roman Catholic church had a special Sunday Mass for Mexicans said by a Honduran priest; that the schools needed Spanish speakers to teach English.
With less than a month to go on his sentence, Mr. Harwood took the pork job to save a few dollars. The word in jail was that the job was a cakewalk for a white man.
But this wasn't looking like any cakewalk. He wasn't going to get a boxing job like a lot of other whites. Apparently inmates were on the bottom rung, just like Mexicans.
Billy Harwood and the other prisoners were put on the picnic line. Knife work pays $7.70 an hour to start. It is money unimaginable in Mexico, where the average wage is $4 a day. But the American money comes at a price. The work burns your muscles and dulls your mind. Staring down into the meat for hours strains your neck. After thousands of cuts a day your fingers no longer open freely. Standing in the damp 42-degree air causes your knees to lock, your nose to run, your teeth to throb.
The whistle blows at 3, you get home by 4, pour peroxide on your nicks by 5. You take pills for your pains and stand in a hot shower trying to wash it all away. You hurt. And by 8 o'clock you're in bed, exhausted, thinking of work.
The convict said he felt cheated. He wasn't supposed to be doing Mexican work. After his second day he was already talking of quitting. "Man, this can't be for real," he said, rubbing his wrists as if they'd been in handcuffs. "This job's for an ass. They treat you like an animal."
He just might have quit after the third day had it not been for Mercedes Fernandez, a Mexican. He took a place next to her by the conveyor belt. She smiled at him, showed him how to make incisions. That was the extent of his on-the-job training. He was peep-eyed, missing a tooth and squat from the starchy prison food, but he acted as if this tiny woman had taken a fancy to him. In truth, she was more fascinated than infatuated, she later confided. In her year at the plant, he was the first white person she had ever worked with.
The other workers noticed her helping the white man, so unusual was it for a Mexican and a white to work shoulder to shoulder, to try to talk or even to make eye contact.
As for blacks, she avoided them. She was scared of them. "Blacks don't want to work," Mrs. Fernandez said when the new batch of prisoners came to work on the line. "They're lazy."
Everything about the factory cuts people off from one another. If it's not the language barrier, it's the noise -- the hammering of compressors, the screeching of pulleys, the grinding of the lines. You can hardly make your voice heard. To get another's attention on the cut line, you bang the butt of your knife on the steel railings, or you lob a chunk of meat. Mrs. Fernandez would sometimes throw a piece of shoulder at a friend across the conveyor and wave good morning.
 
The Kill Floor
The kill floor sets the pace of the work, and for those jobs they pick strong men and pay a top wage, as high as $12 an hour. If the men fail to make quota, plenty of others are willing to try. It is mostly the blacks who work the kill floor, the stone-hearted jobs that pay more and appear out of bounds for all but a few Mexicans. Plant workers gave various reasons for this: The Mexicans are too small; they don't like blood; they don't like heavy lifting; or just plain "We built this country and we ain't going to hand them everything," as one black man put it.
Kill-floor work is hot, quick and bloody. The hog is herded in from the stockyard, then stunned with an electric gun. It is lifted onto a conveyor belt, dazed but not dead, and passed to a waiting group of men wearing bloodstained smocks and blank faces. They slit the neck, shackle the hind legs and watch a machine lift the carcass into the air, letting its life flow out in a purple gush, into a steaming collection trough.
The carcass is run through a scalding bath, trolleyed over the factory floor and then dumped onto a table with all the force of a quarter-ton water balloon. In the misty-red room, men slit along its hind tendons and skewer the beast with hooks. It is again lifted and shot across the room on a pulley and bar, where it hangs with hundreds of others as if in some kind of horrific dry-cleaning shop. It is then pulled through a wall of flames and met on the other side by more black men who, stripped to the waist beneath their smocks, scrape away any straggling bristles.
The place reeks of sweat and scared animal, steam and blood. Nothing is wasted from these beasts, not the plasma, not the glands, not the bones. Everything is used, and the kill men, repeating slaughterhouse lore, say that even the squeal is sold.
The carcasses sit in the freezer overnight and are then rolled out to the cut floor. The cut floor is opposite to the kill floor in nearly every way. The workers are mostly brown -- Mexicans -- not black; the lighting yellow, not red. The vapor comes from cold breath, not hot water. It is here that the hog is quartered. The pieces are parceled out and sent along the disassembly lines to be cut into ribs, hams, bellies, loins and chops.
People on the cut lines work with a mindless fury. There is tremendous pressure to keep the conveyor belts moving, to pack orders, to put bacon and ham and sausage on the public's breakfast table. There is no clock, no window, no fragment of the world outside. Everything is pork. If the line fails to keep pace, the kill men must slow down, backing up the slaughter. The boxing line will have little to do, costing the company payroll hours. The blacks who kill will become angry with the Mexicans who cut, who in turn will become angry with the white superintendents who push them.
 
10,000 Unwelcome Mexicans
The Mexicans never push back. They cannot. Some have legitimate work papers, but more, like Mercedes Fernandez, do not.
Even worse, Mrs. Fernandez was several thousand dollars in debt to the smugglers who had sneaked her and her family into the United States and owed a thousand more for the authentic-looking birth certificate and Social Security card that are needed to get hired. She and her husband, Armando, expected to be in debt for years. They had mouths to feed back home.
The Mexicans are so frightened about being singled out that they do not even tell one another their real names. They have their given names, their work-paper names and "Hey you," as their American supervisors call them. In the telling of their stories, Mercedes and Armando Fernandez insisted that their real names be used, to protect their identities. It was their work names they did not want used, names bought in a back alley in Barstow, Tex.
Rarely are the newcomers welcomed with open arms. Long before the Mexicans arrived, Robeson County, one of the poorest in North Carolina, was an uneasy racial mix. In the 1990 census, of the 100,000 people living in Robeson, nearly 40 percent were Lumbee Indian, 35 percent white and 25 percent black. Until a dozen years ago the county schools were de facto segregated, and no person of color held any meaningful county job from sheriff to court clerk to judge.
At one point in 1988, two armed Indian men occupied the local newspaper office, taking hostages and demanding that the sheriff's department be investigated for corruption and its treatment of minorities. A prominent Indian lawyer, Julian Pierce, was killed that same year, and the suspect turned up dead in a broom closet before he could be charged. The hierarchy of power was summed up on a plaque that hangs in the courthouse commemorating the dead of World War I. It lists the veterans by color: "white" on top, "Indian" in the middle and "colored" on the bottom.
That hierarchy mirrors the pecking order at the hog plant. The Lumbees -- who have fought their way up in the county apparatus and have built their own construction businesses -- are fond of saying they are too smart to work in the factory. And the few who do work there seem to end up with the cleaner jobs.
But as reds and blacks began to make progress in the 1990's -- for the first time an Indian sheriff was elected, and a black man is now the public defender -- the Latinos began arriving. The United States Census Bureau estimated that 1,000 Latinos were living in Robeson County last year. People only laugh at that number.
"A thousand? Hell, there's more than that in the Wal-Mart on a Saturday afternoon," said Bill Smith, director of county health services. He and other officials guess that there are at least 10,000 Latinos in Robeson, most having arrived in the past three years.
"When they built that factory in Bladen, they promised a trickledown effect," Mr. Smith said. "But the money ain't trickling down this way. Bladen got the money and Robeson got the social problems."
In Robeson there is the strain on public resources. There is the substandard housing. There is the violence. Last year 27 killings were committed in Robeson, mostly in the countryside, giving it a higher murder rate than Detroit or Newark. Three Mexicans were robbed and killed last fall. Latinos have also been the victims of highway stickups.
In the yellow-walled break room at the plant, Mexicans talked among themselves about their three slain men, about the midnight visitors with obscured faces and guns, men who knew that the illegal workers used mattresses rather than banks. Mercedes Fernandez, like many Mexicans, would not venture out at night. "Blacks have a problem," she said. "They live in the past. They are angry about slavery, so instead of working, they steal from us."
She and her husband never lingered in the parking lot at shift change. That is when the anger of a long day comes seeping out. Cars get kicked and faces slapped over parking spots or fender benders. The traffic is a serpent. Cars jockey for a spot in line to make the quarter-mile crawl along the plant's one-lane exit road to the highway. Usually no one will let you in. A lot of the scuffling is between black and Mexican.
 
Black and Bleak
The meat was backing up on the conveyor and spilling onto the floor. The supervisor climbed down off the scaffolding and chewed out a group of black women. Something about skin being left on the meat. There was a new skinner on the job, and the cutting line was expected to take up his slack. The whole line groaned. First looks flew, then people began hurling slurs at one another in Spanish and English, words they could hardly hear over the factory's roar. The black women started waving their knives at the Mexicans. The Mexicans waved theirs back. The blades got close. One Mexican spit at the blacks and was fired.
After watching the knife scene, Wade Baker went home and sagged in his recliner. CNN played. Good news on Wall Street, the television said. Wages remained stable. "Since when is the fact that a man doesn't get paid good news?" he asked the TV. The TV told him that money was everywhere -- everywhere but here.
Still lean at 51, Mr. Baker has seen life improve since his youth in the Jim Crow South. You can say things. You can ride in a car with a white woman. You can stay in the motels, eat in the restaurants. The black man got off the white man's field.
"Socially, things are much better," Mr. Baker said wearily over the droning television. "But we're going backwards as black people economically. For every one of us doing better, there's two of us doing worse."
His town, Chad Bourne, is a dreary strip of peeling paint and warped porches and houses as run-down as rotting teeth. Young men drift from the cinder-block pool hall to the empty streets and back. In the center of town is a bank, a gas station, a chicken shack and a motel. As you drive out, the lights get dimmer and the homes older until eventually you're in a flat void of tobacco fields.
Mr. Baker was standing on the main street with his grandson Monte watching the Christmas parade march by when a scruffy man approached. It was Mr. Baker's cousin, and he smelled of kerosene and had dust in his hair as if he lived in a vacant building and warmed himself with a portable heater. He asked for $2.
"It's ironic isn't it?" Mr. Baker said as his cousin walked away only eight bits richer. "He was asking me the same thing 10 years ago."
A group of Mexicans stood across the street hanging around the gas station watching them.
"People around here always want to blame the system," he said. "And it is true that the system is antiblack and antipoor. It's true that things are run by the whites. But being angry only means you failed in life. Instead of complaining, you got to work twice as hard and make do."
He stood quietly with his hands in his pockets watching the parade go by. He watched the Mexicans across the street, laughing in their new clothes. Then he said, almost as an afterthought, "There's a day coming soon where the Mexicans are going to catch hell from the blacks, the way the blacks caught it from the whites."
Wade Baker used to work in the post office, until he lost his job over drugs. When he came out of his haze a few years ago, there wasn't much else for him but the plant. He took the job, he said, "because I don't have a 401K." He took it because he had learned from his mother that you don't stand around with your head down and your hand out waiting for another man to drop you a dime.
Evelyn Baker, bent and gray now, grew up a sharecropper, the granddaughter of slaves. She was raised up in a tar-paper shack, picked cotton and hoed tobacco for a white family. She supported her three boys alone by cleaning white people's homes.
In the late 60's something good started happening. There was a labor shortage, just as there is now. The managers at the textile plants started giving machine jobs to black people.
Mrs. Baker was 40 then. "I started at a dollar and 60 cents an hour, and honey, that was a lot of money then," she said.
The work was plentiful through the 70's and 80's, and she was able to save money and add on to her home. By the early 90's the textile factories started moving away, to Mexico. Robeson County has lost about a quarter of its jobs since that time.
Unemployment in Robeson hovers around 8 percent, twice the national average. In neighboring Columbus County it is 10.8 percent. In Bladen County it is 5 percent, and Bladen has the pork factory.
Still, Mr. Baker believes that people who want to work can find work. As far as he's concerned, there are too many shiftless young men who ought to be working, even if it's in the pork plant. His son-in-law once worked there, quit and now hangs around the gas station where other young men sell dope.
The son-in-law came over one day last fall and threatened to cause trouble if the Bakers didn't let him borrow the car. This could have turned messy; the 71-year-old Mrs. Baker keeps a .38 tucked in her bosom.
When Wade Baker got home from the plant and heard from his mother what had happened, he took up his pistol and went down to the corner, looking for his son-in-law. He chased a couple of the young men around the dark dusty lot, waving the gun. "Hold still so I can shoot one of you!" he recalled having bellowed. "That would make the world a better place!"
He scattered the men without firing. Later, sitting in his car with his pistol on the seat and his hands between his knees, he said, staring into the night: "There's got to be more than this. White people drive by and look at this and laugh."
 
Living It, Hating It
Billy Harwood had been working at the plant 10 days when he was released from the Robeson County Correctional Facility. He stood at the prison gates in his work clothes with his belongings in a plastic bag, waiting. A friend dropped him at the Salvation Army shelter, but he decided it was too much like prison. Full of black people. No leaving after 10 p.m. No smoking indoors. "What you doing here, white boy?" they asked him.
He fumbled with a cigarette outside the shelter. He wanted to quit the plant. The work stinks, he said, "but at least I ain't a nigger. I'll find other work soon. I'm a white man." He had hopes of landing a roofing job through a friend. The way he saw it, white society looks out for itself.
On the cut line he worked slowly and allowed Mercedes Fernandez and the others to pick up his slack. He would cut only the left shoulders; it was easier on his hands. Sometimes it would be three minutes before a left shoulder came down the line. When he did cut, he didn't clean the bone; he left chunks of meat on it.
Mrs. Fernandez was disappointed by her first experience with a white person. After a week she tried to avoid standing by Billy Harwood. She decided it wasn't just the blacks who were lazy, she said.
Even so, the supervisor came by one morning, took a look at one of Mr. Harwood's badly cut shoulders and threw it at Mrs. Fernandez, blaming her. He said obscene things about her family. She didn't understand exactly what he said, but it scared her. She couldn't wipe the tears from her eyes because her gloves were covered with greasy shreds of swine. The other cutters kept their heads down, embarrassed.
Her life was falling apart. She and her husband both worked the cut floor. They never saw their daughter. They were 26 but rarely made love anymore. All they wanted was to save enough money to put plumbing in their house in Mexico and start a business there. They come from the town of Tehuacan, in a rural area about 150 miles southeast of Mexico City. His mother owns a bar there and a home but gives nothing to them. Mother must look out for her old age.
"We came here to work so we have a chance to grow old in Mexico," Mrs. Fernandez said one evening while cooking pork and potatoes. Now they were into a smuggler for thousands. Her hands swelled into claws in the evenings and stung while she worked. She felt trapped. But she kept at it for the money, for the $9.60 an hour. The smuggler still had to be paid.
They explained their story this way: The coyote drove her and her family from Barstow a year ago and left them in Robeson. They knew no one. They did not even know they were in the state of North Carolina. They found shelter in a trailer park that had once been exclusively black but was rapidly filling with Mexicans. There was a lot of drug dealing there and a lot of tension. One evening, Mr. Fernandez said, he asked a black neighbor to move his business inside and the man pulled a pistol on him.
"I hate the blacks," Mr. Fernandez said in Spanish, sitting in the break room not 10 feet from Mr. Baker and his black friends. Mr. Harwood was sitting two tables away with the whites and Indians.
After the gun incident, Mr. Fernandez packed up his family and moved out into the country, to a prefabricated number sitting on a brick foundation off in the woods alone. Their only contact with people is through the satellite dish. Except for the coyote. The coyote knows where they live and comes for his money every other month.
Their 5-year-old daughter has no playmates in the back country and few at school. That is the way her parents want it. "We don't want her to be American," her mother said.
 
'We Need a Union'
The steel bars holding a row of hogs gave way as a woman stood below them. Hog after hog fell around her with a sickening thud, knocking her senseless, the connecting bars barely missing her face. As co-workers rushed to help the woman, the supervisor spun his hands in the air, a signal to keep working. Wade Baker saw this and shook his head in disgust. Nothing stops the disassembly lines.
"We need a union," he said later in the break room. It was payday and he stared at his check: $288. He spoke softly to the black workers sitting near him. Everyone is convinced that talk of a union will get you fired. After two years at the factory, Mr. Baker makes slightly more than $9 an hour toting meat away from the cut line, slightly less than $20,000 a year, 45 cents an hour less than Mrs. Fernandez.
"I don't want to get racial about the Mexicans," he whispered to the black workers. "But they're dragging down the pay. It's pure economics. They say Americans don't want to do the job. That ain't exactly true. We don't want to do it for $8. Pay $15 and we'll do it."
These men knew that in the late 70's, when the meatpacking industry was centered in northern cities like Chicago and Omaha, people had a union getting them $18 an hour. But by the mid-80's, to cut costs, many of the packing houses had moved to small towns where they could pay a lower, nonunion wage.
The black men sitting around the table also felt sure that the Mexicans pay almost nothing in income tax, claiming 8, 9, even 10 exemptions. The men believed that the illegal workers should be rooted out of the factory. "It's all about money," Mr. Baker said.
His co-workers shook their heads. "A plantation with a roof on it," one said.
For their part, many of the Mexicans in Tar Heel fear that a union would place their illegal status under scrutiny and force them out. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union last tried organizing the plant in 1997, but the idea was voted down nearly two to one.
One reason Americans refused to vote for the union was because it refuses to take a stand on illegal laborers. Another reason was the intimidation. When workers arrived at the plant the morning of the vote, they were met by Bladen County deputy sheriffs in riot gear. "Nigger Lover" had been scrawled on the union trailer.
Five years ago the work force at the plant was 50 percent black, 20 percent white and Indian, and 30 percent Latino, according to union statistics. Company officials say those numbers are about the same today. But from inside the plant, the breakdown appears to be more like 60 percent Latino, 30 percent black, 10 percent white and red.
Sherri Buffkin, a white woman and the former director of purchasing who testified before the National Labor Relations Board in an unfair-labor-practice suit brought by the union in 1998, said in an interview that the company assigns workers by race. She also said that management had kept lists of union sympathizers during the '97 election, firing blacks and replacing them with Latinos. "I know because I fired at least 15 of them myself," she said.
The company denies those accusations. Michael H. Cole, a lawyer for Smithfield who would respond to questions about the company's labor practices only in writing, said that jobs at the Tar Heel plant were awarded through a bidding process and not assigned by race. The company also denies ever having kept lists of union sympathizers or singled out blacks to be fired.
The hog business is important to North Carolina. It is a multibillion-dollar-a-year industry in the state, with nearly two pigs for every one of its 7.5 million people. And Smithfield Foods, a publicly traded company based in Smithfield, Va., has become the No. 1 producer and processor of pork in the world. It slaughters more than 20 percent of the nation's swine, more than 19 million animals a year.
The company, which has acquired a network of factory farms and slaughterhouses, worries federal agriculture officials and legislators, who see it siphoning business from smaller farmers. And environmentalists contend that Smithfield's operations contaminate local water supplies. (The Environmental Protection Agency fined the company $12.6 million in 1996 after its processing plants in Virginia discharged pollutants into the Pagan River.) The chairman and chief executive, Joseph W. Luter III, declined to be interviewed.
Smithfield's employment practices have not been so closely scrutinized. And so every year, more Mexicans get hired. "An illegal alien isn't going to complain all that much," said Ed Tomlinson, acting supervisor of the Immigration and Naturalization Service bureau in Charlotte.
But the company says it does not knowingly hire illegal aliens. Smithfield's lawyer, Mr. Cole, said all new employees must present papers showing that they can legally work in the United States. "If any employee's documentation appears to be genuine and to belong to the person presenting it," he said in his written response, "Smithfield is required by law to take it at face value."
The naturalization service -- which has only 18 agents in North Carolina -- has not investigated Smithfield because no one has filed a complaint, Mr. Tomlinson said. "There are more jobs than people," he said, "and a lot of Americans will do the dirty work for a while and then return to their couches and eat bonbons and watch Oprah."
 
Not Fit for a Convict
When Billy Harwood was in solitary confinement, he liked a book to get him through. A guard would come around with a cartful. But when the prisoner asked for a new book, the guard, before handing it to him, liked to tear out the last 50 pages. The guard was a real funny guy.
"I got good at making up my own endings," Billy Harwood said during a break. "And my book don't end standing here. I ought to be on that roof any day now."
But a few days later, he found out that the white contractor he was counting on already had a full roofing crew. They were Mexicans who were working for less than he was making at the plant.
During his third week cutting hogs, he got a new supervisor -- a black woman. Right away she didn't like his work ethic. He went too slow. He cut out to the bathroom too much.
"Got a bladder infection?" she asked, standing in his spot when he returned. She forbade him to use the toilet.
He boiled. Mercedes Fernandez kept her head down. She was certain of it, she said: he was the laziest man she had ever met. She stood next to a black man now, a prisoner from the north. They called him K. T. and he was nice to her. He tried Spanish, and he worked hard.
When the paychecks were brought around at lunch time on Friday, Billy Harwood got paid for five hours less than everyone else, even though everyone punched out on the same clock. The supervisor had docked him.
The prisoners mocked him. "You might be white," K. T. said, "but you came in wearing prison greens and that makes you good as a nigger."
The ending wasn't turning out the way Billy Harwood had written it: no place to live and a job not fit for a donkey. He quit and took the Greyhound back to his parents' trailer in the hills.
When Mrs. Fernandez came to work the next day, a Mexican guy going by the name of Alfredo was standing in Billy Harwood's spot.
 
About the Series
Two generations after the end of legal discrimination, race still ignites political debates. But the wider public discussion of race relations seems muted. Race relations are being defined less by political action than by daily experience, in schools, in sports arenas, in pop culture and at worship, and especially in the workplace. These encounters -- race relations in the most literal, everyday sense -- make up this series of reports, the outcome of a yearlong examination by Times reporters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Picnic line" workers, mostly Mexican, hack pork from bones.; The kill floor sets the pace for the plant. The jobs there, hot and bloody, pay the top wage, $12 an hour, and are filled mainly by black men. (Photographs by EDWARD KEATING/The New York Times)(pg. A25); Wade Baker, a plant worker, top, with his mother, Evelyn. "We're going backwards as black people economically," he says, and attributes the delcine to the Mexicans - here gathered for a saint's festival - who work for lower pay. As a convict, Billy Harwood, who is white, cut meat alongside Mexicans, but not for long. (pg. A24); A white foreman and a black kill-floor worker at the Smithfield slaughterhouse in Tar Hell, N.C. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (69%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD PACKING CO SMITHFIELD PACKING CO INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHFIELD PACKING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; TAR HEEL (NC); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEAT; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; BLACKS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; SURVEYS AND SERIES ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (92%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PORK (75%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (66%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



402 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO SLIDES. The euro fell after Ernst Welteke, a member of the European Central Bank, predicted no interest-rate rise before September. In New York, the euro settled at 95.35 cents, down from 95.96 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (84%); 

PERSON: ERNST WELTEKE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



403 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Rise Of 0.4% In Industrial Production

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
A burst in output at utilities helped send industrial production up in May, the government reported today.
The Federal Reserve said that industrial production at factories, mines and utilities rose a solid 0.4 percent, surprising economists who had predicted that output would decline by 0.3 percent. 
 Warmer than normal weather bolstered output at gas and electric utilities 1.4 percent in May, the second consecutive month of sharp rises.
Output in the manufacturing sector grew 0.3 percent last month, with much of the gain coming from increased production of computers and other business equipment, the Fed reported. But production of consumer goods, including cars and household appliances, fell.
Economists said the Fed's latest snapshot of industrial activity offered mixed signals about the economy.
The unexpected rise in the total output -- albeit slower than the 0.7 percent increase posted in April -- still suggests much strength, some analysts said.
"This report reminded the Fed that the slowing we've seen isn't uniform in the economy," said Paul Ferley, economist with the Bank of Montreal and Harris Bank.
The decline in output of consumer goods, however, appeared to be in line with other economic data suggesting a slowdown in the economy.
"The pullback in consumer goods output is probably more important to the Fed than the overall rise in output because it suggests the Fed's six previous interest rate hikes are working," said Mark Vitner, economist with First Union.
The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates six times since last June to cool the economy and keep inflation under control.
Recent economic data, including home sales, retail sales, factory orders and unemployment, indicate that the economy is slowing. Given that, a growing number of economists believe that the central bank will leave rates unchanged when it meets June 27-28.
Many economists had predicted that industrial production would decline in May largely because total hours of work in the manufacturing sector fell and factories cut jobs during that period.
That manufacturing output and total industrial production both rose in May suggests that growth in productivity -- output per hour of work -- was exceptionally strong, economists said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Industrial Production"
Index of total industrial production, 1992=100, seasonally adjusted.
 
Graph tracks industrial production since Oct., 1998.
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (82%); BMO (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF MONTREAL (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



404 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: With Accord Set, Ethiopia and Eritrea Pause in Fighting

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, June 15

 BODY:
Fighting between Ethiopian and Eritrean soldiers paused today as ministers from both nations prepared to sign a preliminary cease-fire on Sunday that would involve yet another role for United Nations peacekeepers in a conflict in Africa.
In all, the two-year war -- which has cost tens of thousands of lives -- seems decisively closer to an end. Today top ministers from each nation were preparing to travel back to Algeria to sign the document brokered there by the Organization of African Unity over the last two weeks. On Wednesday night, a final hurdle was cleared when Ethiopia accepted the plan, which Eritrea approved last week. 
 Outside officials said they were cautiously optimistic that this was the first concrete step toward peace.
"It's more than a simple 'O.K., we will not shoot,' " said a senior administration official in the United States, which was deeply involved in negotiating the deal. "It's a very solid foundation to deal with remaining issues.
"The important thing is that in signing this they are committing to resolving these issues politically and peacefully and not through the barrel of a gun," the official said.
The plan calls for an immediate cease-fire and the creation of a 15-mile buffer zone, outside the range of most artillery fire, to be patrolled by United Nations peacekeepers. That buffer zone would be entirely in Eritrean territory, reflecting the gains Ethiopia won on the ground in the last month.
But officials said the signing would be only the first step toward a resolution of the conflict. The heart of the final deal is an independent commission to establish the border between the two nations officially, a complicated process involving century-old colonial treaties that are far from clear. Disagreement over who owned what, in fact, set off the war in May 1998.
There is also a question of what will happen in the next weeks or months, in the time between the signing and the arrival of the first peacekeepers. Ethiopian forces will remain on Eritrean territory until then -- and for two weeks afterward -- and no one rules out further skirmishes.
Officials from both sides, however, said today that they would respect the cease-fire and that they would now turn their attention to the demarcation of their 620-mile border. The issue may be particularly important to Eritrea because Ethiopian troops have not only pushed it out of the disputed areas but now occupy land that unquestionably belongs to Eritrea.
"Territorial gains mean nothing," said Yemane Ghebremeskel, a spokesman for the Eritrean president, Isaias Afwerki.
Ethiopian officials, denying that their losses were huge, cast the war as a protection of their sovereignty, which they say Eritrea violated by moving troops into several areas along the border it claimed as its own in May 1998. Selome Taddesse, a spokeswoman for Ethiopia's prime minister, Meles Zenawi, said she believed it would be proved that the territory belonged to Ethiopia.
"I am confident we have nothing to lose," she said.
Before the war began, Ethiopia and Eritrea had been allies, with growing economies and a close friendship with many Western nations, the United States chief among them. In 1993, Eritrea, for a generation the northernmost province of Ethiopia, won its independence, though the new border between them was never officially marked off.
A series of border skirmishes escalated quickly into full-scale warfare, with long lines of trenches, tanks, artillery bombardments and air raids. In the process two nations considered to be the most stable on the Horn of Africa -- in the same region as Sudan and Somalia, in a near-constant state of war -- were also thrown into disarray.
Officials from both nations, as well as Western countries looking to restore that stability, say they hope they can begin to concentrate again on developing their now-demolished economies.
One major issue outstanding is exactly what role the United Nations will play and when. A United Nations spokeswoman, Marie Okabe, said a three-member planning team was expected to go Algeria this weekend to begin preparations for the deployment of peacekeepers.
But, she said, the Security Council has not decided whether to actually send them. So there are no estimates of when they could go, from which countries and in what numbers.
The agreement comes at an awkward time for United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa, only weeks after dozens of peacekeepers were kidnapped in Sierra Leone. That debacle has cast doubt on a planned operation for Congo, in which 5,537 peacekeepers and observers have been approved to shore up a shaky peace deal among six nations fighting there.
Several officials said, however, that the peacekeeping operation in Ethiopia and Eritrea would be far more straightforward: peacekeepers could be deployed along a clearly established front line between opposing armies that have largely fought by the generally accepted rules of war. There are none of the irregular forces or renegade rebel troops that can make peacekeeping operations far more complicated, uncertain and treacherous.
"It's a very different operation," the United States official said. "But obviously the parties are going to have to live up their agreement. And there is no justifiable reason for guns to be fired once this agreement is signed."
Amid the vague language of the preliminary peace agreement, there are already differing interpretations in how each side views the peacekeepers' role. Ms. Taddesse said the peacekeepers must be confined to the buffer zone in Eritrea. Mr. Ghebremeskel, the Eritrean spokesman, said he understood that peacekeepers were to patrol both sides of the border.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (98%); ERITREA (96%); AFRICA (94%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (58%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION FOR AFRICAN UNITY; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (57%); AFRICAN UNION (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR AFRICAN UNITY; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (57%); AFRICAN UNION (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ERITREA; ETHIOPIA; ETHIOPIA (98%); ERITREA (96%); AFRICA (94%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES WAR & CONFLICT (92%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); APPROVALS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



405 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: THE KOREAN BREAKTHROUGH -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
Divining the Big Event: A Ray of Hope, at Least

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
The agreement signed at the summit meeting in Pyongyang on Wednesday, just days shy of the 50th anniversary of the start of the Korean War, was brimming with words that heralded the arrival of peace. Yet the two countries are still technically at war, and no one wants to raise the question of who would govern a unified nation.
Japan's prime minister likened the breakthrough to the fall of the Berlin Wall, yet the DMZ remains firmly in place, an ugly barbed-wire scar across the Korean peninsula. There is no popular uprising against the Communist government in the North, and no serious discussion of removing the troops and weaponry that line both sides of the border. 
 Nonetheless, American officials trying today to puzzle their way through North Korea's apparent, or at least public, change of attitude said they saw the first real glimmer of hope that one of the last remnants of the cold war could gradually erode, and that North Korea might soon be regarded less as a rogue state and more like just another failed state.
"Exactly what's going on is hard to read," said Nicholas Eberstadt, a longtime Korea scholar at the American Enterprise Institute here. "Kim Jong Il proved that he really is a moviemaker, and he made himself the star," Mr. Eberstadt said, referring to the North Korean leader's obsession with the cinema, which once led him to kidnap a South Korean director and a famous actress to build him a film industry.
But no one in Washington pretends to understand the rest of the script in Mr. Kim's latest production. In meetings at the White House and the State Department today, some wondered aloud whether the sudden emergence of the reclusive North Korean leader was a one-time anomaly or a radical change of strategy.
Is he prepared to pull his troops back from the demilitarized zone and dismantle the tens of thousands of mortar and missiles that could destroy Seoul in an hour? And, if so, should the United States be ready to talk about pulling its 37,000 troops out of the Korean peninsula, as the North has demanded for years? Could a country whose major export consists of missiles and arms shipped to the Middle East break off that arms trade, or satisfy the United States that it should be removed from the State Department's list of terrorist nations?
If its actions match its good words, the desperately poor country will suddenly be eligible for a range of international goodies, including aid from the World Bank and the I.M.F. But the aid would inevitably come attached to communications technology, an influx of foreigners and outside ideas -- all anathema in a country where radios can only be tuned to the official government stations.
"This clearly has to be taken as a change in North Korean tactics in how to engage the world," said Robert Gallucci, who negotiated the 1994 deal with North Korea to freeze its nuclear program and is now the dean of Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service. "Whether it is a strategic change, or whether this is truly a new North Korean approach to the world, it is simply too early to know. There is a lot of history here -- war, terrorism, nuclear ambitions, incidents at sea -- that suggests the need for a lot of caution."
None of those issues were discussed at length at the summit meeting. But South Korean officials who telephoned Washington today said Kim Dae Jung had raised the questions of North Korea's nuclear program and missile exports in his talk with his North Korean counterpart.
But he did so chiefly to alert Kim Jong Il that these issues remain stumbling blocks, American and South Korean officials said, and he made no effort to address them in a meeting that was mostly about setting a tone of cooperation.
The full briefing for American officials will come tomorrow and this weekend, when South Korea's national security adviser arrives here.
So the Clinton administration today was clearly trying to balance caution with encouragement for Kim Jong Il, a man until recently regarded as an Asian Saddam Hussein.
"There is a good deal of euphoria in the South," said one senior administration official who has been deeply involved in negotiations with the North for years. "But is there a change in the million-man army? In the missile program? In the North's nuclear ambitions?"
The only conclusion the administration could safely reach, he said this afternoon, was "not yet."
The depth of the new opening by the North will be plumbed repeatedly in the next few months -- by South Korea, Japan and the United States. The United States has missile talks with the North that begin in a few weeks. Japan is negotiating a possible resumption of diplomatic relations -- if it can resolve the issue of Japanese women believed kidnapped by the North, and the country's continued harboring of members of the Japanese Red Army terrorist group. South Korea, once the euphoria dies down, will learn whether the exchanges of families, the communications links and the cultural exchanges -- all promised before -- turn into reality.
But there is no question that with this week's summit meeting, the Clinton administration finds itself at a very different place from six years ago this week. Then, the United States was about to support sanctions against North Korea for its refusal to allow inspectors to visit the site of its suspected nuclear weapons program.
Mr. Clinton was warned by his top military advisers that the North could make good on its threat that it would respond to the sanctions by invading the South. Mr. Clinton was about to order more troops to the region, to back up the B-2 bombers he had recently dispatched to within easy reach of the DMZ.
Now, a policy of rapproachment that the administration entered reluctantly -- at the urging of South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, when he came to office two years ago -- has radically changed the atmosphere. The mystery is whether it has also changed the nature of the North Korean threat. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMS SALES ABROAD INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMS TRADE (88%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); FILM (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; KIM JONG IL; KIM DAE JUNG KIM JONG IL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



406 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Soros to Turn to Outsiders To Help Run Hedge Fund
George Soros said that a $6.5 billion revamped Quantum Fund would seek lower returns and be run in part by outside money managers as he continues to withdraw from hands-on management of his huge hedge funds.
Mr. Soros, 69, said he would put more of his money into more stable real estate and private equity investments. He also said that the new fund, which will be created by merging the Quantum Emerging Growth Fund with the Quantum Fund, would rely less on borrowed money than in the past. Page C2. 

Legal Maneuvering in Napster Case
Napster, the Internet service that allows music files to be transmitted online, said that it was hiring David Boies, the lawyer who led the government's case against Microsoft, to help defend it in a battle with the recording industry in a case that many see as landmark for technology-era copyright issues. The industry has asked a court to stop Napster from operating pending the outcome of the trial. C6.
 
Boeing Plans to Sell St. Louis Unit
Boeing said that it was in talks to sell a parts operation with 1,700 employees at a plant in St. Louis to improve its efficiency. Potential buyers were not disclosed. The unit makes parts from sheet metal and composite materials, the type of work Boeing has sought to shed to concentrate on design, final assembly and services like maintenance. Shares of Boeing, based in Seattle, rose $1.3125, to $40.125. C8.
 
Three Top Stock Gauges Post Gains
Stocks rose, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 26.87 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,714.82. The Nasdaq composite index rose 48.33 points, or 1.3 percent, to 3,845.74, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.19 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,478.73. C9.
 
Foreign Steel Makers Attack Limits
American limits on steel imports have cost United States consumers up to $150 billion in the last three decades, according to a study sponsored by foreign steel producers. The Clinton administration dismissed the report, which was written by lawyers for foreign steel makers and supported by the American Institute for International Steel, as biased. C4.
 
'Survivor' Could Help CBS Thrive
CBS's enormous summer hit, "Survivor," soared to new ratings heights on Wednesday night, pulling in more viewers than CBS has had on any Wednesday night since the Nielsen Media Research company transformed its ratings system in 1987. Given the effect that ABC's "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" had on the last television season, when it expanded from a summer show to a regular-season show, "Survivor" has the potential to turn around CBS's ratings fortunes. C5.
 
Oil Investor Is Accused of Fraud
A federal judge has said that investors in Aspen, Colo., have a "substantial likelihood" of proving a fraud and racketeering case against Viktor Kozeny, an investment promoter who persuaded them to put up $450 million in an investment-gone-bad. The case involves a venture, managed by Mr. Kozeny, to acquire control of the lucrative state-run petroleum company in Azerbaijan. C4.
 
Microsoft Replies to Appeals Brief
Microsoft told the Court of Appeals that the judges should ignore a government brief asking them not to begin work on the company's antitrust appeal until the Supreme Court decides whether to consider it. C6.
 
Industrial Production Rises 0.4%
A burst in output at utilities helped send industrial production up 0.4 percent in May, the government reported, surprising economists who had predicted a decline of 0.3 percent. C5.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,714.82 up 26.87
Nasdaq composite -- 3,845.74 up 48.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.92% up 0.01
The euro -- $0.9535 down 0.0061
The dollar -- 106.59yen down 0.10
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Housing Construction since Nov.
 
Graph tracks Boeing share price since Thurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NAPSTER INC (91%); BOEING CO (83%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HEDGE FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (85%); REALITY TELEVISION (84%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); COPYRIGHT (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); JUDGES (69%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (68%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



407 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: Efficiency on Wheels;
U.S. Auto Industry Is Catching Up With the Japanese

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

 BODY:
The Ford Taurus factory in Atlanta has no air-conditioning to ward off the sweltering heat of the Georgia summer. Its scuffed concrete floors and sooty ceiling beams hold the grit of 53 years of car-building. On the assembly line, orange robots weld car roofs and sides and, farther down, hundreds of men and women install the cars' interiors. To all appearances, it is an utterly ordinary car factory.
Yet the Atlanta plant is, in fact, special. According to a highly regarded annual study released yesterday, it was the most efficient in North America last year, representing the first time that an American-owned auto plant has surpassed Japanese-owned factories on this continent in labor productivity. 
 What is more, productivity has improved across the United States auto industry in recent years. While the Ford plant in Atlanta ranked as No. 1, the biggest overall efficiency gains last year took place at General Motors, which was once known for inefficiency. The Ford Motor Company is the most efficient American automaker, although its performance was marginally worse by some measures last year because of the production of very big, complicated vehicles like the new Ford Excursion sport utility.
Over the last several years, the Big Three Detroit-based automakers have gradually made up much, though certainly not all, of the productivity gap between their factories and those owned by the Japanese.
They have done so mainly through improved management and organization rather than through the use of high-technology computers and robots, though they have integrated such equipment into their factories, according to Harbour & Associates, a consulting firm in Troy, Mich., that issued the report yesterday. Japanese automakers continue to set the standard in quality, but better management is helping Detroit automakers start to catch up in reliability, too, although estimates vary widely for precisely how much the quality gap has closed.
"In terms of overall performance, not just labor productivity, they continue to close the gap," said Ronald E. Harbour, the consulting firm's president. "But the Japanese are not standing still, and still lead in quality, productivity and manufacturing cost."
In the 1980's, the productivity gap between American and Japanese factories, particularly auto factories, was a major preoccupation for politicians, corporate executives and investors alike. Ten years of economic stagnation in Japan and the rise of American high-technology industries have pushed auto productivity comparisons out of the limelight. But while attention has moved on to Microsoft and the Internet, much has changed in the nation's auto factories.
"In the 1980's, there was a widely held, popular view that Japan represented the economic future," said Robert Shapiro, the under secretary of commerce for economic affairs. "Since the 1980's, the U.S. auto industry has recovered very nicely, and in part that reflects productivity gains."
A decade ago, General Motors, Ford and what is now the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler required more than twice as much labor as their Japanese competitors to build a car. Today they need 21 percent to 46 percent more hours of labor in the factory. That is still a hefty disadvantage, to be sure, but it is manageable because factory labor now accounts for only a tenth of the cost of a car, as other expenses, like design and engineering, have grown throughout the industry.
Detroit's problem is that it has been unable to improve management practices at all factories. But a few of the Big Three's best-run factories are now as efficient as the Japanese operations or more so, according to the study by Harbour, which prepares yearly reports based on confidential productivity data from the seven leading automakers in North America. Auto factories in Japan are slightly more efficient than Japanese-owned factories in the United States, because they are closer to some of their suppliers, but the gap with these factories has narrowed, too, Mr. Harbour said.
The most productive factories are not distinguished by a higher degree of automation than their competitors. Robots are now commonplace for physically strenuous or dangerous tasks, but humans have proved themselves less expensive for many other tasks. Indeed, the most automated assembly plant in North America, the Mitsubishi midsize car factory in Normal, Ill., also had some of the lowest labor productivity last year because so many employees were constantly required to keep the robots maintained and repaired, Mr. Harbour said.
What really seems to separate the productive factories from the inefficient ones is something more basic than automation, and yet more complex. "It's good management," Mr. Harbour said.
What particularly efficient factories have in common, he said, is that they seldom shut down their assembly lines in the middle of a shift. As a result, they rarely require unscheduled overtime to meet production quotas. G.M., Ford and Chrysler assembly lines suffered frequent shutdowns until recently, because workers were absent or auto parts reached the assembly line that were defective or did not fit together easily. The assembly lines of Japanese-owned factories almost never stop in the middle of shifts.
Senior managers at Japanese automakers tend to say that high productivity comes from a constant attention to detail, advice that American automakers are starting to follow. "There is no silver bullet," said Daryl Wilson, Toyota's vice president for manufacturing in Canada. The Toyota Corolla factory in Cambridge, Ontario, was North America's most efficient in 1998.
At Ford's factory in Atlanta, which displaced the Toyota plant as most efficient last year, strong labor-management relations have permitted more attention to detail. Until the last few months, absenteeism was just 2 percent, one-third the rate at many factories in Michigan and Ohio. So, the factory seldom needed to use substitute workers, who are less familiar with the tasks at hand.
The absentee rate inched up to 3 percent early this year, upsetting Steve Trousdale, the chairman of the local unit of the United Automobile Workers union, who is determined that the Atlanta factory not be chosen for layoffs in the next recession.
In April, Mr. Trousdale sent a strongly worded letter to every union member.
"Attendance must improve," it said.
"If AWOL's go down, job security goes up," the letter continued.
"You must be responsible and come to work!" the letter concluded, in boldface capital letters printed in extra-large type.
The national leadership of the U.A.W. discourages competition among local unions for fear that automakers will play them off against one another. But Mr. Trousdale, loyal to the workers in Atlanta who elected him, disregards such concerns. "I've got to look at what is good for the Atlanta work force," he said last month at the factory. "I don't really look at what somebody else thinks."
Yet the Atlanta factory still has union work rules guaranteeing that workers with the most seniority receive the easiest jobs, a system that limits management's flexibility. Japanese automakers, which are nonunion, do not face such rules, and organize their employees into more flexible teams that take whatever tasks most need doing.
Todd Cooper, a 32-year-old worker on the Ford assembly line in Atlanta, has the task of putting 35-pound dashboards into cars day after day, grueling work assigned to those with little seniority. But he accepts this as better than his previous job as an electrician on construction sites. "I don't have to work outside in the cold and the rain," he said last month, eating a sandwich from his lunchbox while sitting, exhausted, on a crate next to the line.
In Windsor, Ontario, DaimlerChrysler is also paying close attention to details. Sandra Bouckley, the company's manager for advanced minivan manufacturing, is trying to change the way her company prepares for the introduction of a new model.
When Chrysler redid the minivan in 1995, it closed its minivan factories in Windsor and St. Louis for nearly three months to replace equipment, losing sales. This year, Ms. Bouckley has already had the assembly line extended to make room for old and new machinery, and she has had much of the new equipment brought in over weekends. As a result, the Windsor factory will close for only two weeks between models.
"This was a philosophical, technological deviation from the way we've always done business, and we decided we'd test it in Windsor," Ms. Bouckley said.
That is a big improvement, but Japanese automakers sometimes change models in a day by making even more elaborate preparations. By contrast, DaimlerChrysler will close its St. Louis minivan factory for seven weeks this summer because the company is not yet able to change over two factories quickly at the same time.
Until the mid-1990's, G.M. was the least efficient automaker in North America in stamping car hoods, doors, roofs and other parts out of big sheets of steel. Then, Joseph Spielman became G.M.'s vice president for metal parts stamping in 1994. And now, the company is the most efficient of the Big Three in stamping by some productivity measures but trails well behind Honda and Toyota. Mr. Spielman has managed this partly by standardizing equipment: he reduced the number of sizes of stamping presses to just 6 from 57, for example.
That made it easier to service the machines and exchange parts among them, allowing G.M. to make do with only 200 stamping presses instead of the 350 it had in 1993. Since each press is as big as a Boeing 737-300 and carries the same price tag, $32 million, the investment savings have been huge. But G.M. has not been able to reduce employment to match because of its restrictive labor contracts, Mr. Harbour said.
It is hard to improve upon Mr. Spielman's self-description: "6-foot-6 1/2 and 250 pounds of romp and stomp." But as far as the U.A.W. and its members were concerned, Mr. Spielman had a little too much romp and stomp until recently. Upset by his demands for better productivity, workers at a factory in Flint, Mich., started a strike two years ago that crippled the company's production for two months, costing it $2 billion in after-tax profits.
In the aftermath of the strike, both sides have been committed to greater cooperation, and Mr. Spielman has become an outspoken advocate of worker involvement. "It isn't me out there with a cattle prod or a whip," he said. "It's people out there saying, 'This is ours; this is our plant.' "
Blue-collar workers in factories are now in close touch with white-collar engineers sitting at computers in office buildings. Workers with questions about blueprints used to be told to mail letters to the engineers, waiting two weeks or more for a reply. Since January, workers have been sending e-mail messages to engineers, using personal computers in the factories. Mr. Spielman requires the engineers to respond within 24 hours.
James DeLair, the local union vice president in Flint, said the changes had been noticeable. "There seems to be a whole lot more interest in what the worker has to say," Mr. DeLair said. "The working relationship, hourly to salaried, could still use improvement, but upper management wants to make things better."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Terri Jones, an instrument panel installer, on the job, above, in Atlanta at Ford Motor's Taurus factory, which yesterday was named the most efficient in North America for 1999. It is the first American-owned auto plant to surpass Japanese-owned factories on this continent in labor productivity. (Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Larry Hunter, a steering column assembler, at the Ford Taurus plant in Atlanta. An efficiency study found that strong labor-management relations at the factory have permitted more attention to detail. (Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Graph: "Gaining Speed"
American automakers are improving productivity, narrowing the gap with their Japanese counterparts.
 
Workers needed to make one vehicle* a day at factories in the U.S. and Canada
 
*Includes cars and light trucks only Results worsened with addition of larger cars and sport utility vehicles
 
(Source: Harbour & Associates)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRODUCTIVITY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ROBOTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (95%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); RANKINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (56%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



408 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
QUEENS: DOCTORS CONVICTED
Two doctors with troubled medical histories were convicted Wednesday in State Supreme Court in Queens of practicing medicine without authorization. Dr. Ana Marie Santi, 61, had her license to administer anesthesia suspended in 1998 after the death of a patient undergoing liposuction. Dr. Peter Corines, 51, had his license revoked last year, though the revocation had been stayed for a period. Dr. Corines owns Surgical Consultants P.C., an outpatient clinic in Queens, and had hired Dr. Santi even though he knew her license was suspended, the jury found. Both doctors face up to four years in prison. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT) 

 MANHATTAN: YOUTH COMMISSIONER
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has appointed Jerry Cammarata, left, an ally on the Board of Education, as commissioner of the city's Department of Youth and Community Development. He replaces Martin Oesterreich, who left last year to head the Department of Homeless Services. Mr. Cammarata, a speech pathologist, said yesterday that he would give up a $15,000 annual stipend from the Board of Education but keep his seat, which he has held since 1995. A Staten Island resident, he will earn $133,000 overseeing a $140 million annual budget for youth programs and community development projects, including adult literacy programs. Abby Goodnough (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: COUPLE CONVICTED
A Bronx couple accused of forcing two Nigerian immigrants to be their personal servants were convicted of involuntary servitude. The convictions, on Wednesday, came after a prosecutor told the jury in Federal District Court that Prosper and Ifeoma Udogwu had badly mistreated two girls, 10 and 13. Mrs. Udogwu was a child welfare worker when the couple arranged to bring the girls from Nigeria. (AP)
 
MANHATTAN: OFFICER SUES
A former police officer fired for shooting an unarmed squeegee man is suing to get his job back. The former officer, Michael Meyer, was acquitted last year of criminal charges in the 1998 off-duty shooting of Antoine Reid. In papers filed Wednesday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, Mr. Meyer said the internal departmental trial that led to his firing was prejudiced because of "the extraordinary amount of adverse publicity." On June 14, 1998, Mr. Reid tried to wash the windshield of Mr. Meyer's car, which led to a confrontation. The former officer fired a single shot into Mr. Reid's chest. (AP)
 
MANHATTAN: STRIKE PRESSURES RISING
Leaders of Local 1-2 of the Utility Workers of America said yesterday that chances were growing that the union would go on strike on June 25 against KeySpan Energy, a new company that produces 25 percent of New York City's energy. Jerry Waters, a vice president of the local, said KeySpan's negotiators walked out of a bargaining session on Monday but were hinting that they wanted to resume talks. "We're miles apart from a settlement," he said. The local's contract expires on June 25 with Consolidated Edison and three other companies that have entered the New York market as a result of industry deregulation: KeySpan, Orion Power Holdings and the NRG Energy unit of Northern States Power.
 Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
TRENTON: TRANSPORT BILL
Republican leaders agreed yesterday to funnel $3.75 billion over the next four years to continue a statewide road and transportation building program. Differences between bills pending in the State Senate and Assembly had delayed a decision on how much the Transportation Trust Fund would get. The compromise bill requires lawmakers to vote on any new highway and caps salaries, operating expenses and the amount the state can borrow. (AP)
 
TRENTON: BEAR HUNT OPPOSED
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman has asked state officials to halve plans for a large-scale hunt to thin New Jersey's growing bear population, and a Senate panel has cleared a bill to ban the hunts. The State Fish and Game Council has proposed allowing 350 bears to be killed, more than a third of the state's estimated 1,000 bears. Governor Whitman wants only 175 bears hunted. Homeowners and farmers have complained that bears have threatened children and killed livestock. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
HACKENSACK: TEACHER ARRESTED
A 27-year-old teacher was arrested yesterday on charges that he had sex with a 14-year-old student at the teacher's home in East Rutherford and at Hackensack Middle School. The teacher, Jeffrey Levine, was charged with aggravated sexual assault and endangering the welfare of a child, the Bergen County prosecutor's office announced. Phone messages left at Mr. Levine's home were not returned. The student was not identified.
 Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
TRENTON: SEX OFFENDER BILL
With no debate, the State Assembly agreed to make New Jersey the first state with a constitutional amendment guaranteeing that details about convicted sex offenders can be posted online. Yesterday's 72-to-2 vote put the measure one step closer to voters, who have ultimate authority on amendments. The amendment would allow the state to post on the Internet the names, addresses, physical descriptions and criminal histories of convicted sex offenders who fall under a local notification procedure known as Megan's Law. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
HADDAM: NUCLEAR PLANT PHASE-OUT
The Connecticut Yankee nuclear power plant has been disconnected from the power grid as a safety measure as workers pull down miles of wires as part of the decommissioning of the plant. The plant's four steam generators have already been removed, and work crews are now focused on the heart of the nuclear plant. Northeast Utilities, the plant's chief owner, decided in 1996 to decommission the plant because it was not economically feasible to keep it running. (AP)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (81%); NG (LSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (81%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (81%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NIGERIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NIGERIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ACQUITTAL (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (72%); BUDGETS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (69%); DISMISSALS (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); CHILD WELFARE (69%); STRIKES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%); HOMELESSNESS (53%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



409 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE BUDGET SURPLUS;
With Visions of Bonanza, Gore Will Offer $500 Billion in Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: LOCKLAND, Ohio, June 15

 BODY:
Expecting a shower of gold at the end of the month when new budget surplus estimates are released, Vice President Al Gore said today that he would offer Americans $500 billion in tax cuts over 10 years.
The amount is twice what Mr. Gore had proposed earlier and half of what his Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, has proposed. Mr. Gore has been extremely critical of Mr. Bush's proposal, saying that the nation cannot afford it and that vital programs and entitlement benefits would have to be cut to pay for it. 
 Gore aides said the chief difference between their proposals was that the vice president's tax cuts would be limited primarily to families with children and aging parents. Mr. Bush's income tax cut of $1.3 trillion over 10 years would apply to everybody across the board.
Mr. Gore is basing his proposal on the expectation that the federal budget surplus outside of Social Security, already forecast to range from $750 billion to $2 trillion, will expand by perhaps $1 trillion. He had already proposed the broad outlines of most of the tax cuts, but today he offered estimates of how much money he would devote to each.
In a discussion at a food warehouse here, the presumptive Democratic nominee said his plan would cover long-term care, college tuition, day care, relief for parents who stay at home with infants and relief from the so-called marriage penalty, which has long been proposed by Republicans.
The tax credits he outlined today would make up to $10,000 in college tuition costs tax deductible; give care-givers a $3,000 tax credit to help care for elderly parents, provide a tax credit for after-school programs and make the existing child-care tax credit refundable.
Another part of the $500 billion would include tax-free retirement accounts to supplement Social Security, the details of which he said he would discuss next week.
"This tax relief package for middle-income families can help to solve the most important challenges that families face today," Mr. Gore said. "This package, big as it is, stands in sharp contrast to an alternative that would completely eliminate the budget surplus and threaten the underlying prosperity."
The discussion here in Lockland, a Cincinnati suburb of about 4,400 people, came on the third day of Mr. Gore's "progress and prosperity tour," which is designed to take the vice president to battleground states and give him a chance to highlight the booming economy and take some credit for it.
The tour is premised on Mr. Gore's belief that the economy is his trump card in the election. He says the unprecedented growth in the economy has given the nation the luxury of talking about "big ideas," though on his tour he has mostly offered new ways of spending the swelling surplus rather than wrestled with philosophical choices.
But Mr. Gore is also proposing ways to make money. At two fund-raisers in New York on Wednesday night, he gave a mini-preview of a speech on the environment that he plans to make the week after next, when he will argue, as President Clinton has, that protecting the environment does not have to mean sacrificing the economy, and that in fact money can be made off cleaning up the environment.
"In the third week of this series of speeches, I'm going to be talking about how we can create millions of good new jobs by investing in the new technologies that are far more efficient that will position us to be more competitive, that will put us in first place in the 21st century in making and selling the kind of products that people all over the world in crowded, polluted cities are trying to buy," he told one group of campaign donors.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); TUITION FEES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AGING (74%); CHILDREN (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); MARRIAGE (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (65%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



410 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Putin and the Plutocrats

 BODY:
The shape of Vladimir Putin's presidency could well be determined by the unfolding clash between the Russian leader and the small group of business titans who control much of their nation's wealth. Certainly, Mr. Putin faces no more difficult task than determining how to curb their political and economic influence without trampling on Russia's newly found freedoms. His government has not made a promising start by arresting Vladimir Gusinsky, an oligarch who owns Russia's only independent television network and some of its most fearless newspapers and magazines. Mr. Putin seemed to acknowledge as much yesterday when he called the arrest "excessive."
There is good reason to be alarmed by the raw power often exercised by the tycoons. Like the moguls who built corporate empires in the United States in the first decades of industrialization, the Russian business barons have taken advantage of an unregulated economy to gain control of banks, transportation systems and natural resources like oil and gas. With a hand from government officials, they bought valuable state enterprises for a pittance when the Kremlin privatized Russia's industrial assets after the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
 They have used their wealth to manipulate Russian politics to protect their financial interests. Sometimes those interests have dovetailed with reform, as when the oligarchs supported Boris Yeltsin for re-election in 1996 against a Communist opponent. But that is not always so. The tycoons, for example, have opposed effective banking regulation and an overhaul of Russia's broken tax system.
Russian democracy will remain stunted as long as the oligarchs retain a stranglehold on the economy and the Kremlin. But the problem cannot be solved overnight, nor can it be remedied by arresting the businessmen or misusing prosecutorial powers to intimidate them, which seems to be the case with Mr. Gusinsky. Rather than reverting to the practices of a police state, Mr. Putin must begin the hard but essential work of creating a system of law and regulation that over time diminishes the power of the magnates and insures a more equitable distribution of economic assets as Russia develops its free-market economy.
Because Mr. Gusinsky and some of the other moguls like Boris Berezovsky, Vladimir Potanin and Mikhail Khodorkovsky own large news organizations, any government move against the oligarchs inevitably raises sensitive free-press issues. The arrest of Mr. Gusinsky this week was especially unsettling because his media companies have carried the most critical coverage of Mr. Putin and the war in Chechnya. The growth of a robust and inquisitive free press in Russia has been one of the most encouraging developments since the demise of Communism, and should not become a casualty of conflicts between the government and the oligarchs. Mr. Putin must find a way to challenge the power of the tycoons that does not eviscerate the liberties Russians so recently won. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TRENDS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); GUSINSKY, VLADIMIR A VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); VLADIMIR POTANIN (79%); BORIS BEREZOVSKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



411 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Three Movies and a Funeral

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
If you want to understand Syrian politics today, after Hafez al-Assad's death, go to the video store and check out three movies: "Pinocchio," "The Wizard of Oz" and "Godfather II."
"Pinocchio" is useful because if you believe that Bashar al-Assad has, by himself, orchestrated his own smooth succession of his father, well, then I have some lakeshore property in the Syrian desert I'd like to sell you. Bashar is Pinocchio; the real question is who is Gepetto? Who is pulling the strings behind the scene?
Until last week Bashar's only title was head of the Syrian Computer Society. Within hours after his father's death he was named the armed forces commander, and the Syrian Parliament passed a law lowering the minimum age of the Syrian president from 40 to 34. Bashar is 34. You have to love that. They didn't bother with 30 or 25, they went right to B-34. Bingo. Who whispered to the Parliament to do that? Bashar alone? I don't think so.
It would be wrong to assume that Bashar is simply a puppet. He appears more serious than that. But it would be unwise to assume he is ruling alone. His father met a lot of opposition when he tried to elevate Bashar earlier. So Bashar needs friends. For the moment a coalition of Alawite tribal elders, key army officers and his sister's powerful husband, Gen. Asef Shoukat, seem to have come together to back him. This means that the real question is not simply what sort of Syria Bashar wants, but what sort of Syria his Gepettos want. 
 "What we have here is a coalition of the family, the elders and the chieftains who have decided that Bashar offers the best vehicle for survival, because with Bashar they can present a united front against the great challenges ahead," said Rob Satloff, head of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. "He offers the image of a liberalizer, perhaps enough to keep Syria's Sunni majority from exploding after the passing of the reviled Hafez, but not one who will go too far. He offers the image of an economic reformer, who can entice foreign investment and economic aid, but not one who will crack down on corruption too harshly. And with Bashar they have someone who, unlike his father, might actually smile at Israelis, without giving away anything in substance."
Which leads to our next film, "The Wizard of Oz." You know the scene -- the one where Dorothy's house lands on the Wicked Witch and all the munchkins come out to sing "Ding, dong, the witch is dead." That is exactly how many Syrians feel today about the end of President Assad's cruel tyranny. Syria's Sunni elite, and the rising new generation, are hungry to join today's global conversation.
If you want to understand Syria today, study Iran. The Iranian mullahs kept the lid on almost as tight as Hafez did, but when they finally had an election 75 percent of Iranians voted for the leader who wanted to loosen the lid.
The single most underestimated force in international affairs today is what happens -- thanks to globalization -- when we all increasingly know how everyone else lives. People everywhere start to demand the same things, and when they can't get them, they get frustrated. No wonder the Syrian lawmaker Youssef Jedani was quoted in The Times as saying of Bashar: "There are very high expectations, because he's young and open and wants to give more liberty and democracy." But Mr. Jedani added: "I think he'll follow the same rhythm as his father. You can't go fast here."
Oh, yeah? There is a lot of repressed energy in Syria, and the young will not put up with indefinitely from Bashar what they put up with for so many years from his father. Managing that pent-up energy may be Bashar's biggest challenge.
Provided Bashar survives -- which brings us to "Godfather II." No sooner was Hafez dead than his brother Rifaat, who in 1982 saved the family's rule by crushing the Muslim fundamentalist uprising in Hama, claimed Syria's leadership. Rifaat is in exile, but he controls an Arabic satellite TV station, which he uses to beam messages into Damascus. Could Bashar ever do to Rifaat what Michael Corleone did to his brother Fredo when he proved disloyal in "Godfather II" -- have one of his thugs take Fredo fishing and then shoot him in the head? If I were Rifaat, I wouldn't go fishing with any strangers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SYRIA (98%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA; SYRIA (98%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUNNI MOSLEMS POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (74%); ARMIES (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); RELIGION (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ASSAD, BASHAR AL-; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); ASSAD, RIFAAT AL-; SHOUKAT, ASEF (GEN) BASHAR AL-ASSAD (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



412 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: THE KOREAN BREAKTHROUGH -- THE OVERVIEW;
SEOUL CELEBRATES DAWN OF 'NEW DAY' AS TALKS CONCLUDE

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 15

 BODY:
In a triumphant return home from his summit meeting with North Korea, President Kim Dae Jung told jubilant South Koreans today that "a new day is beginning" for their divided people.
"When I was in Pyongyang, I realized Pyongyang is our land," Mr. Kim said in an address at the airport as he returned from three days of talks with his North Korean counterpart, Kim Jong Il. "People in Pyongyang are our people. And they have deep-rooted love for their southern compatriots. 
 "We are at the juncture of opening a new chapter in our history, putting an end to 55 years of division and hostility," he told the thousands of children and officials who turned out to give him a hero's welcome, much of it orchestrated by the government.
After the speech, the president's motorcade drove past cheering crowds, as tens of thousands of colorful balloons were released into the skies over downtown Seoul. As the limousines moved through the city, many South Koreans sang "Our Wish Is Unification," a song popular on both sides of the heavily fortified border between the two countries. Earlier in the day, the two leaders also sang the song at a lavish banquet while joining hands.
Upon arriving home, the South Korean leader tried to calm concerns among his allies in Washington and Tokyo that security issues had been ignored during the talks. During his speech at the airport, Kim Dae Jung said that he and Kim Jong Il had indeed had frank discussions on sensitive security issues, including the North's nuclear and missile programs as well as the 37,000 American soldiers stationed in the South.
Kim Dae Jung did not describe in detail what he and the North Korean leader had said about the security matters, which were not mentioned in their final agreement signed on Wednesday. He only said their talks had been frank and productive.
The accord, which produced a common agenda for national reconciliation and -- theoretically -- eventual reunification, will of course face many obstacles before it is implemented. Still, the agreement was widely praised today.
"As in the case of the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the agreement constitutes a major change toward peace," said Japan's prime minister, Yoshiro Mori.
China, North Korea's one remaining true ally, also hailed the accord in unusually strong terms.
But the United States, which has continued to station troops in South Korea to defend against an attack from the North, was considerably more guarded in its praise.
"Certainly a reduction in tensions is important, but on the specific issue of possible missile threats, I haven't seen nor heard of anything in the summit that negates that," said Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman. The Clinton administration, citing the potential threat from North Korea's long-range ballistic missile program, has proposed developing an antimissile shield to guard against what it considers "rogue states" like North Korea, Iran and Iraq.
But the Russian Foreign Ministry strongly praised the outcome of the talks. The two Koreas "will have to do a great deal of difficult work to overcome the mutual prejudice and mistrust that had been accumulating for decades," a ministry statement said. "Russia intends to make an active contribution to this process." And, in fact, President Vladimir V. Putin is to make the first visit by a Russian president to North Korea this year, probably in July.
The accord also included agreements on family reunions and the repatriation of Communist prisoners, and a pledge not to engage in offensive military operations against each other. And the accord covered other things as well, like rail connections, hot lines between leaders, offices in each other's capitals and joint economic projects.
While the two countries have agreed to many things in the past, it has never been done at the level of a summit meeting -- and never with such apparent good will.
Beginning with a surprise greeting of the South Korean president at the Pyongyang airport by the 58-year-old Kim Jong Il, the meetings between the two men seemed to evolve into a rolling, emotional getting-to-know- you party. So warm were the currents between them by the end that the two men embraced firmly on the tarmac just before Kim Dae Jung boarded his return flight home.
Despite the goodwill, hard questions over the implementation of the agreement are expected to emerge in the coming days. But few here seem likely to forget the extraordinary distance traveled in the short time since secret talks began between the two sides in Beijing in March. So completely had their history of war and hostile ideologies separated them, in fact, that even the Korean language they both use had evolved in ways that made it difficult to draft talking papers.
"It is so exciting that I am sort of floating right now," said Chang Ching Wee, a political scientist at Yonsei University in Seoul. "It is difficult to think."
But Mr. Chang quickly grew sober and spoke of the difficult work ahead that would be required to transform the diplomatic feats of Pyongyang into lasting political achievements. "It will take time and continuous effort to implement what these two gentlemen have agreed upon," he said. "Everyone is excited because this was so unexpected, but there will be surely be difficulties ahead."
South Korean officials speaking off the record, and others who watch relations between the two Koreas closely say that a rough sequence of events has been outlined, and that many of the ideas emerged in draft form in six or more secret talks held before the summit meeting.
"It would be wrong to look at what just happened as ceremonial," said one senior South Korean official. "But many points were worked on beforehand."
The official said that as a confidence-building measure, North Korea would allow dramatic reunions for a symbolic but significant number of the nearly two million South Korean families that have lost contact with their relatives in the North since the end of the Korean War.
The South, meanwhile, will extend millions of dollars' worth of financial assistance to the North, whose collapsing barter economy has suffered repeated setbacks in the last decade.
Only after these steps have been taken will serious talks begin on security issues, and a path be cleared for a visit to Seoul by Kim Jong Il, which is seen as an important gauge here of his commitment to progress.
Many experts said there were reasons to hope that the self-assured performance of the previously little known Kim Jong Il during the summit would encourage further confidence building and moderation.
Leon V. Sigal, a North Korea expert at the Social Science Research Council in New York, said, "All this speaks of a lot of self-confidence which may mean they are ready to begin doing things a bit differently."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea and his wife, Lee Hee Ho, flanking President Kim Jong Il of North Korea to sing "Our Wish Is Unification" at a lunch yesterday in Pyongyang. The event in the Baekhwawon Guest House was given at the end of the summit meeting. (Pool photo via Associated Press)(pg. A16); Dim Dae Jung, right, and Kim Jong Il ended their talks yesterday. (Pool photo, via Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; CHINA; RUSSIA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY BASES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); KIM JONG IL; BOUCHER, RICHARD KIM JONG IL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



413 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Drought Bakes Much of South, Periling Crops

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS 

DATELINE: VALPARAISO, Neb., June 15

 BODY:
The pond on Dave Barry's farm, once six feet deep, has dried to a mud puddle, surrounded by ominous purple flowers atop alfalfa that is blooming far too soon.
"It should reach two feet before it blooms, but it's only four inches," Mr. Barry said today as a hot, dry wind ruffled the stumpy plants. "It's fit for a lawn mower. It's done." 
 Here in eastern Nebraska, in a swath of the Gulf Coast from Florida to New Orleans, in the hills of West Texas and in Georgia and Alabama, pockets of extraordinary drought, by some measures the worst in a century, are baking farms and homes.
In Florida, alligators are roaming out of lakes and ponds that have all but disappeared. In southeast Louisiana, rice crops and drinking wells are being ruined by salt water that has seeped into the parched aquifer. In West Texas, ranchers are selling off goats and sheep as the grasslands dry up. In Georgia, the red soil is baked hard as concrete.
Here and there this week, the first rain in months has fallen. But far more will be needed and the damage is already done for many farmers.
John Saichuk, a rice specialist in Louisiana State University's Cooperative Extension Service, says salt water that has been drawn into the depleted aquifer is killing crops and could ruin the soil and next year's crop.
In Concho County, Tex., Lance Rasch, the county extension agent, said most ranchers had liquidated their herds, with only 25 percent of the livestock left compared with four years ago. Some large ranches have no livestock, he said.
But not just farmers are feeling the effects.
In the lush suburban neighborhoods of Tampa, Fla., and Atlanta, "water police" roam, enforcing restrictions on watering lawns.
Parched communities in northern Florida have become tinderboxes, with almost daily brush fires in several counties. The smoke from one brush fire that raged just outside Orlando this month set off fire alarms in a downtown hotel.
Despite the severity in some areas, the effects are not as widespread as in some past droughts.
"This is not a drought of national geography," Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said. Mr. Glickman said the drought had not affected prices and production of major crops like wheat, corn and soybeans or pushed up food prices, as a nationwide drought did in 1988. "I don't believe we're going to have that."
Nevertheless, where the drought has hit, it has hit uncommonly hard. Mr. Glickman said there was little precedent for the weather's extreme volatility in recent years, with severe dry spells and then torrential rain and floods. "That's what's unusual -- those intense weather patterns," he said.
Keith Collins, chief economist at the United States Department of Agriculture in Washington, saw serious effects on production of peanuts and cotton. In Alabama, which produces 10 percent of the nation's peanuts, growing conditions for 83 percent of the crop are poor, indicating sharply reduced harvests.
In Georgia, source of half the nation's peanuts, 28 percent of the crop has been caught in such conditions. In Texas, source of a third of the nation's cotton production, the department says 21 percent of the current crop has been struck.
Farmers in parched areas who rely on irrigation have been hit doubly hard, by the drought and the rising cost of oil to drive the irrigation systems. Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, said that in the state's southwestern corner, the cost of irrigating wheat has jumped from $100 an acre to $200.
On Wednesday Gov. Mike Johanns of Nebraska declared a state of emergency and sought aid for the most stricken counties.
Allen Dutcher, the state climatologist, says the drought began in the southeastern corner of the state in the middle of July last year. "It wasn't really until the month of September that we saw everyone in the state go dry," Mr. Dutcher said. "It was eight weeks before anyone got precipitation at all. Then it was dry again until February."
Nebraska wheat farmers depend on fall and spring rains to build up moisture in the soil. With no rain, farmers found themselves needing 25 inches of rain in a growing season that typically provides 18.
"The pastures didn't respond this spring," Mr. Dutcher said. "We didn't have the moisture for growth when it was cool, and the temperature skyrocketed in May. We had 100 degree readings."
"The next thing that went down was the wheat crop," he said. "Harvesting will begin this week, but our yields in a lot of places will be 50 percent or less. In the southeast, a lot of people are cutting the wheat for grazing, as supplemental cattle feed."
On Wednesday, the governor said he would allow farmers in 46 counties to harvest grass along state and federal roads to feed their animals.
"With the lack of moisture and the hot, dry winds, there's a lot of fear," said Merlyn Carlson, Nebraska's director of agriculture. "As streams decline, we may have to restrict irrigation."
Nebraska has 13 million acres in corn, sorghum and soy beans. And 55 percent to 60 percent of it is irrigated.
"Center-pivot irrigation has to run 24 hours a day," Mr. Dutcher said. "There's no moisture in the soil to rely on. Irrigators will not be able to keep up with crop water demands. "
Mr. Barry, who farms 1,500 acres of corn, soybeans and alfalfa, was operating water pumps on his farm today, but only for 60 acres. "The price of fuel makes watering corn that sells for $1.60 a bushel a waste of time," he said. "Without rain, we'll have to water for 60 days, and we'll lose $1 a bushel."
He has already moved his 160 cows, with their calves, to pastures where it rains, 280 miles away, at a cost of $2 a mile. As he drove away from his rock-hard alfalfa fields, which yielded only a fourth of their usual harvest this spring, he passed Conservation Reserve Program pastures, held in reserve for soil conservation and wildlife. Today the federal government released them for use by farmers who want to rent them for grazing.
"It's too late for us," Mr. Barry said. "I've moved my cattle. People south of Lincoln sold theirs two weeks ago."
Roadside haying, where farmers can pay to harvest hay along state and federal roads, will begin next Monday and "could help some," he said. "But there's bottles and cans and broke-off tree stumps. You ruin as much equipment as you make in hay."
Unless rain falls soon, southern Alabama could face the driest first half of a year in this century. Already, Alabama has been scorched by the worst drought since the 1950's with rainfall a foot below normal in some areas this year and two feet below over two years.
Gov. Donald Siegelman has declared a state of emergency in 19 of Alabama's 67 counties. Faye and Joe Williams raise corn, cotton, peanuts, grain sorghum for their cattle on 1,000 acres in Newton, in the heart of the drought in southeast Alabama.
In a normal year, the 5-foot, 3-inch tall Mrs. Williams could hide in her corn stalks. This year, she noted, "It's up to my waist." She added: "We didn't plant as much cotton as anticipated. We got all of our peanuts planted but about a third came up." She said the farm had two streams that had gone dry.
"Farming has got way out of balance too," she said. "Everything we have to buy is up, up, up but the prices are at a standstill level."
On his farm near Montezuma, Ga., Lynmore James cannot graze his cattle on barren pastures, and the earth is baked hard.
"You can't dig a hole" Mr. James said. "You can't get anything to scratch the surface."
"We could get the blues, but we try to keep in good spirits," he added. "We go to church and we meet and talk about our problems."
But there are signs of hope.
Much needed rain fell today in southern Alabama and the Florida Panhandle, but unless the thunderstorms continue for days or even weeks the rainfall will not be enough.
On June 7, the first real rain in months fell on Tampa, and people rushed outside to watch and to celebrate. Thunderstorms are forecast.
"I would think once the rainy season has begun, we might catch up slowly," said a cautious Eric Oglesby, a hydrologist for the National Weather Service at Ruskin, Fla.
In east Nebraska rain is spotty. It may rain an inch in Lincoln, as it did this week, and only a few drops will fall on Mr. Barry's farm.
"It's going to take a miracle to make a corn crop," he said. "Ten inches have to go into the ground in the next ten days. An inch isn't going to do us any good."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Extremely dry conditions and dozens of fires have plagued much of New Mexico in the past several weeks. Near the town of Magdalena, the main source of water for cattle was a puddle at the end of a highway culvert. (Matt Bernhardt for The New York Times); Dave Barry, a farmer-rancher in Valparaiso, Neb., knows trouble when he sees it, and this season, it is a dry pond, normally a good six feet deep, that used to provide water for his cattle. He has had to move his cows. (Lane Hickenbottom for The New York Times)(pg. A30)
 
Map/Chart: "Where the Drought Is"
Drought, severe in areas, is affecting the Midwest, South and Southeast.
 
Map shows drought conditions across the country as of June 13.
(Sources: National Drought Mitigation Center, NDAA)(pg. A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (57%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; LOUISIANA; TEXAS; GEORGIA; ALABAMA; NEBRASKA; SOUTHERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; DROUGHT; WATER; SHORTAGES; AGRICULTURE; LIVESTOCK DROUGHT (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); WEATHER (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); LAKES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); AGRICULTURE (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); WATER QUALITY (69%); FIRES (67%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, JO DAVE BARRY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



414 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
South Korean Leader Hails A New Era With the North
President Kim Dae Jung told jubilant South Koreans on his return from the Korean summit meeting in Pyongyang that "a new day is beginning" for the divided peoples. A1
 
Putin Criticizes Mogul's Arrest
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, visiting Berlin, said prosecutors went "too far" in jailing Vladimir A. Gusinsky, owner of Russia's largest independent media company. A3 

Mr. Putin, speaking to German business leaders, proposed that his country be placed at the heart of Europe's defenses against missile attack and warned that an American missile defense system would lead to a "very dangerous" arms race. A3
 
Serb Opposition Leader Shot
Vuk Draskovic, leader of the largest opposition party, was shot in the head by gunmen at his home in Montenegro, but the wounds were not serious and he was released from a hospital after treatment, an adviser said. A5
 
Arafat at White House
President Clinton met with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, to try to arrange a summit meeting with Israel, but an official said they did not resolve one important obstacle: Mr. Arafat's insistence that Israel proceed with the final withdrawal from West Bank land called for in the Oslo accords seven years ago. A6
 
Objections to Israeli Radar Sale
American diplomats met with Israeli military officials to reiterate objections to the sale of an airborne radar system to China and to press for consultations before Israel offers advanced weapons to other countries "of concern" to the United States. A6
 
Ethiopia-Eritrea Fighting Eased
Fighting between Ethiopian and Eritrean soldiers paused as ministers from both nations prepared to sign a preliminary cease-fire Sunday. A14
 
Diamonds, Drugs and War
A World Bank study concluded that armed rebels around the world were more often motivated by the pursuit of commodities, like diamonds and drugs, than by intangible goals. A14
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A22-30
 
Gore Replaces Chairman Of Presidential Campaign
Vice President Al Gore said Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, regarded as a shrewd operative in Democratic politics, would replace Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, Tony Coelho, who is hospitalized with an inflamed colon. Mr. Daley, a scion of the Chicago political family, will leave the cabinet on July 15. Though Mr. Coelho's departure was attributed to the advice of his doctors, many Democrats said the move was inevitable, given the way that Mr. Gore's campaign had been struggling. A1
 
Citing rising budget surplus estimates, Mr. Gore said he would offer Americans $500 billion in tax cuts over 10 years, twice what Mr. Gore had proposed and half of what his Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush had proposed. Gore aides said the tax cuts would primarily be limited to families with children and aging parents while Mr. Bush's would apply across the board. A27
 
Bush Plan for the Disabled
Gov. George W. Bush proposed an additional $880 million in federal spending and tax incentives over five years to help disabled Americans with work, public access and new technology. A28
 
No Doubt on Murder Testimony
Bernadine Skillern, the lone witness to identify Gary Graham as the killer in a Texas parking lot 19 years ago, came forward to repeat that she was certain that the right man had been convicted. Mr. Graham is to die on Thursday in a case that has drawn national attention and created a political headache for Gov. George W. Bush. A22
 
Appeal of Elian Ruling
Lawyers for the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez asked all 12 judges of the federal appeals court based in Atlanta to reverse a decision that would allow the boy's father to take him back to Cuba. A22
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Woods Holds Early Open Lead
Tiger Woods shot a six-under par 65 to take the opening-round lead of the United States Open at Pebble Beach, Calif. But fog suspended play before all players could finish. D1
 
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
Lazio's First Stock Options Paid a Handsome Return
Representative Rick A. Lazio's first foray into high-risk securities -- $2,300 for stock options on Quick & Reilly, a brokerage house, in August 1997 -- yielded $16,000 in less than two weeks, a nearly 600 percent gain, on word of a possible takeover. A spokesman said Mr. Lazio, who was in his third term at the time, bought shares in the company earlier and had simply made a shrewd bet. A1
 
More Arrests in Park Attacks
The police arrested six more men in the sex attacks in Central Park after the National Puerto Rican Day Parade on Sunday and identified more suspects in the frenzy of assaults that terrified parkgoers, embarrassed the city and prompted an internal police review. All told, eight men have been arrested in the assaults on dozens of women. A1
 
Patrick J. Buchanan, a Republican seeking the Reform Party nomination for president, suggested that "liberal cop-bashing" by Hillary Rodham Clinton and others had encouraged the park attacks. B4
 
Nile Virus Detected in Queens
City health officials said initial tests had shown that a chicken left in a coop in Corona, Queens, had been infected with the West Nile virus, and that if follow-up tests confirmed that finding, insecticide would be sprayed in the area next week. B1
 
Dispute Over Rent Rise
Tenants and landlords squared off at the Rent Guidelines Board's annual hearing over the city's proposal for the largest rent rise in four years. A final vote is set for Thursday. B3
 
WEEKEND E1-28; E29-44
 
OBITUARIES C21
 
Robert Trent Jones
The golf architect who designed or remodeled more than 500 courses, and who once shot a hole in one to justify a hole's redesign, was 93. C21
Robert J. Lurtsema
The host of the public radio classical music program "Morning Pro Musica," an announcer who was equally revered and reviled for his resonant timbre and slow, drawling delivery, was 68. C21
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20, 22
 
Ford Factory Most Efficient
A study found the Ford Taurus factory in Atlanta the most efficient car plant in North America last year, representing the first time that an American-owned auto plant surpassed Japanese-owned factories on the continent in labor productivity. C1
 
New Company for Murdoch
The News Corporation of Rupert Murdoch is preparing an S.E.C. filing to sell shares in a new company holding all the interests in satellite television that the company has been building up over the last decade. C1
 
Morgan Stanley Brokers' Chief
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter chose John Schaefer, 48, an investment banker, to run its brokerage operation, the country's second largest. C1
 
Broad Advance for Stocks
The Dow gained 26.87 points, to 10,714.82; the Nasdaq rose 48.33 points, to 3,845.74; and the S.& P. 500 edged up 8.19 points, to 1,478.73. C9
 
Antitrust Lawyer to Aid Napster
The Internet music company, fighting the recording industry over copyrights, hired David Boies, special counsel to the Justice Department in the Microsoft antitrust case. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: Reaching out to the uninsured; Mr. Putin and the plutocrats; Albany's task on guns and ballot access; pardon for the pope's attacker.
Columns: Gail Collins, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E42
TV Listings E27
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ERITREA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); NORWAY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK LAND CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ERITREA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); NORWAY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); RADAR SYSTEMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); CHILDREN (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); HEAD INJURIES (68%); PARENTS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); BUDGETS (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); AGING (50%); BUDGET FORECASTS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



415 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
WITH RATES UP, WACHOVIA ISSUES PROFIT WARNING

BYLINE: Bridge News 

 BODY:
The Wachovia Corporation, a Southeast regional bank, warned yesterday that it was unlikely to meet analyst expectations for the second quarter and for the year as rising interest rates cut into its income from loans and from its capital markets, mortgage and investment businesses. Wachovia shares plunged $13.125, almost 19 percent, to $57.0625, on the New York Stock Exchange. The company, based in Winston-Salem, N.C., said the shortfall could be attributed to "the dampening of activity in market-sensitive" businesses like capital markets, mortgages and investments. Wachovia also warned that it would increase its provision for future loan losses by $200 million. Wachovia did not disclose how much earnings would be reduced.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: WACHOVIA CORP WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WACHOVIA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PROFIT WARNINGS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



416 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Rent-Rise Plan Draws Emotional Debate

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
In an often-turbulent debate yesterday over New York City's proposal for the largest rent rise in four years, tenants demanded a freeze while landlords called for an even bigger increase. The two sides squared off at the Rent Guidelines Board's annual hearing, which lasted all day and into the night.
The board has proposed a 4 percent increase for one-year leases and 6 percent for two-year leases for the million apartments covered by rent-stabilization laws. Its final vote will come on Thursday. 
 Board officials repeatedly shouted for order as the tenant-dominated audience at Cooper Union burst into applause and cheers for its speakers and frequently jeered and booed landlord representatives. The lively crowd ebbed and flowed in size from a couple of dozen people to a few hundred.
"I'm running this meeting, not you, sir," the board's chairman, Edward S. Hochman, said as he reined in one advocate at the microphone.
Several tenants were removed for disrupting the hearings. The evening session was recessed for 15 minutes by a disruption when the police, who were ordered to remove one woman, ended up in a shoving and pulling match with several other people in the aisle. Four people, two men and two women, were arrested and charged with disorderly conduct.
The first to be ejected, in the afternoon, was a white-haired woman who got in the last words as police officers escorted her out. Turning her face back to the board, she said, "Shame on you!"
City Councilman Stephen DiBrienza got into a brief shouting match with the board as he sympathized with the renters' emotions. "I find shockingly offensive the level of police presence," he said, referring to the several officers in the auditorium. "These are tenants, not terrorists."
Strong feelings and vivid oratory are hallmarks of the rent hearings.
"I'm disabled, but I don't feel any different from any tenants, because all tenants in this city are disabled," Bill Hunter of Manhattan said.
Davidson Garrett, who lives in a single-room-occupancy hotel in Chelsea, told the nine-member board, "Our rooms are half the size of the table you're sitting at."
Pleading for the owners of small buildings, Jimmy Silber said, "These are the owners that provide the best housing in New York." He said that past rent increases had left those properties struggling. "The owners took it on the chin," he said. "Please do not punish the small-property owners."
The board's final vote usually follows its original recommendation. The authorized increases will cover leases renewed between Sept. 30, 2000, and Oct. 1, 2001.
For five of the last six years, the board has reflected the low-inflation era by adopting 2 percent rises for one-year leases and 4 percent for two-year leases. The exception, after a sharp rise in fuel oil prices, was 5 percent for one-year leases and 7 percent for two-year leases in 1996. The current surge in fuel oil prices is the major factor behind the pending rent increase.
"Many property owners still owe money for last year's fuel costs," said Jack Freund, executive vice president of the city's major landlord group, the Rent Stabilization Association. "They are deeply troubled how to pay the bills." He added that the proposed rent increase was not enough to cover projected fuel costs. "And every day, the price of oil heads higher and higher," Mr. Freund said.
Another landlord advocate, Dan Margulies, executive director of the Community Housing Improvement Program, complained that owners were also burdened by the costs of various added regulations on lead paint, facade inspections and fire safety.
But a tenant representative on the board, Jeffrey Coleman, argued that landlords had already benefited from past rent increases above their actual costs and that higher rents based on the last oil price increase were never rolled back after the prices dropped. Citing a staff study of city tax records, he said, "Landlord profits surged 11 percent last year."
Mr. Coleman added that "nothing takes into account the skyrocketing value of property" in the current real estate market. One tenant from Queens, Ida Pollack, said: "This is a show, a circus. I have been coming here for 20 years, and all I can say is bring in the clowns." At that point, however, there were still more than 100 speakers registered to speak.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Green, the public advocate, testifying before the Rent Guidelines Board, which has proposed the largest increases in four years. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION RENT CONTROL (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (75%); DEREGULATION (74%); ARRESTS (66%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); LAMBERT, BRUCE JACK FREUND (62%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); JEFFREY COLEMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



417 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: MAN IN THE NEWS;
A Son of Chicago -- William Michael Daley

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
To some, Commerce Secretary William M. Daley is as affable, self-effacing and disarmingly smooth as any top-drawer lobbyist in this town. To others, he is the perfect child of Chicago's gritty machine politics: brass-knuckles tough, vindictive and, at times, searingly blunt.
But there is broad agreement among those who know him that Mr. Daley is perhaps the best political mind in President Clinton's cabinet. And for that reason, many Democrats cheered the announcement today that Mr. Daley will be leaving the administration next month to become chairman of Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign. 
 "He is genetically prepared for this," said Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. "Politics is in his bloodstream."
Mr. Daley, the youngest son of Chicago's most famous mayor and the brother of its current one, inherits a campaign that has been described by some Democrats as adrift, dispirited and plagued by divisions. And while no one expects Mr. Daley to fix all the problems by himself, many Democrats say he brings the right mixture of tools to the task.
He is a centrist with strong ties to business leaders at a time when Mr. Gore is trying to position himself as a prudent manager of the economy. He is a consummate behind-the-curtains manager adept at avoiding the kind of controversy that has at times bedeviled the Gore campaign. And he is tough enough an in-fighter to enforce discipline on a campaign that has sometimes lacked it.
"You know there is a price to pay if you cross him," said Representative Robert Matsui, a California Democrat. "And that's extremely important in running a campaign."
Most recently, Mr. Daley, 51, has been a central figure in the administration's push to get Congress to give China permanent normal trade relations. Congressional and White House officials credit Mr. Daley not only with being one of the administration's best lobbyists on the China bill, but also its chief strategist. It was Mr. Daley who drew up the initial list of undecided Democrats to focus on. And it was Mr. Daley who had the best instincts about how to handle each one, the officials said.
"His instincts are such that he knows when to be exceedingly blunt, and when to be softer and gentler in tone," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative. "He is very affable and on a dime can become very steely."
Still, Mr. Daley's effective handling of the China bill did not sit well with leaders of organized labor, and Mr. Daley will have to move swiftly to smooth things over with Mr. Gore's union allies.
"There are some wounds out there in the labor community that need to be healed," said Representative Rod Blagojevich, a Chicago Democrat.
Though he has never run for office, Mr. Daley has had ample experience helping on the presidential campaigns of Walter F. Mondale, Michael S. Dukakis and Mr. Clinton. But it was at his father's feet, and in the mayoral campaigns of his brother, Richard, that Mr. Daley clearly learned his politics.
David Axelrod, a Democratic consultant from Chicago who has worked for the Daleys, tells a story about how Mr. Daley responded to a newspaper column by Mike Royko describing Mr. Daley and his brother, Richard, as "too dumb to tie their shoes."
Instead of hollering back, Mr. Daley called the columnist and said, "I just want you to know we're all wearing loafers now."
Similarly, Mr. Daley's brother, John, fondly describes how his younger sibling consistently escaped punishment at their Roman Catholic school, even though he was engaging in the same kinds of pranks as the other kids.
"He never got caught," said John, a Cook County commissioner. "You couldn't talk the Jesuits out of anything. He just knew how far to go. He was very smart."
But critics say Mr. Daley's suave exterior can hide a vindictive personality. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Chicago Democrat, said that Mr. Daley called his office and berated one of his aides after Mr. Gutierrez endorsed former Senator Bill Bradley for the Democratic nomination.
"To me, he's the kind of Machiavellian person behind the prince," Mr. Gutierrez said.
William Michael Daley was born on Aug. 9, 1948 in Chicago, where he stayed for all of his schooling: De La Salle High School, Loyola University and John Marshall Law School.
He was president and chief operating officer of the Amalgamated Bank of Chicago from 1990 to 1993, and has been a partner in one of Chicago's biggest law firms, Mayer, Brown & Platt.
In 1993, after Mr. Daley helped run the Clinton campaign in Illinois, the President tapped him to shepherd the North American Free Trade Agreement through Congress. And in 1996, Mr. Clinton chose him to replace Commerce Secretary Ronald Brown, who had died in a plane crash.
Mr. Daley and his wife, Loretta, have three children. The family still resides in Chicago, where Mr. Daley returns on weekends.
Today, both Democrats and Republicans who support the China bill lamented that he would not be there to push it through the Senate. But Democrats said they expect him to bring the efficiency to the campaign that his father brought to running Chicago.
"Bill has the best political gut of anyone I've ever known," said Mr. Axelrod, the Chicago consultant. "I think that is an inherited trait." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A Man in the News article on Friday about Commerce Secretary William M. Daley misidentified the Chicago high school that he attended. (The error also appeared in a profile of Mr. Daley on Dec. 14, 1996.) It was St. Ignatius High School, now called St. Ignatius College Prep, not De La Salle High School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WILLIAM M MERCER FRASER LTD (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (62%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; DALEY, WILLIAM M (SEC) AL GORE (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000



418 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Lehman Brothers' Profit Rises 15 Percent From Prior Year

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Despite a sharp slowdown in domestic stock and bond markets, Lehman Brothers Holdings reported yesterday that its fiscal second-quarter earnings rose 15 percent from a year earlier, though they were 33 percent lower than in the previous quarter.
Lehman, the fourth-biggest securities firm, said it had net income of $378 million in the quarter, up from $330 million in the corresponding period in 1999 but down from a record $541 million in the first quarter of 2000. On a diluted basis, its earnings were $2.78 a share, compared with $2.09 a year earlier and with analysts' lowered consensus estimate of $2.49 for the quarter. 
 Much of Lehman's gains came from stock trading at home and in Europe, where the firm has been building its investment banking and trading operations. Lehman derived 49 percent of its revenue from outside the United States in the quarter, up from 37 percent a year earlier, said David Goldfarb, its chief financial officer.
"We saw some extraordinary strength in trading profitability considering the market environment we were in," said Guy Moszkowski, a Salomon Smith Barney analyst. Mr. Moszkowski said Lehman's results boded well for two bigger competitors that are scheduled to report earnings next week, the Goldman Sachs Group and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
"The second quarter will turn out to have been quite strong really, considering the kind of market conditions we had," he said. But, he added, "I still think we're looking at a much weaker third quarter than we've seen."
Mr. Goldfarb said that the quarter had a split personality: for the first several weeks, starting in March, the stock markets were on a tear and investment banks were underwriting new stock issues as fast as they could. Then, after technology stocks took a dive in mid-April, business slowed markedly, though investors rushed to adjust their portfolios for the end -- at least temporarily -- of the run-up in technology stocks.
Throughout the quarter, concerns about rising interest rates bogged down the bond markets, the traditional source of most of Lehman's revenue. Of the $1.76 billion in revenue last quarter, only about 30 percent came from trading and underwriting bonds, Lehman said.
"If anybody still had a thought process that we're a fixed-income house, this should be a wake-up call that we're a diversified investment bank," Mr. Goldfarb said.
For the second consecutive quarter, Lehman spent about 52 cents of every dollar it took in on compensation and benefits for its 9,300 employees. Like other Wall Street firms, Lehman has had to increase pay and perks to retain and attract young investment bankers. Mr. Goldfarb said Lehman was also spending heavily on new technology and an Internet-based system for communicating and trading with clients.
The Internet proved treacherous for Lehman last week when the firm discovered that www.secinfo.com, a Web site for investors, was still publishing a long list of the firm's investments that had been filed erroneously with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In mid-May, Lehman sent a standard quarterly filing to the S.E.C. that was supposed to contain a list of its biggest stock holdings, totaling about $5 billion. Instead, it sent a much longer list of about $25 billion of positions, including currency contracts and stock options it had purchased as bets that certain stocks would either rise or fall.
Normally, big investors like Lehman closely guard such information out of fear that other investors will use it for their own trading purposes. Lehman thought it had erased the first filing when the S.E.C. deleted it and replaced it with a corrected one, but secinfo.com has a policy of providing all versions of such documents.
Last week, a Lehman lawyer asked the site's operators to remove the original filing. At first, they complied. But then, thinking like Wall Street traders, they reposted the document and asked Lehman to make them an offer to remove it. Lehman chose not to bid. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK DAVID GOLDFARB (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



419 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A China Unicom Offering Raises Almost $5 Billion

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 16

 BODY:
Capitalizing on the recent popularity of telecommunications stocks and the enduring appeal of the world's most populous country, China Unicom Ltd. raised $4.92 billion today in the largest initial public offering in Asia outside Japan.
The company, China's second-largest telephone carrier, priced its shares at 15.58 Hong Kong dollars each, or about $2. That is near the top of the range set by the company earlier this week. Unicom had already raised the range by 10 percent to account for the buoyant demand. 
 Executives close to Unicom said the institutional part of the offer, which accounts for most of the 2.46 billion shares, was subscribed more than five times over. Unicom priced its American depository shares at $19.99 a share. The shares will begin trading in New York next Wednesday and in Hong Kong the next day.
"Unicom is going to be very successful," said Seton Lor, a fund manager at Manulife Financial, an investment firm here. "Telecom stocks are very much in vogue these days. The stock is also priced at a lower multiple than China Telecom, because it has businesses other than cellular."
China Telecom, the nation's largest telephone carrier, held the record for the largest previous offering, raising $4.2 billion in late 1997. Unicom, which was started by the Chinese government in 1994 to create competition for Telecom, has languished in the shadow of its powerful rival.
It has less than one-third the mobile-phone subscribers: 4.15 million versus 15.6 million. It has had a revolving door of senior managers. It has zigzagged confusingly on cellular technology. It has been forced to unravel partnerships with foreign investors. And it derives 63 percent of its revenue from paging -- a service many experts regard as the horse and buggy of the Internet age.
Yet for all that, China Unicom now has its own page in the annals of China's corporate reform. Even people who faulted the company agree that it has bright prospects.
"Unicom has an enormous opportunity in front of it," said Hani Abuali, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in Hong Kong. "China is going to be the world's largest cellular market."
The number of cellular subscribers in China jumped from 13.7 million in 1997 to 43.2 million at the end of last year. That still represents a penetration rate of only 3.4 percent. China Unicom's executives note that the company's franchises, which extend up and down the country's economically prosperous coast, cover 67 percent of the total cellular subscribers in China.
Statistics like that have made China Telecom a shooting star on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Since May 24, its shares have risen more than 30 percent. That performance goaded Unicom's executives to raise the price range of their offering. Analysts say the timing was impeccable.
"From my discussions with fund managers, people are looking for alternative ways to invest in China," Mr. Abuali said. "This is a good alternative investment."
Unicom's success is also a good omen for other large Chinese state-owned companies, which the government hopes to begin privatizing in the coming months. These include the China National Offshore Oil Corporation and Sinopec, an oil and petrochemical giant.
China Unicom's offering is managed by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and the China International Capital Corporation, a Beijing-based investment bank partly owned by Morgan Stanley. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K3ID (SGX) (96%); CHU (NYSE) (96%); 0762 (HKSE) (96%); K3ED (SGX) (85%); CHA (NYSE) (85%); 0728 (HKSE) (85%); MFC (TSX) (56%); MFC (NYSE) (56%); 0945 (HKSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHINA UNICOM LTD CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LTD (96%); CHINA TELECOM CORP LTD (85%); MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINA UNICOM LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



420 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Industry and Nature Meet Along the Amazon;
A Codependent Rain Forest and Economy

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: MAUES, Brazil

 BODY:
For decades, this remote town overlooking the chocolate-colored waters of the Amazon River has been the main source of guarana, a bright-red, highly caffeinated berry that is believed by many Brazilians to be an aphrodisiac.
Inspired by a Romeo-and-Juliet-esque legend that guarana had originated from a tempestuous affair between two teenagers from rival Indian tribes, Brazilians have consumed guarana in a variety of forms: teas, tablets -- even soft drinks. 
 These days, guarana provides a clear example of the way many of the 20 million Brazilians living in the Amazon River Basin are seeking to harness the region's exotic flora and fauna to promote economic development.
"What better product to represent the Amazon than a natural stimulant that is harvested without harming the environment?" said Valmir Ferrari, an agronomist with Companhia de Bebidas das Americas, a Brazilian beverage company planning to export a guarana soft drink to rich industrialized nations in a venture with PepsiCo. "This could be bigger than Viagra."
While the libido-enhancing effects of guarana may have more to do with fiction than fact, it is no small wonder that products from the Amazon, a region that has long gripped popular imagination as the world's largest rain forest, are being viewed as a way for the region to develop without harming the environment at a time when other forces are threatening to speed its depletion.
Several huge road projects are under way to link the Amazon with other parts of Brazil and are apt to increase migration to the region. The expected increase in commerce resulting from better integration with the rest of the country is expected to increase pressure on an already precarious infrastructure, according to a report recently released by groups including the World Wildlife Fund.
And traditional threats to the Amazon, like cattle ranching, timber cutting and wide-scale soybean farming, continue to loom large. According to a separate report issued by Brazil's environment ministry, an area of 6,347 square miles of rain forest, roughly the size of the state of Hawaii, was destroyed last year as a result of such activities.
So it is no surprise that some of the Amazon's business and political interests have begun to carry the flag of environmentally friendly economic development projects. According to Joao Capiberibe, the governor of Amapa, one of the nine states making up the Brazilian Amazon, it is a question of economic survival.
"The global economy we are becoming part of is one in which diversity produces riches," said Mr. Capiberibe, whose government is viewed as a pioneer after prohibiting wood cutting and soybean farming. To replace these activities, Amapa is supporting the production of organically harvested hearts-of-palm and oil from cashew nuts.
There are similar efforts taking place in other Amazonian states. One of the most commercially promising sustainable development projects is under way on tracts of land where the rain forest was already razed to make way for activities like ranching in Para, a state neighboring Amapa.
There, a company called AgroPalma is using the region's ample humidity and sunlight to grow African oil palm trees to produce palm oil, which is used as a cooking oil in the cuisine of northeastern Brazil and by food processors to make products like margarine and shortening.
AgroPalma hopes to make Brazil a contender in the palm oil industry, allowing the country to compete with Malaysia, the leading producer, and other Asian nations. One of the company's main selling points is the view that the palm oil business is an agricultural activity that does not harm the rain forest.
"We defend the rational exploitation of the environment," said Harald Brunckhorst, executive director of AgroPalma, which is backed by Aloizio Faria, one of Brazil's most prominent financiers. "Palm trees take so well on land that has been degraded by other types of farming or ranching so we don't have to clear new lands to cultivate."
Additionally, the company is eyeing the potential of the organic food market by seeking to increase ecologically certified production. For instance, AgroPalma is reducing the use of pesticides by using natural biocontrol agents from the rain forest to combat plant diseases transmitted by insects, like spear rot.
"Our organic production is 10 percent and growing," Mr. Brunckhorst said. "It is the best way to gain market share in the first world."
Because the palm oil business is labor-intensive, its advocates also claim that it is a viable alternative to economic activities like gold mining, which pollutes water sources in the Amazon through miners' use of mercury. And jobs on palm oil plantations operated by AgroPalma and other companies could alleviate migration to large Amazonian cities like Manaus and Belem.
"Any economic project in the Amazon is useless if it does not take into account people's livelihood in addition to the environmental impact," said Eduardo Morales, director for the eastern Amazon region at Embrapa, the government's agricultural research institute. "The rain forest cannot be preserved if the people living in it cannot feed and school their children."
While palm oil is one of the few environmentally sound products from the Amazon that have large-scale corporate potential -- AgroPalma's clients include companies like Frito-Lay -- there are several companies and small cooperatives that are selling exotic products with tongue-twisting names like cupuacu, a fruit used to make juices and chocolate, or pirarucu, a freshwater fish that can grow to be nearly nine feet long.
"The quickest way for an Amazonian to get some control over his economic destiny is to get involved in small-scale sustainable-development projects," said Moacyr Bittencourt, the program officer for marketing natural products in Brazil for the World Wildlife Fund.
That group is involved in projects to sell sandals made from rubber collected by rubber tappers in the western state of Acre, which was home to the rain forest advocate Chico Mendes before his murder in 1988, in addition to a reforestation project in the state of Amapa to help people there break into the market for aromatic timber like rosewood.
For any of these projects to succeed, their directors might benefit from studying previous efforts to develop businesses in the Amazon. The region, larger than Western Europe, has a spectacular history of failures to establish viable enterprises.
In the center of Manaus, the region's largest city and one that is a 16-hour boat ride from Maues, an ornate turn-of-the-century opera house and a few European-style buildings are all that remain of the Amazon boom of a century ago from rubber production. Competition from Asian rubber producers eventually wiped out the wealth of Manaus, leaving behind these symbols.
Or there is Fordlandia, a far-flung American-style outpost in the state of Para established by Henry Ford in the 1920's to produce carnauba wax, used in the production of rubber. All that remains of Fordlandia, which halted production at the end of World War II, are a few buildings and a church. Cattle graze on what was once a golf course.
More recently, Daniel Ludwig, an American shipping magnate, invested nearly $1 billion in a project to produce cellulose and other products on a Connecticut-sized property near the border of the states of Para and Amapa, only to have the debt-ridden enterprise fall into disarray.
If there is any company that is intent on avoiding the fate of these ventures it is AmBev, the company planning to export a guarana drink with Pepsi. It already has Pepsi's experience to learn from, since Pepsi, based in Purchase, N.Y., stopped making a guarana drink called Josta shortly after introducing it in 1996.
In five years, AmBev hopes to capture 1 percent of the $70 billion global soft drink market with its Antarctica Guarana brand, labeled a "Rain Forest Original" on bright green cans and bottles.
Although AmBev's installations in Maues are impressive, including a well-kept guarana plantation on the town's outskirts and a research center in the town, it is clear that the guarana used to produce AmBev's soft drinks is only a minuscule part of the process.
While AmBev does not disclose the secret formula of its guarana drink, it acknowledges that the percentage of the berry in the mixture is kept to a minute level so children can consume it without getting too much stimulation. After all, guarana has three times as much caffeine as coffee.
"Our aim is to capitalize on the allure the Amazonian rain forest has in the imagination of the entire world," said Victorio de Marchi, co-president of AmBev. "How to convey this is probably more a job for our marketing people than it is for our researchers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Guarana berries, harvested in Maues, below, are used for a variety of beverages, including soft drinks, above left. (Photographs by Luiz Carlos Murauskas/Folha Imagem, bottom; Reuters, top.)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Rain Forest Caffeine"
One of Brazil's most popular drinks, the highly caffeinated guarana, may soon be exported from the Amazon, where the guarana berry is harvested with little harm to the environment.
(Sources: AC Nielsen; Dow Jones)(pg. C1)
 
Map of Brazil shows location of Maues: Berries grown around Maues may help Brazil's rain forest survive. (pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: AMAZON RIVER (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMPANHIA DE BEBIDAS DAS AMERICAS; PEPSICO INC; AGROPALMA PEPSICO INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPANHIA DE BEBIDAS DAS AMERICAS; PEPSICO INC; AGROPALMA

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; AMAZON RIVER BASIN; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); AMAZON RIVER (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALM OIL; SOFT DRINKS; GUARANA (BERRY); SOFT DRINKS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CASHEWS; NUTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RIVERS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (75%); BEVERAGE MFG (75%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); MAMMALS (74%); WILDLIFE (74%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (73%); AGRONOMY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); TRENDS (72%); ANIMALS (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



421 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Senate Unanimously Passes Electronic-Signature Bill
The Senate voted unanimously to approve a bill that catapults electronic commerce to a new level by allowing consumers and businesses to sign contracts online and know that their e-signature is just as binding as one in ink. The bill has been passed by the House and now goes to President Clinton, who said that he would sign it into law. 
 By giving electronic signatures the legal weight of paper signatures, the law would offer consumers the chance to sign legally enforceable contracts for health insurance, bank loans and brokerage accounts over the Internet. But certain legal documents will still have to be produced on paper. For example, insurance and utility companies must send cancellation and termination notices through the mail, wills cannot be executed over the Internet and products may not be recalled online. Page A1.
 
Bank Stocks Send Dow Down 2.5%
Blue-chip stocks fell, led by financial issues, as two banks warned that higher interest rates would reduce profits. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 265.52 points, or 2.5 percent, to 10,449.30. The Nasdaq composite index gained 14.82 points, to 3,860.54, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 14.27 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 1,464.46. C3.
 
Another Profit Warning From Xerox
Facing strong competition in its highest-margin product lines, problems collecting accounts in Mexico and upheaval in its sales force, Xerox warned that its second-quarter earnings would be as much as 12 cents below expectations of 42 cents a share. C3.
 
Microsoft Confronts Rivals' Tactics
Microsoft accused its rivals of masterminding an attempt to buy the trash generated by a Microsoft-backed lobbying organization, apparently hoping it would yield valuable information about the company. The accusation came as the Justice Department filed still another brief in the antitrust case against the company. It countered a Microsoft brief filed Thursday that tried to undermine the government's effort to send the company's appeal in the case directly to the Supreme Court. C4.
 
Net Income Climbs 15% at Lehman
Despite a sharp slowdown in domestic stock and bond markets, Lehman Brothers Holdings reported that its profits rose 15 percent, to $378 million, or $2.78 a diluted share, up from $330 million, or $2.09 a share. C4.
 
China Unicom Raises $4.9 Billion
Capitalizing on the recent popularity of telecommunications stocks and the enduring appeal of the world's most populous country, China Unicom, China's second-largest telephone carrier, raised $4.92 billion in the largest initial public offering in Asia outside Japan. C2.
 
T.W.A. and AirTran Holding Talks
Shares of Trans World Airlines and AirTran Holdings rose on reports that they were holding merger discussions. But people close to the talks said that there was little chance of a deal. Shares of T.W.A. rose 31.25 cents, to $2.875, while AirTran shares jumped 25 cents, to $4.5625. T.W.A. would not confirm that it was in negotiations. C14.
 
CDC Asset in $700 Million Deal
The investment management company Nvest agreed to be acquired by CDC Asset Management for $40 a share, or $700 million. CDC will also assume $1.5 billion of debt. CDC is the investment management arm of Caisse des Depots of France. C3.
 
Dresdner Renews Efforts to Merge
Two months after it broke off merger talks with a larger rival, Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank has held preliminary discussions with Commerzbank, Germany's fourth-largest private bank. Both banks are under pressure to consolidate and reduce costs. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,449.30 down 265.52
Nasdaq composite -- 3,860.56 up 14.82
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.87% down 0.05
The euro -- $0.9649 up 0.0114
The dollar -- 106.31 yen down 0.28
 
Graph tracks the Dow Industrials average since ????????.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); K3ID (SGX) (51%); CHU (NYSE) (51%); 0762 (HKSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (79%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (69%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); ASIA (72%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DIGITAL SIGNATURES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); AIRLINES (83%); LOBBYING (79%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BONDS (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); BOND MARKETS (62%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



422 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Fall 3.9%

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON,June 16

 BODY:
Starts on new housing construction tumbled 3.9 percent in May, the Commerce Department reported today, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.592 million units compared with a revised 1.656 million in April. Analysts had expected a 2.6 percent decline. Starts in May were the weakest since the 1.562 million reported last June, when the Federal Reserve put in place the first of six interest-rate increases aimed at curbing the pace of expansion to keep inflation in check. Building permit applications dropped 4.3 percent in May, to an annual rate of 1.492 million. That was the lowest level since December 1997. Fed policy makers meet again on June 27-28 to set interest rate strategy as indications mount that key rate-sensitive sectors of the economy like housing are losing some of their zip. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



423 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: A Cease-Fire Takes Hold in Korean Propaganda War

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 16

 BODY:
The propaganda war in the DMZ fell silent today for the first time in at least 50 years, and President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea could be heard declaring that "the danger of war on the Korean peninsula has disappeared."
Just a day after talks between North and South Korea ended in Pyongyang, the South ordered an end to anti-Communist broadcasts that its military had transmitted for decades from giant loudspeakers along the heavily fortified border with North Korea. 
 The order was issued in response to North Korea's decision on Tuesday to switch off its loudspeakers, which had blared anti-South insults over the demilitarized zone through the years.
The end to the broadcasts was one of several steps the two nations have taken to signal that the half-century of hostilities on the divided peninsula are indeed coming to an end. They were also hoping to dispel critics who had questioned whether a broad agreement reached at the recent summit meeting between President Kim and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Jong Il, would actually lead to specific actions toward peace.
For its part today, North Korea allowed a South Korean fishing boat that had strayed across its heavily patrolled sea border to sail back to its home port without incident.
This was in marked contrast to the situation a year ago this week, when North and South Korean naval vessels exchanged gunfire over fishing rights in the same area. One North Korean warship sank, and about 30 Communist sailors were believed to have died.
Also today, South Korea's Defense Ministry announced that it would reconsider a $40 million program to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean War on June 25, 1950.
The agency had planned numerous parades, ceremonies, battle re-enactments and other events that were to be attended by thousands of veterans and dignitaries, many from the United States.
"We are looking for ways to commemorate the anniversary in compliance with the spirit of the agreement reached at the summit," a ministry spokesman, Yoon Il Young, said.
And Kim Dae Jung told his cabinet today that Kim Jong Il had agreed to his suggestion to invite Pope John Paul II to visit North Korea.
"Chairman Kim asked the pope's age and told me to tell the pope to come to North Korea," President Kim said while meeting with the cabinet, according to his aides.
The South Korean president, who is a Roman Catholic and visited the pope in March, said he had instructed the Foreign Ministry to convey the wishes of his North Korean counterpart to the Vatican.
It was while he was meeting with the cabinet that President Kim said that the danger of war had passed. "The summit opened a new chapter for national unification," he said.
North Korea is widely considered to be the world's most totalitarian society, and organized religion there has long been suppressed in favor of leader-worship, first for the country's founder, Kim Il Sung, and now for his son, Kim Jong Il. Of a population of 22 million, 4,000 are believed to be Catholics.
In addition to today's actions, Kim Dae Jung instructed his cabinet to carry out a wide variety of reconciliation measures growing out of the three-day talks, which concluded in an agreement calling for the two Koreas to pursue peace, economic and other exchanges, including family visits.
The South Korean president said that he hoped the efforts would coax North Korea out of its self-imposed isolation and help rebuild its faltering economy.
South Korean officials said they hoped that the two heads of state could meet again in Seoul on or around the Aug. 15 holiday that celebrates the anniversary of Korea's liberation from nearly 40 years of Japanese colonial rule.
The South Korean president also said that he had a 20-minute telephone conversation with President Clinton today in which he informed the American leader that he raised North Korea's nuclear and missile programs in talks with Kim Jong Il.
"I told him that the missile and nuclear problems do not help regional and world peace as well as inter-Korean cooperation," aides to the Korean president quoted him as having told Mr. Clinton.
The presence of 37,000 American troops in South Korea was also discussed, Kim Dae Jung told Mr. Clinton.
The South Korean leader's position is that the United States military presence is needed for regional security even after the unification of the Korean peninsula. The aides said that Mr. Clinton thanked Kim Dae Jung for raising the North's nuclear and missile issues, saying that "those issues are important for all of us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: South Koreans waited at a government building in Seoul yesterday to apply to visit family members in the North. An agreement signed on Thursday by the leaders of North and South Korea called for such visits. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (66%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (66%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; PROPAGANDA TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); KOREAN WAR (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); RELIGION (65%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN KIM JONG IL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



424 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs;
In an Islamic nation strained by many tensions, Indonesia's president is a champion of pluralism.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
Among religious leaders, President Abdurrahman Wahid of Indonesia stands out, but not simply because he has repeatedly called for a respectful dialogue among faiths and has decried any appeal to religion as a justification for violence.
To be sure, Mr. Wahid, who is Muslim, said those things again last Tuesday at two gatherings in New York, one under the auspices of the World Conference on Religion and Peace, and the other at the United Nations under the auspices of the Unification Church. 
 Many other religious leaders, including the Dalai Lama and the pope, have said much the same, although their pronouncements have often been ignored, most tragically, by many of their followers.
But as head of a nation strained by political, economic, ethnic and religious tensions, Mr. Wahid is virtually the only religious leader who directly confronts the challenge of translating such convictions into policy.
In a brief interview, the 59-year-old president was able to convey both his commitment to religious peacemaking and the obstacles he faced in meeting that commitment.
In Indonesia, Mr. Wahid's stature as a religious figure and an intellectual preceded his political ascendancy. Put simply, in a nation with the world's largest Islamic population, he headed the world's largest Islamic organization.
That organization, Nahdlatul Ulama, was founded in 1926 by Muslim leaders that included his grandfather, an Islamic scholar. It was meant to be a bulwark of the "pesantren," traditional rural schools that teach the Koran and other Arabic religious texts, against urban Muslim modernizers who were establishing schools that put more emphasis on secular learning, ethics and individual freedom in interpreting sacred texts. Today, Nahdlatul Ulama links 7,000 pesantren and claims more than 30 million members.
Westerners might wonder how such a background could produce a leader like Mr. Wahid, a champion of pluralism, a defender of minorities, a believer in the separation of mosque and state, a sympathizer with Israel, an advocate of women's rights, a man seemingly free of hostility toward modernization and the West and convinced that many core values of post-Enlightenment liberalism are compatible with Islam.
How did traditionalism produce a man who not only knows the Koran by heart but also, according to David Lamb of The Los Angeles Times, travels with a Sony Walkman listening to Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and Janis Joplin's "Me and Bobby McGee"?
Part of the explanation lies in Indonesia's Islam. Succeeding an earlier mix of Hindu and Buddhist religiosity and co-existing with local folk beliefs, Indonesian Islam seems to have inherited at least a few genes for live-and-let-live pluralism.
But the explanation is also familial and personal. Mr. Wahid's father and grandfather were religious leaders and national heroes in Indonesia's struggle for independence. Though steeped in traditional Islam, the family environment was also polyglot and cosmopolitan.
Mr. Wahid became a voracious reader, taking in not only Western political philosophy and social theory but also the great Russian and French novels.
After Mr. Wahid's father died in an automobile accident, the son took on the mantle of religious leadership. His studies in Islam and Arabic literature took him from the Javanese pesantren to Al Azhar University in Cairo and to Baghdad. At the same time, he pursued soccer, French films, discussions about Jewish mysticism and always his wide-ranging reading with at least equal diligence.
No one has delved into this background more than Greg Barton, who teaches comparative religion and Asian studies at Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia. Professor Barton, who is completing an authorized biography of Mr. Wahid, also sheds light on the Indonesian leader's personality and idiosyncrasies.
Mr. Wahid's spontaneity, playfulness and zest for life seem to contradict the seriousness expected of a religious scholar and leader. He is known for irreverent, even earthy, humor and for puncturing pretentiousness. It is a manner that recalls a number of Asian spiritual leaders.
By many accounts, there has been a seemingly erratic, unpredictable character to Mr. Wahid's conduct. At times he has been cautious, at other times outspoken, sometimes fearless, sometimes compromising. And his shortcomings in day-to-day management, exacerbated by his near blindness, are well known.
But his apparent bumbling and inconsistency cloak an instinctual canniness, said Professor Barton, who compared Mr. Wahid to Semar, a clowning character in the shadow puppet plays that are basic to Javanese culture. Semar plays the buffoon but turns out to be the smartest character in the plays' pantheon, the one who has the last laugh.
Whether Mr. Wahid will have the last laugh remains to be seen. It is certainly a formidable one, leading a nation of thousands of islands, hundreds of languages and scores of ethnicities from authoritarianism to democracy while weathering an economic crisis.
If he succeeds, his success will have a great deal to do with his roots, so deep in Indonesia's Islam that they have allowed him to encounter democracy and modernization confidently.
Whether he succeeds or not, Mr. Wahid has already challenged what Professor Barton has described as the secular and "typically post-modern" misconception that "it's only by abandoning all claims to metaphysical or absolute truth that one can be genuinely tolerant and pluralist." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); ETHICS (73%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); WOMEN (69%); RURAL SCHOOLS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: WAHID, ABDURRAHMAN (PRES); STEINFELS, PETER DALAI LAMA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



425 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Putin Discovers A New Rapport With Germany

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 16

 BODY:
"What do you want us to say," President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia asked today after his fourth meeting in three days with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, "that we're in love?"
He was joking, of course. But there was no mistake that the summit meeting that ended today produced a vigorous rapprochement between Russia and Germany. Mr. Putin seemed entirely serious when he added, "Germany is Russia's leading partner in Europe and the world." 
 The meeting led to agreements on German investments in Russia worth $1.7 billion, cautious German backing for a Russian plan to involve itself in the defense of Europe against missile attack, and the establishment of an apparently excellent rapport between Mr. Putin and Mr. Schroder.
"They are two cool cookies, and they took to each other," said one Foreign Ministry official who attended several of the meetings. "Theirs is not the old bear-hugging style" of the former leaders, Boris N. Yeltsin and Helmut Kohl, "but they see eye-to-eye and they get along."
This easy understanding stands in marked contrast to the sometimes awkward relationship between Mr. Schroder and President Clinton. But the official added: "There is no equidistance in the German-Russian and German-American relationships. We are intimate with the United States; with Russia we are still trying to create a benign and stable power to the east."
Still, the sudden closeness of Berlin and Moscow is certain to cause some concern among Germany's European partners, always worried that Europe's central power may again seek its fortunes to the east.
Michael Steiner, the chief diplomatic adviser to Mr. Schroder, insisted several times today that Germany was acting for Europe in seeking a "strategic partnership" with Mr. Putin's Russia.
A senior American official said that the Clinton administration favored all efforts to draw Russia closer to the West, adding that he doubted that room existed for Russia to drive a wedge between the United States and its European allies.
But in many respects, Germany appeared closer to Russia than to the United States on the question of missile defense. Mr. Schroder said today that a proposal by Mr. Putin to place Russia at the heart of a European missile defense system from the Atlantic to the Urals "deserves thorough consideration and should be discussed both in the NATO-Russia Council and through bilateral relations."
The chancellor has been much cooler on the American proposal for a national missile defense system. He has warned that it must not be allowed to lead to a new arms race or undo existing agreements, including the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972, which Mr. Clinton wants Russia to agree to amend.
Russia is proposing the use of "theater" antimissile systems allowed under the 1972 treaty to shoot down short- and medium-range missiles that threaten Europe. The United States is deeply skeptical of both the feasibility and the desirability of the idea.
Mr. Schroder showed little such skepticism. "We agree on the necessity of political measures with regard to arms control in order to preserve the Antiballistic Missile Treaty," he said.
In practice, German officials privately hope that Mr. Clinton will make no decision on the national missile defense system in the remaining months of the presidency. They say a decision would only put Mr. Putin in a corner and provoke what one called an "unnecessary crisis with the alliance partners."
Mr. Putin, who speaks good German as a result of his five years in East Germany as a K.G.B. spy, said today that a "united Europe" should join a body set up by Russia and the United States to monitor missile launches around the world and provide an early warning system.
Much of the talks were devoted to economic issues. Germany is Russia's largest creditor, and Mr. Putin is looking to German companies to invest heavily in his country and to provide access to industrial technology. He spent much of his time here -- described as a "charm offensive" by one official -- trying to convince executives that Russia could prove a reliable marketplace governed by the rule of law.
The mission was partially successful. Wintershall, a German gas company, agreed to invest about $1 billion in a joint development of an offshore oilfield in the Arctic north with Russia's state-controlled gas company, Gazprom.
Other investments worth more than $700 million were signed by three other German companies with Gazprom, and Mr. Schroder said about $500 million in new export credits should soon be available.
But little progress was made on a debt-restructuring deal. Russia has been looking for some forgiveness of its large debt, but Germany has made clear this is impossible. "We have told them, we are not going to treat them like Angola," said one official. "Russia is a potentially rich country."
Differences over debt were not allowed to cloud the meeting. The two leaders strolled together through the Brandenburg Gate to symbolize the healing of history's wounds in a city battered by Soviet troops when they took Berlin in 1945 and then long divided as the eastern half fell into the former Soviet empire.
Mr. Schroder said that he and his wife, Doris, had accepted an invitation to spend Christmas with the Putins in a Kremlin that is to be equipped with a new hot line to the Berlin Chancellery.
"We have agreed to breathe new life into our relationship," the chancellor added. "That should not be negative for anyone -- not for our European partners and certainly not for our American friends. When relations are good with Russia, that is good for Europe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin, left, and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder at a news conference in Berlin yesterday. "They see eye-to-eye and they get along," said one official who attended several of the leaders' talks. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; RUSSIA; EUROPE; GERMANY (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (72%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); ARMS RACE (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%); 

PERSON: PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); COHEN, ROGER VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); GERHARD SCHRODER (91%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



426 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: On Campus, Diversity or Unity?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I have witnessed Arthur Levine's observation regarding the segregated conditions at institutions of higher education (Op-Ed, June 11). Paradoxically, this is happening as increasingly diverse populations enter.
Just last September, while I was instructing a class, one student felt "safe" enough to describe how she was a target for failure. I asked her what she meant by that. She replied, "I know that you want to fail me . . . everybody here wants me to fail." Amazed by her comments and her honesty, I asked where she had come to know this. "My advisers (a unit in the university for economically disadvantaged students) told me." 
 This experience is unique only because it became part of a public conversation. Privately, enclaves of culture are at war with one another.
 
W. KING MOTT JR.
Dean of Freshman Studies
Seton Hall University
South Orange, N.J., June 12, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (88%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: MOTT, W KING JR (DEAN); LEVINE, ARTHUR SETON HALL (81%); ARTHUR LEVINE (60%); OP-ED JUNE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



427 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AMERICAS;
MILD CANADIAN INFLATION

BYLINE: By Timothy Pritchard 

 BODY:
Canada's inflation rate rose slightly in May to an annual rate of 2.4 percent, up from 2.1 percent in April, but comfortably below the 3 percent pace in March. The latest increase in the Consumer Price Index was less than economists had predicted and was again pushed higher mainly by the cost of gasoline. Excluding energy, core inflation in May was 1.3 percent. The modest pace suggests further interest rate increases by the Bank of Canada will only match those imposed by the Federal Reserve Board in the United States.
 Timothy Pritchard 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CANADA (65%); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (88%); TRENDS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); GASOLINE (84%); GASOLINE PRICES (84%); 

PERSON: PRITCHARD, TIMOTHY TIMOTHY PRITCHARD (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000



428 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Approves Bell Atlantic-GTE Merger, Creating No. 1 Phone Company

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission approved the proposed merger of the Bell Atlantic Corporation and the GTE Corporation today, clearing the final obstacle to the creation of the nation's largest telephone company.
 
The new company, which will be called Verizon once the deal is closed later this month, will control a third of the nation's local telephone market, some 63 million local lines, plus 25 million cell phone customers, in 40 states. It is the latest in a series of mergers and acquisitons that have put the nation's telephone and high-speed Internet system in the hands of a few huge corporations that are planning to offer consumers a variety of services from cable television to cell phone and local and long-distance calling.
 Federal regulators say they have approved every deal in the frenzied consolidation of the industry in the hopes that a few telecommunications giants would have the capital and expertise to quickly roll out new technoloiges like high-speed Internet service at affordable prices for consumers.
 But consumer groups have raised concerns that the domination of the industry by a handful of colossal companies may ultimately prove costly to consumers and discourage the kind of innovation and price wars that accompany robust competition.
 "There will be those that will claim this merger brings us closer to a re-emergence of Ma Bell," said William E. Kennard, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. "However, my support is predicated on the applicants' enforceable commitments to open traditional local markets to competitors, invest in new markets to competitors, invest in new markets and accelerate deployment of broadband technologies. The end result should produce more competition not less."
 Executives of Bell Atlantic, which dominates the local markets in 13 states from Maine to West Virginia, and GTE, which has operations all over the country, vowed today that, for their current customers, the conditions imposed on the company will yield economies of scale and lower prices, permitting Verizon to offer packages of services - wireless and wired telephone service as well as high-speed Internet - on one bill. Government officials also said that the deal would promote competition both inside and outside of the markets dominated by Bell Atlantic.
 "The F.C.C. recognizes that this merger uniquely combines complementary assets that will generate enormous public interest benefits," and Ivan G. Seidenberg, chairman and chief executive of Bell Atlantic "We look forward to creating the next great brand in communications, one that will set the standard for global communications companies."
 But disputing the government and companies, consumer groups warned that the deal, along with other telecommunications mergers, would dampen competition in a field in which many customers already face few choices, higher prices for some services and largely unregulated monopolies. They noted that as a result of this latest deal two companies, Verizon and SBC Communications Inc., would not control 69 percent of the nation's telephone lines.
 "Instead of being positioned to compete against each other, six of the eight equal-sized local telephone monopolies have been consolidated into two superregional fortress monopolies, Bell Atlantic and SBC," said Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union. "They are virtually insulated from a broad-based competitive threat. With telephone companies merging rather than competing, and cable companies expanding their dominance over television into new high-speed interactive Internet services, the law will not deliver on its promise of broad-based competition and lower prices for consumers."
 The approval of the two-year-old deal had been expected for months, but was delayed as regulators and lawyers for the companies struggled over the issue of permitting the consolidation of a local telephone company, Bell Atlantic, with GTE, which has a huge long-distance Internet business, Genuity. Federal regulations restrict the local company from entering the long-distance business.
 The difficulty was that the companies had hoped to keep control of as much as possible of Genuity, a fast-growing Internet business, while government officials and rivals said that such control by the nation's largest local telephone carrier would violate the law. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 provides that a regional Bell company may offer long-distance service only when its local market is sufficiently competitive, a test that Bell Atlantic has satisfied only in New York.
 Because of that obstacle, the F.C.C. rejected a series of proposals by the companies that government officials concluded would have given Verizon too much control in Genuity.
 Under the plan that was ultimately approved, Verizon will shortly spin off most of its interest in Genuity in a public stock offering, keeping a 9.5 percent interest. Should Verizon manage to open its local telephone markets within the next five years, it would be able to exercise an option to control 80 percent of Genuity.
 "In our view, the sticking point was that we wanted a path back to this asset," Mr. Seidenberg said in a teleconference with reporters this afternoon. "The F.C.C.'s interest was sufficient divestiture of control. The commission did what it had to do, and we did what we had to do, and that's how we got to where we are."
Rivals including AT&T and smaller competitors had sought through months of lobbying to block the merger, and federal officials say they would not be surprised if one of the rivals filed a lawsuit seeking to block the deal.
 AT&T, which on Thursday completed its $44 billion acquisition of MediaOne to become the nation's largest cable company, issued a statement tonight that it would review the F.C.C. order before deciding whether to take further action.
 Under the order, Verizon will be able to demonstrate that its markets are sufficiently open when it is qualified to offer long-distance service in the 12 remaining states where it is now barred from offering such service.
 Mr. Seidenberg said that Verizon planned to seek permision soon to enter the long-distance business in Massachusetts and New Jersey, and Pennsylvania after that. He said the company hoped to be in a position to seek approval to offer long distance in Maryland and Virginia by the middle of next year.
 In an effort to promote competition in other regions of the country, the F.C.C. ordered Verizon to enter new markets within three years. If the company fails to meet certain benchmarks, the F.C.C. may penalize the company by the requiring payments to the United States Treasury of up to $750 million.
 Antitrust officials at the Justice Department approved the proposed merger last year after the companies agreed to sell one of their two interests in overlapping wireless phone systems in nine states. The divestitures included holdings in Chicago, Houston, Richmond and Tampa, Fla.
 Bell Atlantic emerged from the breakup of the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1984 as the local phone monopoly for the mid-Atlantic states. Shortly after the deregulation of the telecommunications industry in 1996, Bell Atlantic acquired the Nynex Corporation, which served most of the region between New York and Maine.
 The GTE brand has its genesis in 1935, with the organization of General Telephone and Electric, and two decades later, it shortened its name to GTE. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (98%); VZ (NYSE) (98%); T (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; BELL ATLANTIC CORP; GTE CORP; VERIZON CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (98%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (92%); AT&T INC (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; BELL ATLANTIC CORP; GTE CORP; VERIZON CORP FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); BROADBAND (90%); MERGERS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN IVAN SEIDENBERG (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



429 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: June 18, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Dell, $7.99.) Seven years after his escape, the fiendish psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	WHILE I WAS GONE, by Sue Miller. (Ballantine, $12.95.) A small-town veterinarian, the wife of a minister, begins a flirtation with an old friend from her bohemian past.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	1	IRISH HEARTS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.50.) Two previously published novels, now in one volume, about Irishwomen's lives in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	1	IRISH REBEL, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $4.50.) The latest novel in a series about Irish families in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	6	THE BLUEST EYE, by Toni Morrison. (Plume, $12.95.) The story of an 11-year-old black girl -- pregnant by her father -- who prays for blue eyes.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	 *RIVER'S END, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) The daughter of a glamorous Hollywood couple must cope with her family's horrifying past.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	5	THE SAVING GRACES, by Patricia Gaffney. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The close friendship that binds four women is put to the test.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	9	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $7.99.) A woman tries to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	5	THE KILLING GAME, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $6.99.) A forensic sculptor hopes to find her murdered daughter's remains.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	29	WHERE THE HEART IS, by Billie Letts. (Warner, $12.) A pregnant teenager finds help and caring in a small Oklahoma town.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	39	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $5.99.) A British boy attends a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	23	 *THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Island, $7.99.) A billionaire, a lawyer and a missionary are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	1	TRANSFER OF POWER, by Vince Flynn. (Pocket, $6.99.) A terrorist group descends on the White House and captures nearly 100 hostages.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	5	LAKE NEWS, by Barbara Delinsky. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) To escape a scandal in the big city, a singer flees to her seemingly idyllic hometown.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	3	 *WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $13.95.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teenage girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	105	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (HarperPerennial, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	83	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	47	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Vintage, $12.) A young woman's mental illness.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	109	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	14	 *THE ELEGANT UNIVERSE, by Brian Greene. (Vintage, $15.) A presentation of superstring theory.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	54	 *ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/S&S, $14 and $7.99.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood in Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	60	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 8	2	 *THE FIRST WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Vintage, $16.) A military historian recounts the 1914-18 conflict.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	9	 *BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $15.) An American remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	4	EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Berkley, $16.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	1	 *THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $14.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	62	 *GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEl, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geography. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 13	6	 *RAISING CAIN, by Dan Kindlon and Michael Thompson with Teresa Barker. (Living Planet/ Ballantine, $14.) The emotional life of boys.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	40	THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN, by Simon Winchester. (HarperPerennial, $13.) How a murderer helped compile the O.E.D.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	14	 *TRAVELING MERCIES, by Anne Lamott. (Anchor, $13.) A chronicle of the author's journey toward faith and spirituality.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	4	 *THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	7	CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE TEENAGE SOUL III, compiled by Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen and Kimberly Kirberger. (Health Communications, $12.95.) Inspirational stories. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	192	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	1	TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE, by Cheryl Richardson. (Broadway, $13.) A seven-step program for enhancing one's social, financial and spiritual well-being. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 3, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); TERRORISM (68%); FORENSICS (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (56%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



430 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 60; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4445 words

HEADLINE: The Guru of Small Things

BYLINE: By James Bennet; James Bennet, a staff writer for the magazine based in Washington, wrote a cover article about Hillary Clinton last year.

 BODY:
So it turns out that Hillary Rodham Clinton is as voracious a listener as her husband. On tour in New York, she has displayed an intense style all her own, her brow knitted, her head nodding metronomically. Her statewide "listening tour" was not just an act -- she remembers what she heard, and she recycles the good bits.
But it was partly an act, intended to be admired. There is another, stealthier kind of Clintonian listening that Hillary Clinton has been practicing all along. It is done on her behalf by strangers in Denver who phone her adopted home state, politely questioning New Yorkers. The answers they hear are filtered to Hillary Clinton through one man, Mark Penn, who also designs the questions. His careful listening has made him the most influential adviser to her campaign. 
 Some of what Penn wants to learn from New Yorkers is not so surprising. He wants to find out whether it bothers them that Hillary Clinton is not from New York, and whether they think she regards the Senate as merely a stepping stone. He has tried out possible lines of attack against her opponents and also their possible lines of attack against her. ("Do you think Hillary Clinton is too close to Rev. Al Sharpton?") He has worried quite a bit about the new Whitewater independent counsel, Robert Ray: "Do you think Ray is issuing his reports on Whitewater and the travel office later this summer because he is not done or because he is trying to do political damage to Hillary Clinton's campaign?" He has tested several slogans. One, which perhaps sounded a bit like a threat to some -- When you look at what Hillary's done so far, imagine what she'll do in the Senate" -- did not go over terribly well.
Along with these inquiries, he has been asking the sorts of tightly targeted questions about small-bore issues that are his signature. Those polled might have been astonished at the specificity of his interest, at the fineness of its grain. In suburban Westchester County, for example, those polled were asked if they would be more likely to vote for Hillary Clinton if she backed projects like the Port Chester Downtown Redevelopment or improvements to local transportation systems like the Westchester County Bee-Line System -- measures, they were told, that she "could support." In Nassau County on Long Island, those polled were asked whether they would be more inclined to vote for Hillary Clinton if she supported efforts there to lower property taxes or to improve transit services for the disabled. The answer in both cases was yes, to judge from the numbers, which were given to me by someone unhappy about Penn's sway over the first lady. It's the kind of unhappiness Penn has inspired among many around Bill Clinton, for whom he is also an influential adviser.
For years now, aides to the Clintons have insisted that they use polls not to decide which policies to support but to learn how to persuade others to share their positions -- not to follow, in other words, but to lead. It's not true. They use polls for both purposes, and that is why to understand the state of American politics and government you need to know about Mark Penn. For the Democrats who have used market-tested ideas and language to redefine the party, he is the man who writes the questions and interprets the answers. By adding and then dividing you, turning you into a percentage and stamping you with a label, he serves as your conduit to power. And theirs.
You should know this about Penn: For the decade before Dick Morris brought him and his partner Doug Schoen to work for the Clintons, Penn served mostly corporations like Texaco and Avis. Along with corporate marketing techniques, it was a particularly corporate view of reality that he put in the service of the Clintons. He thinks about voters not just in terms of ideology -- with the cold war over, who really has one anymore? -- but in terms of lifestyle and attitude, the sitcoms they watch and the music they listen to. He searches for the little spaces where politics and government might fit between work and trips to school and soccer games.
Penn, who four years ago succeeded Morris as Bill Clinton's political sounding board, sees the electorate's center not as a beige clump of moderates but as an array of distinct slices, each susceptible to a nuanced political appeal. To delight these niche voters, Bill Clinton presented a new line of low-cost products and services: more-efficient emergency telephone numbers, V-chips, an anti-truancy campaign and so forth. Now Penn is guiding Hillary Clinton to work up her own product line. He has tested out ideas like supporting appropriations for beach protection in Suffolk County and defense projects in Nassau County. He has wondered, Should Hillary Clinton push for more federal money to widen the Long Island Expressway?
This is a politics of discrete problem-solving and assiduous service, a sort of concierge politics. For Bill Clinton, it undercut Republicans' government-busting appeal, but it also abandoned traditional Democratic visions as it neatly inverted the exhortation of Clinton's boyhood idol and asked: What can your government do for you? How about a great deal on cell phones for block patrols? In doing these little things, Clinton adapted government's mission, turning government, in Schoen's term, into a "facilitator."
In essence, Penn-ism is post-health-care Clintonism -- for both Clintons. For Hillary, it corrects for a weakness -- she is still learning the state's political terrain -- and it plays to a strength: she has always been better at dogged, cautious service than the vision thing, though she and her most ardent supporters do not particularly like to think of her that way.
At the state level, Penn-ism looks a lot like plain old pothole-ism -- think Al D'Amato. Along with its panting pothole-fillers, though, New York has had more than its share of Senate statesmen and visionaries, and Hillary Clinton is running to replace one of them. Here are some questions Penn hasn't asked: Can you imagine Daniel Patrick Moynihan having to poll to decide whether to throw his weight behind transportation for the disabled? How about Bobby Kennedy?
Keeping a foot in the political and the corporate worlds has turned Penn and Schoen into big businessmen in their own right. Penn's office, half a block from the White House, is an advertisement for the business. On his desk, facing the visitor, sits a framed note in a familiar left-handed script thanking him for "all the great work" on the campaign. The same presidential hand penned the one-word note -- Thanks" -- on the Washington Post front page under glass on one wall. "Clinton Acquitted," reads the monster headline.
Fat wallet notwithstanding, this business has somehow avoided the customary fusillade from Washington's jumpy conflict-of-interest police. As he polls for Bill Clinton -- with the Democratic National Committee picking up the tab -- Penn is also helping Bill Gates run a campaign against the court-ordered breakup of Microsoft instigated by Clinton's Justice Department. He talks frequently by telephone with Gates and Microsoft's president, Steven Ballmer, as he does with Bill and with Hillary. One evening this winter, Penn was waiting on the runway when the president arrived at Westchester County Airport to visit his wife. Laptop open, Penn rode along in the presidential limo to the Clintons' home, then disappeared inside with the first couple. The next day, to the amazement and discomfort of White House aides, he turned up in Microsoft's communications war room in Redmond, Wash.
Penn's firm polls for AOL as well as Microsoft and for the centrist Democratic Leadership Council as well as the Democratic National Committee. It has worked for foreign presidents along with Procter & Gamble and Citibank. (Much of the corporate work is handled out of New York by a third partner, Michael Berland.) Many of the country's foremost political and business leaders are listening to America through the same small, secretive shop, sometimes through the same analyst. "Who else has Bill Gates, Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton holding?" marveled a senior member of Hillary Clinton's team. "Which call do you take?"
Penn is 46 years old. He is a tall, doughy man with a gentle voice. His shirts tend to go untucked and his cell phones missing. Though, with Schoen, he has presented weekly analyses to the president's brain trust for five years, he has never fit into the wisecracking fraternity at the White House, where for years he has been referred to, behind his back, as Schlumpy or Schlumbo.
There are Hillary Clinton aides who roll their eyes and complain that Penn grabs a seat beside the first lady at meetings in Washington, which are held in the White House's Map Room. But he has good reason to sit there, because his influence reaches throughout the campaign. In addition to polling, he serves on the tripartite advertising team with Mandy Grunwald, the Washington consultant, and the Devito/Verdi agency. His relationship with Grunwald is described as "very, very, very competitive" and with Harold Ickes, Hillary Clinton's other top adviser, as downright tense. There's not much love in that campaign.
Some campaign advisers to Hillary Clinton suspect that Penn functions as Bill Clinton's agent. Others wonder if it is wise to have the same man creating her message and testing its effectiveness. But they have noticed the way Hillary Clinton responds to Penn's points with exclamations like, Oh, Mark, what a smart thing to say! So while they say that he is obsequious to the boss and overbearing to inferiors, they do so privately. One pattern to Penn's career is that he is respected for his incandescent intellect and resented for his access to the principal and feared for same. Most of those who have worked with him do not like to attach their names to their criticisms.
One exception is Dick Morris. "He has the nervous system of a shark -- everything is either edible or inedible," Morris told me recently, sounding like Clinton aides once did in describing Morris. It is, Morris continued, "a measure of how good he is that you put up with this incredible nonpersonality."
Those who like Penn -- often those who have worked most closely with him -- say he is misunderstood. They say he is warm and kind but lacks social skills. It is interesting that a man who has trouble communicating has devoted his life to understanding how others think. Penn took his first poll when he was 13, determining that the faculty at his Bronx private school, Horace Mann, was more liberal than the country on civil rights. He went on to poll his classmates at Harvard, and since then, teamed with Schoen, he has polled on everything from the fictional "Bunny Burger" (for Spy magazine) to the public's reaction to bombing Bosnia (for Clinton). He likes to say he has elected 10 foreign presidents.
"It's hard for you to come up with a topic that I haven't polled on," Penn said recently over his favorite lunch -- sushi -- at his favorite out-of-the-way Washington restaurant, where, he said, you're guaranteed never to see a reporter. But when I turned the conversation toward polling he has done for either Clinton, I met with an uncomfortable silence. Penn is deeply loyal to his clients, a quality Hillary Clinton prizes in him.
While Penn is hulking and nervous, Schoen, 46, is small and deft. It is Schoen who sells their 25-year partnership, Schoen who brought in most of the clients, including Clinton and Gates. Of the two, Schoen is the better day-to-day operative, associates say, but it is Penn who can supply the insights that elect a long shot. David Garth, the storied consultant, nurtured their careers, hiring them for Ed Koch's mayoral campaign in 1977. They parted bitterly in the mid-80's, with Garth believing that his proteges had betrayed him over money.
At about the same time, Penn began building the corporate practice. In 1993, the advertising agency FCB-New York was pursuing the account of AT&T, which was losing market share to upstart rivals. FCB had developed a values-based theme, "Your True Voice," and it wanted to analyze AT&T's competitors' claims and counterpunch with precision. So Bill McDonough, an executive vice president at FCB, brought in Penn and Schoen for a campaign that was, in retrospect, a model for their political work to come.
For the presentation to AT&T, Penn and McDonough charted parallels between marketing and politicking. The chart, which captures the philosophy of Penn, Schoen & Berland, listed analogous categories: party identification was to brand loyalty as political job performance was to customer satisfaction as candidate reputation was to brand image as campaign promises were to company promotions as swing voters were to vulnerable customers.
After the AT&T account was won by FCB, Penn and Schoen began using lifestyle and behavioral polling data to segment long-distance users. The existing advertising, they found, was aimed at longtime customers who were going to stick with AT&T, while the company was ignoring swing groups, like immigrants making international calls home. Influenced by Penn and Schoen's polling data and stuffed with niche-market details, the AT&T commercials sowed doubts about M.C.I. Or put another way, "swing" consumers were lured to AT&T by carefully directed offers.
Having learned his way around Madison Avenue, Penn cast his eye
toward Pennsylvania Avenue and the mother of all political accounts,
the desperate Clinton campaign of early 1995. Morris had brought in Schoen, a friend of more than 20 years, and Schoen persuaded Clinton that he needed Penn's corporate skills. "Mark did a masterful thing," McDonough recalled. "All of a sudden, all the people in Washington wanted to understand how it was being done in the commercial marketplace. And Mark had this beautiful place where he could say, 'Here's how it's done."'
For months now, a dispute has preoccupied Hillary Clinton's campaign. Put crudely -- as it often is -- it centers on whether the campaign should primarily be about personality or issues. "Mark's attitude is the issues, the issues, the issues," one exasperated Clinton adviser said. Penn's view has been that Hillary needs to keep talking about things like the Westchester County Bee-Line and Suffolk County beach erosion. "People see a senator as a local representative, and what the senator is going to do for them on state and local issues is the most important factor in the race, and it correlates most closely with the vote," read an internal memo from Penn earlier this spring that accompanied his poll results. This is an analysis disputed by those in the campaign who insist that Hillary Clinton must address why it is that so many people can't stand her.
Penn has a reputation for reluctance in delivering bad news, and he was slow last year, some insiders say, to highlight Hillary Clinton's poor showing with women. Penn scorns focus groups, so the campaign brought in an outside pollster, Geoff Garin, who conducted several with women that showed they knew little about Clinton beyond Whitewater and the White House. That led to the biographical segment at the Democratic convention and the commercial touting her as "more than a first lady."
Penn has continued to push for an issues emphasis. One reason some close to Hillary have chafed at his power is that they think he has gotten lost in details and failed to generate a clear theme. A move is afoot within the campaign to hire another consultant to conduct more focus groups, mostly with white women in the suburbs and upstate.
For Penn, it is issues that define personality. "Classic product marketing," a close associate of Penn's said of this political strategy. "Get the benefits out. 'I use Electrolux vacuums because they suck up the dirt."' Seeming attention to "the people's business" cemented Bill Clinton's job-approval ratings through his sex-and-lies scandal. A daily fix of issues pulled swing voters to him in 1996. Factual advertisements for good deals shored up AT&T. And issues, Penn told me, will carry the day against Rick Lazio, the Long Island representative who suddenly became the Republican Senate candidate three weeks ago. "They don't really know who he is," Penn said, referring to the voters. That sounded dangerously as if he were talking about personality, until he added that once voters "find out more about him on the issues" and understand Lazio's stands "on both the future issues and the past," they will turn away from him.
Some in the campaign see Lazio's pep-squad personality as too small and bland for New York. But personality is a double-edged sword for Hillary Clinton, and for now, issues -- as Penn defines them -- rule.
For AT&T, however, issues alone did not carry the day. It was the link between those issues and FCB's "values" positioning, "Your True Voice," that prevented skeptical consumers from dismissing the facts as twisted to fit a claim. So it should come as no surprise that one of Penn's critical insights in 1995, which resounds in Hillary Clinton's campaign today, was that the president needed to reach voters not just through his proposals but also through their values. It was by connecting the proposals to values that he made them "sticky," to use the fashionable marketing term. "All of American industry in recent years has moved toward values as a selling point," Morris said. "Southwest Airlines doesn't run an airline -- it gives people freedom. And he brought that perspective into the Clinton campaign."
Penn urged Bill Clinton to begin speaking in new, market-tested phrases. In Hillary Clinton's campaign, Penn has likewise proved himself, in one adviser's words, "a maniac when it comes to wording." Many of her phrases are lifted from her husband's speeches. "We still have to remember to use the New Democrat language, symbols and positioning," reads that memo from Penn this spring. "This has dropped out of our speeches, and we are seen as much more liberal than the president."
When I spoke with Penn, he switched ambidextrously between corporate and political matters as he described his emphasis on issues. With a healthy sense of proportion, he chuckled over his work defending Pizza Hut from Papa John's, which advertised that its sauce contained "vine-ripened tomatoes." (Penn responded by accusing Papa John's of using canned mushrooms.) A moment later, however, he switched back to the political realm and made a surprising comparison. "If you think about it in Washington, it's policy versus policy," he told me. "It's their patients' bill of rights versus ours." The Democrats' bill, he noted, included a stronger right to sue. "You know, that's the vine-ripened tomatoes," he said. "That's the good stuff."
Vine-ripened tomatoes in the patients' bill of rights? It sounded awful. Yet as Penn explained his theory, he described a mix of noble conviction and more pragmatic calculation. People -- at least swing voters - are smart, and they demand information, Penn argued. The hair, the smile, the tie -- none of that matters. What matters is policy, and what's more, the nuances of policy. But the corollary to that theorem was that voters acted in the political marketplace, as in the commercial one, purely on self-interest. "The nuances determine who benefits, who loses," Penn said.
"My point was, whether it's vine-ripened tomatoes or canned mushrooms, people are sensitive to these details," he continued. "When it comes to policy, which is much bigger than phone service, my proposition is that they pay more attention to it, not less." Some of his comrades on the Clinton campaign have come to wonder whether, to appeal to that attentive self-interest, Penn would take any position on any issue.
The answer is that he probably wouldn't. he is a true believer in the New Democrat approach, to such an extent that it undermines the credibility of his political work among his fellow pollsters. The hazard of Penn's service-sector politics lies not in positions picked but in issues chosen to begin with. That is, it is a hazard of focus, of which customers politicians choose, through their pollsters, to listen to. As companies build market share point by point, Penn has worked to increase the Clintons' support with policies forged to tack on slivers of the electorate to the base vote. One Penn analysis of New York for Hillary Clinton informed her that "moderate upstate women are the most movable of voters right now." (It also declared that "carpetbagger is at manageable levels" and, in a classic bit of blue-sky-ism, reported that "there are now large numbers of voters just on the verge of voting for H.R.C.," whatever that means.)
The clearest demonstration of Penn's approach, and the mainspring of his work for the Clintons, can be found in a pinpoint analysis of the country that he conducted five years ago, at the beginning of Bill Clinton's re-election campaign. The same approach to thinking about the electorate, he told me, could serve just as well in any state, "particularly in a state as heterogeneous as New York."
Referred to as "psychographic" because it melds psychological with demographic data, Penn's "Neuro-Personality" poll was similar to a tool relied on by businesses. Called VALS ("values and lifestyles"), this tool uses questions about personal behavior and attitudes to divide the population into eight groups based on what motivates them. Because it enables companies to figure out which message will prompt particular groups to buy, the system has been used to push everything from vodka to smoking cessation to public radio to cereal. (That's just in one week.)
Penn created a VALS-style system for Clinton, linking political leanings to other traits. He asked voters 250 questions: Do you like to go bowling? Do you consider yourself shy? The survey produced some titillating results. Clinton voters watched MTV and "Oprah," while supporters of Bob Dole watched "Home Improvement." Swing voters listened to 50's music and watched "Seinfeld" and "Friends." People who acted on their intuition favored Clinton, while the "fact based" ones did not.
Sifting the data, Penn extracted eight population groups based on personality type, to which he assigned pseudo-psychological labels. Swing voters fell into three of the categories: "Sensing," "Thinking" and "Judging." The "Judging" group, for example, liked "a planned and organized approach to life" and favored both tighter gun control and stiffer sentences to deter crime.
These three groups shared a preference for details about policy. But there were differences in the policies they favored. Penn and Schoen divided this tripartite group in two, labeling the halves Swing 1 and Swing 2. To win, they calculated, Clinton needed 60 percent of the first and 30 percent of the second.
Swing 1 voters tended to be women, and they leaned Democratic. They were fiscally conservative but socially moderate. The V-chip was the perfect product for them. Swing 2 voters, more male, leaned toward the Republicans and favored services they thought of as punitive, like welfare reform. To reach them, "Clinton ran as almost a cultural conservative in southern Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee," Schoen recalled.
The "Neuro" poll suggested that swing voters wanted to hear the facts, Penn noted. As a result, he said, "it supported much more the bite-size approach than an approach of having huge plans or over-the-top goals." The base voters did not require such service, since they were not going to lose their enthusiasm for Clinton; that's what Newt Gingrich was for.
This kind of niche marketing remains Penn's basic approach. There is no burning issue now to draw people together, he argues: "We have this Balkanization of issues right now, where there's no single dominant issue. So in a lot of ways you reach people in little slices." Politicians have to respond to "mini-trends," he said, developments that might affect four or five million people nationwide.
Whether that approach will work for Hillary Clinton or any candidate besides her husband is anybody's guess. While Penn is advising Hillary Clinton, Schoen is handling Jon Corzine's New Jersey campaign for Senate. They need to win these races, having expensively lost three campaigns of wealthy men in 1998. They have a penchant for novice gazillionaire candidates.
It has not helped the firm that Al Gore fired Penn late last year, in part because, as one aide to the vice president said, Gore wanted to "move beyond the small-bore issues." He also wanted to distance himself from Clinton, and some aides faulted Penn as failing to ring the alarm over Bill Bradley. Yet since defeating Bradley in the primaries, Gore has not seemed so sure-footed, and George W. Bush, after his swing to the right, has been sidling toward the center. One political vulnerability of Penn's approach, with its emphasis on efficient regulation, low costs and accountability, is that it left the door open for a Republican smart enough to say, "Hey, me, too!" But we may yet see some values-based, small-bore initiatives from Gore. Penn is still polling for the D.N.C., where the national chairman, Joe Andrew, compares him to de Tocqueville. Through the D.N.C., Penn's work is available again to Gore as the party's certain nominee.
Whether or not the firm loses its grip on the Democratic Party, the corporate ethos it has helped foster in politics will endure. Too many other consultants have caught the bug. Like others, Karl Struble, a Democratic media consultant, thinks of his candidates as brands, and as any marketer will tell you, a brand cannot afford complexity. "If you want to be popular," Struble told me, "you're better off doing fewer things, and only one would be best."
Penn's service-sector politics has undeniable utility. Politicians are supposed to be public servants, after all, and his approach emphasizes responsiveness and accountability and policy over wardrobe. It calls for an activist government on the alert for public palliatives for private needs, at least the needs of swing voters. It was well conceived for prosperity and for a president with an eye for constituent service, but without great moral authority to urge sacrifice.
But it might be time for a Clinton to redefine Clintonism, again. Perhaps Hillary Clinton needs to do less listening and more telling -- about what she believes, not about what she believes New Yorkers believe she should believe, according to the polling of Mark Penn.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Josh Gosfield)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ELECTIONS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); CITY LIFE (60%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (50%); CITIES (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; PENN, MARK; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL SHARPTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



431 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 16; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Montreal

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is the Canada bureau chief of The Times.

 BODY:
Every summer, after the steel bonds of winter fall away, Montrealers leap forth for an outdoor season of street festivals, cafe-hopping, bicycling along canals or simply strolling streets imbued with the history of a city founded in 1642.
This bubble of Latin culture, the world's second-largest French-speaking city, after Paris, has drawn Americans since the days of Benjamin Franklin. Promoting itself this summer as "Paris without jet lag," Montreal can now throw in "without the long ride from the airport." All commercial air traffic now goes to Dorval International Airport, a 15-minute cab ride from downtown, as opposed to the 40-mile ride from Mirabel, the old airport. 
 Then there is the money: restaurant checks may look steep, but subtract a third, because $1 American buys almost $1.50 Canadian.
As Americans reserve Montreal hotel rooms at the fastest clip since the Expo 67 World's Fair, they will discover an attitude change here. Montreal is on the economic rebound as investors finally accept the "French fact." With a huge concentration of college students, Montreal is churning out a French-speaking middle class. With the French language more dominant in Montreal than it has been since the 1760's, separatism is on the back burner and Quebecers are increasingly self-confident and outward looking.
 
Events
Fireworks set to music is the theme of the Benson & Hedges International Fireworks Competition on 10 nights starting yesterday, ending July 30, over the old World's Fair grounds on Ile Ste.-Helene. Among the competitors are Japan, Germany, Italy and the United States. From 10 p.m. Seats range from $21 to $28 and can be ordered from (800) 361-4595. Information: (514) 872-6222.
The Montreal Jazz Festival will include 400 concerts, 300 of them free, largely in and around Place des Arts downtown, from June 29 to July 9. It is dedicated to Louis Armstrong and is expected to draw 2,000 musicians and an audience of 1.5 million. Among the performers expected are the trumpet player Arturo Sandoval, the bassist Dave Holland and the vocalist Ranee Lee. Information: (888) 515-0515. Schedules and ticket sales at www.montrealjazzfest.com.
The last weekend of the jazz festival, July 7 to 9, is also the weekend for Carifiesta, Montreal's Caribbean carnival. Like almost everything else here, the festival has a French touch, drawing on the traditions of Guadeloupe, Haiti and Martinique, with blasting bands to lure 150,000 people into the streets. A parade will be followed by a free party at the Champ-de-Mars, behind city hall. Information: (514) 735-2232.
The Afro beat picks up July 13 with Nuits d'Afrique for 10 days, some 30 concerts and nearly 300 musicians from Africa, the Caribbean and Black America. Information: (514) 499-9239. The schedule includes Miriam Makeba on opening night at the Spectrum nightclub (tickets $35) and Tiken Jah Fakoly, reggae singer from the Ivory Coast, in one of the free nightly concerts at Place Emilie-Gamelin.
What's so funny about Montreal? Find out at the Just for Laughs festival, July 13 to 23. Many of the 1,500 performances in French and English by stand-up comics and troupes from around the world will be free on outdoor stages along Rue St.-Denis. Among the headliners are Tim Allen, Eric Idle and William Shatner. For information, call (514) 845-3155 or visit www.hahaha.com.
July finishes with the Lesbian and Gay Pride celebration on the 31st. It draws from all over North America, with attendance expected to hit half a million for the Pride Parade on the last day, Aug. 6. An outdoor big-band concert is planned for Emilie-Gamelin Park at 8 p.m. on Aug. 1, and a street fair will take place at Ste.-Catherine East between Berri and Papineau on Aug. 5. Information: (514) 285-4011.
Through Oct. 15, the Museum of Fine Arts, 1380 Sherbrooke West, (514) 285-2000, will display 81 paintings, including Cezannes, Renoirs and Picassos, on loan from the Musee de l'Orangerie in Paris through Oct. 15. Open daily 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Admission $10.
 
Sightseeing
The delights of a Montreal summer require footwork: strolling centuries-old blocks and streets, inspecting architectural details, reading historic plaques, window shopping on streets lined with antiques shops, or sipping an allonge coffee at a sidewalk cafe. The best neighborhoods for walks are Vieux-Port, the Old Port section where the city began life 358 years ago; the Rue St.-Denis restaurant, cafe and shopping streets; and Rue Ste.-Catherine, the shopping and entertainment district.
For $13.50, the Montreal Museum Pass allows holders to visit 21 museums over two days. A good place to start is just off the docks in the old port section. The new Pointe-a-Calliere Montreal Museum of Archaeology and History, Place Royale at Rue de la Commune, offers visitors a good background on the city's development, starting with a fast-paced, Monty Python-style bilingual multimedia show on Montreal's history. The tower provides a bird's-eye view of Old Montreal and the St. Lawrence River. Open 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday to Friday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekends; (514) 872-9150. Admission $5.75, $2 ages 6 to 12.
If you need a break from the heat (yes, it can happen even in Montreal), slip into the cool and soothing, robin's-egg-blue interior of Notre-Dame Basilica, about three blocks up the hill from the history museum, at 110 Rue Notre-Dame West. This graceful Gothic Revival church was believed to be the largest religious edifice in North America when it opened in 1829. The architect, a New Yorker named James O'Donnell, was so taken with its soaring, gold-leaf interior and stained-glass windows depicting the history of Montreal that he converted to Catholicism in order to be buried there. Admission is $1.35.
Four blocks away, at the corner of Rue St.-Laurent and the river, Cirque du Soleil, the cultural ambassadors of modern Montreal, offer their first large-screen film, "Journey of Man," at the IMAX Old Port. Filmed all over the world, it follows a child as he travels from birth to adulthood. $8.45, seniors and teenagers $7. Information: (514) 496-4629 or www.imaxoldport.com.
The Montreal Botanical Garden, 4101 Sherbrooke East, one of the world's largest, hits full bloom in late June. With 21,000 species of plant, the gardens sprawl over 30 acres, ranging from formal European gardens, to a Chinese pavilion in the style of the Ming Dynasty, to a 16-acre arboretum and 10 exhibition greenhouses. Admission $6.45, seniors and students $4.75, ages 6 to 17 $3.20; (514) 872-1400.
After stopping to smell the roses, you may desire more vigorous activity. There's bicycling along an eight-mile lighted, paved path from Rene Levesque Park to the Pere Marquette Promenade, a route that passes by the Lachine Rapids. Bikes can be rented at any of several kiosks in the Old Port.
 
Where to Stay
American tourism is expected to surge this summer, so expect higher seasonal rates. Rooms can be scarce during major festivals.
With 487 spacious rooms, the Holiday Inn Montreal-Midtown, 420 Sherbrooke Street West, (514) 842-6111, fax (514) 842-9381, is a good bet during the peak season. Many of the rooms have views along Sherbrooke, Montreal's Fifth Avenue. Doubles are $114 to $150.
For the charm of Old Montreal, the Auberge du Vieux-Port, 97 Rue de la Commune East, (888) 660-7678, fax (514) 876-8923, is a late-19th-century stone building converted to a hotel. The 27 neo-classical rooms, in great demand, have brass beds, stone or brick walls, and large casement windows overlooking the port docks. Doubles are $129 to $179, including full breakfast.
Budget: At the junction of the busy bar, restaurant and boutique scene, at the corner of Rue Ste.-Catherine and Rue Crescent, the Comfort Suites, 1214 Rue Crescent, (514) 878-2711, fax (514) 878-0030, offers 96 simple, comfortable rooms, each with balcony. Doubles: $80 to $112.
One block to the east, the Novotel, 1180 Rue de la Montagne, (514) 861-6000, fax (514) 861-0992, offers slightly higher priced rooms on a street lined with boutiques and restaurants. The 227 rooms have bright, modern decor, and there is a fitness center. Doubles: $87 to $135.
Luxury: The Ritz-Carlton Montreal, 1228 Sherbrooke West, (514) 842-4212, fax (514) 842-4907, the 88-year-old empress of Montreal's Golden Mile, has just emerged from a renovation that added luster to its marble bathrooms, its rooms appointed with antiques, and to its piano bar and delightful garden restaurant. The turn-of-the-century ambience melds nicely with two-line phones in the 229 rooms. Doubles are $288.
The largest of half a dozen inns to open in historic buildings in old Montreal in recent years, the Auberge Bonaparte, 447 St.-Francois Xavier, (514) 844-1448, fax (514) 844-0272, offers views of Montreal's historic heart from many of its 30 individually decorated rooms. On a quiet side street, the Bonaparte has an excellent restaurant of the same name. Doubles $98 to $132.
 
Where to Eat
It used to be said that, after language and politics, food was the favorite topic of conversation in Quebec. But now, judging by the expanding waistlines of the graying separatist leaders, food may be winning out .
My introduction to the sensuous culinary delights of Montreal came last winter when a waitress at Toque instructed me to place a chunk of warm foie gras on my tongue and feel it dissolve around the sides. In an unpretentious setting on Montreal's restaurant row, Toque, 3842 Rue St.-Denis, (514) 499-2084, is near the top of the city's dining pyramid. Giving Quebecois products a new spin, the chef, Normand Laprise, serves maple-syrup-glazed quail as an appetizer, and roasted saddle of lamb with butternut squash and fiddlehead ferns among the main courses. Dinner for two, with wine, was $150. Reservations are essential.
Within walking distance of the Sherbrooke Street hotels is an old favorite for a quiet romantic dinner by the fireplace, Chez la Mere Michel, 1209 Rue Guy, (514) 934-0473. As flute music warbled, we had lobster souffle Nantua and tournedos bearnaise. Dinner for two, with wine, was $142.
In heavily French-speaking East Montreal, Laloux is an elegant restaurant popular with the business crowd at lunch. It is run by an expatriate French chef, Andre Besson, and is at 250 Avenue des Pins East, (514) 287-9127, on a quiet street far from the tourist flow. Laloux offers veal escalope with dried apricots, almonds, muscat wine sauce and linguini, or poached red snapper with white wine, a la mandarine, and crispy vegetables. Dinner for two, with wine, $68.
An affordable place in the Old Port neighborhood is Stash's Cafe, 200 St.-Paul West, (514) 845-6611, a Polish restaurant with a Warsaw counterculture air. Ensconced behind thick stone walls with views of pedestrian traffic, Stash's offers four-course menus for $13 to $16.50. Specialities include zurek (a white borscht), wild boar, and strudel.
Pino, 1471 Rue Crescent, (514) 289-1930, with a heavily Italian menu, is strategically perched on a second-floor corner, with tables placed by the curving windows for people-watching along Rue Ste.-Catherine. Calamari with garlic butter, a three-cheese green pasta and beers came to $36 for two.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Vieux-Port. McGill College Avenue. Chinese pavilions at the botanical garden. Miriam Makeba will sing on July 13. (Photographs by Pascale Simard for The New York Times, and Jack Vartoogian (Makeba))
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Montreal. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Statistics Canada, Tourism Montreal, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses)
 
Map of Montreal shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GUADELOUPE (79%); HAITI (79%); MARTINIQUE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); JAPAN (75%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (96%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

COMPANY: BENSON & HEDGES (54%); OLD PORT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLD PORT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL (QUEBEC); CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GUADELOUPE (79%); HAITI (79%); MARTINIQUE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); JAPAN (75%); GERMANY (53%); QUEBEC, CANADA (96%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS FESTIVALS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (87%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (69%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); TICKET SALES (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (52%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



432 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3036 words

HEADLINE: The Re-education of Anchee Min

BYLINE: By A. O. Scott; A. O. Scott is a film critic for The Times.

 BODY:
At 6 o'clock on a Sunday morning, the San Bernadino Freeway heading east from Los Angeles toward the San Gabriel Mountains is deserted, and the strip malls and subdivisions that sprawl along the hillsides are still blanketed in the gray sleepiness of night. But I am very much awake, thanks to jet lag and my anxious anticipation of the six-mile pre-breakfast hike to which the writer Anchee Min has summoned me.
Anchee's first book, the best-selling memoir "Red Azalea," published in 1994, chronicles Anchee's adolescence, during China's Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution. She grew up in a world turned upside down by ideological enthusiasm, a carnival of terror presided over by Mao Zedong and his wife, Jiang Qing. (The book may soon be made into a movie by Whit Stillman, the most proudly bourgeois filmmaker alive.) It ends, rather abruptly, with her departure, in September 1984, for the United States. In her mind, America might as well have been the moon, "icy, airless and soundless." 
 Even this peaceful, anodyne corner of blossoming Southern California suburbia seems a most unlikely place for Anchee Min to make her home. As the driver negotiates the curving streets of Hacienda Heights, I study the mock-Spanish house fronts and the succulent hedges for clues to the presence within of a former Red Guard and would-be revolutionary movie star who has become a wild, passionate and fearless American writer.
Instead, the cab stops in front of a generic ranch house with two cars, a tidy lawn and an "armed response" security sign. Anchee, a small, wiry woman in faded black sweat pants and a loose gray shirt, greets me and shows me into the sparsely furnished living room, where she introduces me to Lauryann, her 8-year-old daughter from a previous marriage, and Lloyd, the tall, soft-spoken high school English teacher she married last year. "We're not quite ready to go yet," she says. "Lauryann and I are still doing our warm-up."
Anchee presses the play button on a portable tape player, and she and Lauryann scramble to take up positions facing the long, mirrored wall. The room is soon filled with the sound of swooping strings and Chinese lyrics delivered in a keening, nasal soprano. Anchee, her mouth fixed in a wide stage smile and her back as straight as the barrel of a rifle, leaps and twirls across the room, whispering encouragement -- keep your head up, hold your arms straighter, keep smiling" -- to Lauryann, who is wobbly but determined. When the number is over, not sure how else to respond, I offer polite applause, which Lloyd joins. "That's from 'The White-Haired Girl,' "Anchee says. "One of Madame Mao's most famous operas."
Madame Mao -- Jiang Qing, the former Shanghai actress who seduced Mao Zedong in the caves of Yanan and later became the ideological architect of the Cultural Revolution -- is the subject of Anchee Min's new novel, "Becoming Madame Mao," published this month by Houghton Mifflin. Arrested after Mao's death in 1976, she was placed under a death sentence that was later commuted. In 1991, she committed suicide. In the years since her downfall, Jiang has served as an image of political monstrosity in the West and in China (where she was denounced as a "white-boned demon"), a case study in revolutionary fanaticism and ruthless cunning. "She's the concubine who gets too much power and destroys the dynasty," Anchee explains. "It's a very old story in China." And one that resonates deeply with Anchee, who will also publish a novel about China's last empress dowager. "That one's going to be 800 pages long," says Lloyd with a laugh.
"Becoming Madame Mao" is a compact, dramatic historical saga -- and, Anchee insists, "completely accurate. You can check it all out." The story begins with a young peasant girl named Yunhe tearing the bindings from her feet and follows her as she develops into a provincial Eve Harrington in the Shanghai theatrical world of the early 30's. She reinvents herself again, first as Lan Ping, an aspiring Communist intellectual, and then, after she marries Mao, as Jiang Qing, helpmate of a rising emperor. In all her later incarnations, she is a figure of indomitable will and quicksilver passion -- a kind of Marxist-Leninist Eva Peron. She visits chaos, misery and wanton slaughter on millions, but is at the same time a victim of deeply rooted misogyny; overcoming it, she emerges as a feminist heroine despite herself.
Culture was Jiang Qing's main base of operations. The Cultural Revolution began in 1966, following the denunciation of the popular play "The Dismissal of Hai Rui From Office." At the revolution's height, Madame Mao and her coterie of artists and intellectuals controlled everything that the film studios, operas, theatrical companies and radio stations produced. And so Anchee, who was born into a more or less middle-class Shanghai family in 1957, grew up listening almost exclusively to loud, long and bombastic celebrations of China's triumphant revolutionary proletariat, four-hour extravaganzas in which, typically, a lone heroine challenged the cruelty of feudal landlords, Japanese invaders or Kuomintang soldiers and embodied the chaste, radiant virtue of the People's Republic.
Despite the 30 intervening years, the waning of Maoist fervor and her own transplantation to the land of Britney Spears, these operas still loom large in Anchee's daily life. A sheaf of mint-condition opera postcards -- depicting scenes that look like military campaigns adapted by Rodgers and Hammerstein -- remains one of her greatest treasures, along with an impressive collection of vintage red Mao buttons, some of which are featured on the cover of "Becoming Madame Mao." And as we trundle along the wildflower-dappled trails, Lauryann and her mother trade revolutionary arias, as well as Chinese folk songs celebrating the beauty of nature.
Later, as we ride along the freeway in Lloyd's red Volvo, Anchee cranks up a recording of operas composed under Madame Mao's stern patronage. The performance of these operas has been banned in China since the late 1970's, but in their heyday they were a lifeblood of revolutionary youth culture. When this collection came out on compact disc a few years ago, Anchee says, "it sold millions of copies, especially among people around my age." Even as they recall nightmare years of repression and deprivation, the operas of the Cultural Revolution are, for Anchee's generation, something equivalent to what Motown or the Beatles are for American baby boomers -- the soundtrack, at once personal and collective, of youth. "This was all we had, the only popular culture there was. We listened to it over and over, we knew all the words. This was what we had to express ourselves," she explains. And even as she grimaces at the blatantly propagandistic intentions of the music, she also calls to my attention "the human element." She defends not only the operas' musical quality -- which she attributes to the composer (and revolutionary minister of culture) Yung Hui-yung, portrayed in "Becoming Madame Mao" as an eccentric, self-destructive genius -- but also, to a certain degree, their political value. "All the traditional opera and theater is about men," she said. "Madame Mao wanted to show women in a heroic role."
In "Becoming Madame Mao," Jiang Qing is the heroine of her own opera -- lustful, vulnerable, imperious and ultimately tragic. Anchee's sense of her own life, as recalled in her memoir and in conversation, sometimes takes on operatic qualities as well. While she deprecates her skills as an actress -- I could never get that kind of feeling you need, the really strong emotion" -- she comes across, on the page and in person, as someone with a fine sense of drama. Her narration of her own life in "Red Azalea," like the passages in her new book rendered in Madame Mao's own voice, is marked by an emotional nakedness and a sexual intensity that overwhelm history, narrative and even sometimes the English language.
Anchee's traumatic encounter with Mao's misrule begins with her family's eviction from their Shanghai apartment and their relocation to a squalid communal house, where food was scarce. But the degradation and economic hardship the family endures is incidental to "Red Azalea," which is centrally concerned with the moral corruptions of a system organized around rituals of private treachery and public shame. Her father, whose great passion was astronomy, was dismissed from a coveted job for discussing sunspots. "They told him the sun represents Chairman Mao," Anchee tells me, "and that talking about sunspots is criticizing the chairman." The climax of the book's first section comes when Anchee is coerced into denouncing her favorite teacher, who had introduced her to the ideologically tainted works of Hans Christian Andersen, as an American spy.
At 17, Anchee is sent to the Red Fire Farm, a labor camp in which people appear to speak entirely in proverbs from the Mao's "Little Red Book" and where every word, thought and action is subjected to rigorous scrutiny. The policing of sexuality is especially intense: when one of Anchee's co-workers, a young woman named Little Green, is caught in a sexual relationship with a man, her lover is sentenced to death for rape. Little Green suffers a complete mental collapse and eventually drowns herself in a river.
But amid this repression, "Red Azalea" is an improbable and vivid love story. Anchee develops a crush on a work-team leader, a woman named Yan. A paragon of Maoist discipline and rectitude, Yan is locked in a bitter power struggle with the dogmatic and hypocritical Lu. Female rivalry is one of Anchee Min's great themes, and this escalating cat fight between Lu and Yan foreshadows Jiang Qing's battles with other actresses and political wives. But the lyrical simplicity of Anchee's prose also renders Yan and Lu as allegorical figures, embodiments of the two sides of the Communist personality, or of her own profound ambivalence about the culture of Maoism. Yan is selfless, hard-working and radiantly sacrificial, while Lu is manipulative, cruel and demanding.
"Nobody ever talks about it, but I think it must have been very common," Anchee Min says when I ask her about her relationship with Yan, the physical dimensions of which are related in passages at once steamy and curiously metaphorical:
"The moment I touched her breasts, I felt a sweet shock. My heart beat disorderly. A wild horse broke off its reins. She whispered something I could not hear. She was melting snow. I did not know what role I was playing anymore: her imagined man or myself. I was drawn to her. The horse kept running wild. I went where the sun rose. Her lips were the color of a tomato. There was a gale mixed with thunder inside of me. I was spellbound by desire."
"You know, it was much tamer than you probably imagined when you read it," she says. "We couldn't have boyfriends, and each of us was being like a boyfriend to the other." Maybe so, but the story ends with Anchee's heartbreak when she lets Yan use her bedroom for a tryst with an actual boyfriend. When I ask if she knows what became of Yan, Anchee looks wistful. "I did find out about her," she says. "She sent a message through a friend that said hello, she wished me well, but she didn't want to see me. It's very painful for a lot of people to remember that time."
One day as Anchee was working in the cotton field, a team of talent scouts from the Shanghai film studio noticed her proletarian good looks and whisked her away for acting lessons. "Madame Mao said I had the perfect peasant-type face," Anchee says, lifting her chin and squeezing her cheekbones to prove the point. After intense competition, Anchee won the lead role in a propaganda film inspired by Madame Mao herself. The role promised to make her famous, since "people all over China had to see the films or be labeled reactionaries."
But the film was never completed. When Jiang Qing fell, after Mao's death, Anchee, now classified as Madame Mao's "political debris," became the pariah of the film studio. Treated as a nonperson and forced to perform endless menial tasks, Anchee slipped into despair. "I was ready to kill myself," she says, recounting a long night she spent staring at the gas jets in the bathroom of the communal house she was living in. The years of her disgrace are tersely dealt with in the final paragraphs of "Red Azalea," which ends with her arrival in America, thanks to the intervention of "a young friend whom I used to know in film school."
The friend was Joan Chen, who has herself recently explored the repressed memories of the Cultural Revolution in her film "Xiu Xiu: The Sent-Down Girl." With Chen's help and sponsorship from an aunt in Singapore, Anchee Min obtained a passport and submitted an application to the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, the only American college she could find that didn't require proof of her proficiency in English. So Anchee, who didn't know a word of the language, had a friend fill out the forms for her. "She checked the box that said 'English: excellent,' "Anchee says. Her application was accepted.
She arrived in Chicago, wordless and friendless, and was promptly dismissed from the college, with six months to gain proficiency in English or face deportation. "I watched 'Sesame Street,' 'The Electric Company' and Oprah Winfrey every day," she says, noting with a wry smile that it was Winfrey who later optioned her second book, "Katherine," for a movie. In Chicago, she met her first husband, a fellow Chinese emigre. (They were divorced in 1995.) While supporting herself waiting on tables, painting floral designs on women's underwear and doing anything else she could find, she began to write her memoir. "It was because of Little Green," she says. "I had so much guilt about what happened to her. I wasn't thinking of getting published or being a writer, but I felt like I had to pay this debt to her."
She chose English because Chinese was too freighted with Maoist cant, and emptied of expressive possibility. "We didn't have any words for what happened to us," she says of her generation. "There was no way for me to describe those experiences or talk about those feelings in Chinese. The Chinese language for me was taken over by Mao and Jiang Qing." Her prose, crude and powerful, with some of the sharp lyric compression of an Emily Dickinson poem, is full of raw, unassuaged anguish, and also surprising humor. She vividly registers both the horror and the ridiculousness of daily life under totalitarianism.
"At the film studio, they told Joan Chen to stay away from me, because I was a bourgeois individualist, and politically complicated," she says, savoring the old catch phrases. "I think they were right." Perhaps they were. She lives now, with her child, her new husband and her newly planted geraniums, in a place that has raised bourgeois individualism to a universal principle, a utopian ideal more powerful than Communism ever was. But her political complexity hasn't gone away. Her husband, Lloyd, served as a marine in Vietnam, not far from where his future wife was learning anti-imperialist catechism as a Red Guard. "I say to him, 'If we met each other 30 years ago we would have killed each other,' "Anchee says as we stroll along a quiet side street. "When I was in school they showed us a movie about a Vietnamese girl who was captured by the Americans, and it showed them gouging out her eyes with spoons. I would have strapped a bomb on myself and blown him up, and myself too." But she also says, with sincere admiration, that Lloyd would have made a good Communist because of his dedication to his students. "He's up every morning at 4 o'clock, and he's not done until 6 or 7 at night. He works so hard on their papers, and he's very tough with them."
Though Anchee Min travels freely between California and Shanghai, and is occasionally featured in newspaper articles in her homeland (which her father collects for her), none of her books have been published there. "That could never happen as long as they think Mao is George Washington," she says with resignation. But though Mao appears, in the pages of her book, as a rapacious, narcissistic bully, Anchee doesn't regard him entirely as a monster. "I wouldn't say that I worship Mao," she says judiciously, "but I do admire some things about him. He was a great poet, you know. The two of them, Mao and Jiang Qing, it's important to remember that they were artists." Mao's earthy, witty verses show up in the book, and Anchee endows their author with an undeniably seductive vitality. Indeed, the account of his affair with Jiang Qing read like a classic bodice-ripper, overheated and faintly absurd: " 'Everyone expects me to be a stone Buddha without desire or feelings,' he gasps on top of her. 'My comrades would like me better if I were a eunuch. But I am a tiger who can't be a vegetarian!' "
The human Mao, like the human Jiang Qing, has been lost to history, a development Anchee regards with both relief and a touch of regret. Nowadays, she says a bit wistfully, nobody wants to read his poems. And the "Little Red Book" that was the literary cosmos of her youth has become something of a joke to the young generation in China. "They just want to tear everything down. They just care about making money, buying as many things as they can," she says, with a curiously familiar baby boomer ring.
One of Mao's great essays was called "On Contradiction," and Anchee, a child of Maoism in spite of it all, seems to live and write according to its logic. On a hot afternoon in the quiet town of Temple City, near Pasadena, Anchee, Lloyd and I stand around the back room of a storefront Chinese ballet school, waiting for Lauryann's class to begin. A group of girls is being drilled by a woman in her 60's with imposing posture and a stern demeanor. "Look at her." Anchee says. "She reminds me of Madame Mao." Surprised to hear a dance teacher compared with a genocidal dictator, I mutter something about how severe she seems. "No." Anchee says quietly. "Her face, that pale skin. So beautiful, don't you think?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anchee Min (left) landed a lead role in a propaganda film, but after the fall of Madame Mao, her reputation was left on the cutting-room floor. (Stephane Sednaoui)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BECOMING MADAME MAO (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CULTURAL REVOLUTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULTURAL REVOLUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WRITERS (89%); RETAILERS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); BESTSELLERS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (61%); 

PERSON: ANCHEE MIN; SCOTT, A O JIANG QING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



433 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 15; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-18-00;
No More Mr. Nice Guy

BYLINE: By Stephen S. Hall; Stephen S. Hall, a contributing writer for the magazine, wrote most recently about supersmart teenagers.

 BODY:
Back in the 1970's, fresh out of college and living in Rome, I was often invited to eat Sunday dinner with a working-class Italian family. The conversations, almost all of which were about politics, invariably escalated from "Ciao" to an invective-filled uproar in about 60 seconds, with eye-popping epithets hurled across the table. Typically American, I experienced a visceral unease at such displays of anger and yet also a voyeuristic fascination. That same complex emotional response has begun to set in during the current political season.
Anger is already a leitmotif in this year's presidential campaign. In April, George W. Bush vowed to "end the arms race of anger" in American politics and called for a return to comity in the public conversation. Al Gore's handlers, meanwhile, have been trying to make him more huggable. In New York, Mayor Giuliani has molted his cutworm skin and emerged as the Love Bug. But here's what comity gets you: that picture of Hillary Clinton and Rick Lazio stiffly shaking each other's hands with transparently insincere smiles as brittle as frost. 
 Americans have long been uncomfortable with displays of anger from their public servants. Senior journalists still tend to referee politics according to what might be called the Smithereens Infraction. Presidential candidates in particular dare not betray the slightest hint of being short-tempered, lest this pique be perceived as the kind of hotheaded instability that might bring the world to the brink of nuclear annihilation -- or, nowadays, Nasdaq to its knees.
I'm not sure that the reflexive distrust of anger serves politics well now. The Republicans are talking about making their convention a vitriol-free zone this summer, even trotting out a rehabilitated John McCain. But his participation will serve only as a reminder of the kind of healthy political anger that Bush's victory managed to quell. Back in February, conceding to Bush after the South Carolina primary, McCain was mad. With barely contained indignation, he condemned Bush's winning strategy -- the below-the-belt questioning of his military valor, the relentless attack ads, the courtship of the religious right. On CNN, Jeff Greenfield and Judy Woodruf wagged their fingers at McCain's outburst -- and his temper, not what prompted it, became the story. Bush wiped the mud off his hands and, his party's nomination safely in possession, suddenly became the king of comity.
We could use more anger, not less, in the campaign. Not the kind of anger recently forsworn by Mayor Giuliani -- the aggressive, mean-spirited, egocentric kind fired by self-interest -- but the kind that cuts through the Muzak of politics-by-focus-group and causes voters to believe that a candidate might actually believe in something larger than the latest in-house poll. High-minded anger can be a great rhetorical tool, precisely because it is genuine, passionate and often unscripted. Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech is one of the masterpieces of 20th-century oratory because of the smoldering indignation that warms every word. The defining failure of Bill Clinton's presidency is that his most public expression of anger in nearly eight years in office did not serve to galvanize public sentiment on poverty or health care or racial injustice. The full-throated fury of the man's political soul was directed at "that woman." His rage got our attention, but it did so in the service not of an idea but of his own reputation.
That's the problem. In these self-absorbed times, no one in politics gets publicly angry about anything larger than his or her ambitions. Oh, there's plenty of anger afoot in the culture at large. Each of us boils over in response to insults of breathtaking triviality: being put on hold, getting cut off by a motorist, waiting for a table at a restaurant. Little incivilities produce enormous hemorrhages of bile, which may explain our simultaneous horror and fascination on those rare occasions when a politician does let loose. Our sense of outrage has become so self-centered, so circumscribed, so small that our collective social anger has itself become small-minded, and we've lost the ability to hear righteous anger for what it can be -- a principled recalibration of society's moral compass. In learning to distrust and discourage political anger, we have delegitimized the things that should make us angry. Today, there is no righteous anger, only self-righteous anger, which is always easy to dismiss.
Hence, our current politics of small-minded vitriol, with its undermining negativity, its huge economies of energy devoted to stalemate and sinecure. When I lived in Italy, it was commonplace (as it still is) to make fun of the operatic parade of dysfunctional Italian governments. The truth is, we have effectively adopted all the salient principles of Italian politics -- the art of obstruction, the rhetoric of obfuscation, the elevation of self-interest above public interest, all with the oily, insincere veneer of comity. The coming anger-free election season promises more of the same, and if recent trends are any predictor, voters will stay away in droves.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Richard Pipes)
 
Chart: "Raising Arizona Temper"
Many Arizonans active in policy making have been the victims of McCain's volcanic temper. . . . McCain once engaged in an elevator shouting match with Senator Carl Levin of Michigan over the John Tower hearings, and he publicly abused Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama. He seemed to take special glee several years ago in dressing down former Arizona Gov. Rose Mofford and Phoenix Mayor Paul Johnson during their separate visits to Washington. . . . There is . . . reason to seriously question whether McCain has the temperament, and the political approach and skills, we want in the next president of the United States. -- From an editorial in The Arizona Republic, Oct. 31, 1999
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WRITERS (65%); FOCUS GROUPS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: HALL, STEPHEN S; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) JOHN MCCAIN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD SHELBY (74%); AL GORE (57%); CARL LEVIN (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



434 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
An Idea of Architecture; an Architecture of Ideas

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
ARCHITECTS are Freudian figures in a Marxian landscape. This was one clear message that emerged from the final ANY conference, a three-day architectural talent fest held earlier this month at the Guggenheim Museum. To get their work done, architects must operate in an environment increasingly ruled by market values. And this Darwinian backdrop heightens the peculiarities of the creative life. Architects, many of the best ones, are isolated individuals who are driven to construct social spaces. Their work displays the public virtues of their personal defects.
Organized with great dedication by the writer and editor Cynthia Davidson, the ANY conferences were held each year starting in 1991. (The countdown-to-the-millennium format was intentional.) Some of the world's most gifted architects participated, including Arata Isozaki, Peter Eisenman, Rem Koolhaas, Jean Nouvel, Zaha Hadid, Ben van Berkel and Carolyn Bos, Elizabeth Diller, Rafael Moneo and Jacques Herzog. Joining the architects was an equally stellar cast of critics, philosophers and scholars, many of them influenced by the work of Jacques Derrida and other philosophers of the French post-structuralist school. In addition to Mr. Derrida himself, the list of writers and academics included Beatriz Colomina, Mark C. Taylor, Sanford Kwinter, Rosalind Krauss, Jeffrey Kipnis, Paul Virilio, Fredric Jameson, Anthony Vidler, Sylvia Lavin and Saskia Sassen. 
 I attended only the last of the conferences, so I can't give a full account of the entire cavalcade. But most journalists who cover architecture knew about ANY. I once got a call from a publicist who said she was doing promotional work for it. I remember thinking, isn't that redundant? So mean! In fact, the published proceedings of the ANY conferences provide an unparalleled record of architecture's fragmented state at the close of the 20th century. As the new wave of pixels, superstrings and chaos crashed down on our crumbling bricks and mortar world, ANY held at least a muddled idea of architecture aloft.
The conferences grew out of a moment when post-structuralist philosophy was at its peak of influence in American academic studies. After infiltrating art and literature departments, post-structuralist theorists began to consolidate their position in architecture schools. To them, architecture was the most challenging field post-structuralism could take on. Unlike fiction, fine art and popular culture, architecture offered theorists an opportunity to tear open the organization of society in real-life, everyday space. To others, the rise of theory looked like one more case of architecture coming late to the party. Any party.
The name ANY originated as an acronym for Architecture/New York, though this year's conference was the first to be held in our fair city. Each conference bore a different title, from which that year's event ostensibly took its theme. Thus Anyone (convened in Los Angeles in 1991) begat Anywhere (Yufuin, Japan, 1992) begat Anyway (Barcelona, 1993) and so on down the nonsense chain of Derridean wordplay through -place,
-wise, -body, -how, -time, -more and -thing.
A lot of meaning came packed into that baby-talk nonchalance. "ANY" carried a connotation of openness, for example (though this meaning was fiercely contradicted by the exclusivity of the events). It also suggested a desire to avoid creating intellectual hierarchies (also contradicted, in typical post-structuralist form, by raising post-structuralism itself to a privileged pinnacle). There were also less benign interpretations: an infatuation with the random and arbitrary; a desire to hedge bets; a refusal to commit to any point of view except negation.
ANY's goal, so far as an outsider could discern one, was to establish architecture on a so-called "discourse-based model." That is, the project aimed to make design subject to the intellectual rigor ostensibly demanded in the practice of philosophy. For many, such an enterprise was doomed from the start. After all, the rigor of post-structuralist thought had never been clearly established. Even if that were not in doubt, ANY would have been a quixotic undertaking, at least in the eyes of those who consider architecture an art. Art and philosophy are counter-propositions. They are different modes of apprehension. To say that art embodies ideas is not to suggest that artists should illustrate them.
Detractors found it easy to dismiss ANY on other grounds as well: the conference represented architecture's succumbing to intellectual fashion. Its participants were using philosophy as a marketing tool. Its exclusivity was just a high-brow version of architecture's accelerating withdrawal from the public realm. It was too obedient to Peter Eisenman, Ms. Davidson's husband, an architect who has long relied on philosophy to give his architecture an aura of prestige.
One must, I think, acknowledge the partial truth of these objections to get at what was valuable about ANY. It created at least a few shreds of solidarity among architects who would otherwise remain spinning in their separate spheres. It helped to retrieve architecture from the historical trash can to which the post-modern movement had gleefully consigned it. It exposed architects to potentially useful tools of cultural analysis. It helped to sustain the belief that, even in a relativistic universe, it is still possible to discriminate.
For me, ANY was an incentive to carry on with a mid-life course in the history of ideas. Starting out in the mid-1980's with the standard post-structuralist reading list (Lyotard, Deleuze, Derrida, Foucault, Lacan), I found my way to more sympathetic writers (Benjamin, Barthes, Rorty, Jameson, Murdoch, Bloom), and these led me back, in turn, to Freud, Marx, Nietzsche, Plato and other contributors to the Western canon.
As a result, I grew more confident in the value of criticism, more convinced that the difference between informed and uninformed opinion is a distinction worth pressing. Unfashionable concepts like morality became more accessible, provided I had the wit to construct plausible contexts for them. No one needed ANY to read philosophy, of course. But Ms. Davidson provided the incentive of immediacy. If architects today are philosophically up on their toes, that is partly because of the paces she put them through.
Since I'm not a post-structuralist, I have no trouble "privileging" one point of view -- mine -- above others at this particular moment. In my view, the main task of architecture today is to mediate between our inner and outer worlds. It is an art of redefining boundaries, of articulating thresholds, bridges, edges, borders and passages. It is an art of transitions -- from one place to another, one time to another, one mind to another, between subjective perception and objective reality, private and public space, and between different ecosystems. This is why I found it gratifying that Rem Koolhaas was awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize for the year 2000 late last month. The prize honored an individual, of course, but it also honored an idea, a transitional way of thinking about architecture that others have come to share.
ON the final day of the ANY conference, Mr. Koolhaas presented two recent projects: a new headquarters for Universal City in Los Angeles and a quartet of Prada stores. Both projects address the question of corporate image. This is something Mr. Koolhaas knows quite a lot about. For many who have yet to see his buildings, the architect has himself become an icon. And his particular iconography states that he's a high-brow architect who yearns to tackle low-brow projects: the thinking person's Jon Jerde.
For Mr. Koolhaas, shopping represents a reality principle, but of a particular kind. It signifies the bottom-line economics that govern the material world, the historical transition of the developed countries from production to distribution and the marketing apparatus that entices people to buy. But Mr. Koolhaas is part of the apparatus. He designs mental landscapes for shoppers who find themselves welcoming an invasion of images.
The modern aesthetic was theoretically objective. It evoked the rational mechanics of technology and industrial production. A Koolhaas design may employ modern forms and materials -- glass, grids, sculptural abstraction -- but does not organize these elements into a neutral, functionalist container. There are subjectivisms along the way. Floors morph into ramps, spirals into squares; escalators expand space as if through a camera lens. Reason is contorted by desire. We seem always to be slipping through some porous membrane, back and forth between semipublic and semiprivate space, as if no fixed boundaries divide environment from self.
All architecture stimulates desire, to the extent that it is able to receive or revise our projected ideals of beauty, and some may find Mr. Koolhaas's fascination with shopping a crude commercialization of those ideals. But he can't be accused of ignoring objective realities.
At the ANY conference, one had to settle for individual presentations like Mr. Koolhaas's. There was almost no discussion among the participants, or with the audience. But the frozen tableaus of panelists was a presentation in itself. The awkward body language, the sullen refusal to catch the ball, or even toss one, made for an arresting picture: a group of allegorized city-states arrayed across a map. Each city-state had its own ambitions, resources and views of the world. Few showed any interest in the outlooks of others.
This is why the most Utopian moment at the conference occurred when Mr. Koolhaas spoke about his intention to collaborate with other strong-willed architects, like Herzog and de Meuron, the Swiss team with whom he is currently designing a hotel in New York for Ian Schrager. Frankly, I don't know whether teaming up like this can be made to work. But it does seem to me the most provocative step architecture could take at this time. How else can the inmates hope to take over the asylum?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ANY conference at the Guggenheim Museum this month included a presentation by the Dutch architect Ben van Berkel, above, and Rem Koolhaas's concept for the Universal headquarters, left. (OMA inset ; Librado Romero/The New York Times above )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) MARK C HULSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PHILOSOPHY (88%); LITERATURE (75%); MILLENNIUM (74%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT ZAHA HADID (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



435 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
With a Bulldozer, Making 18 Holes of Art And Protecting Nature

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: PINE HILL

 BODY:
ERIC BERGSTOL brought his golf cart to a screeching stop and uncurled the lanky frame that at one time had him touring South America as a semiprofessional basketball player.
On this beautiful spring day, Mr. Bergstol loped over to a grassy area and splayed his arms forward. 
 "Look at this," he said as he stood at the third hole, under construction at Pine Hill Golf Club. "This is something you can't find on a public course anywhere for hundreds of miles around. Before him, were hills and rills and rises of all kinds. Trees and a wooded stream were off to his right and left. In the distance, the sun was shimmering off the Philadelphia skyline.
"I do houses and commercial developments and they are nice and make money," said Mr. Bergstol, president of the Bergstol Enterprises development company. "But a good golf course, I think it can be a work of art."
When it opens in the fall, Pine Hill Golf Club will be one of four upscale public courses Mr. Bergstol will have developed in New Jersey. His first two -- New Jersey National Golf Club at The Hills in Basking Ridge and Pine Barrens Golf Club in Jackson -- have won various awards from the golf cognoscenti. Like Pine Hill, Twisted Dune Golf Club in Egg Harbor Township is under construction and will be open for full play next year.
But it is Pine Hill that Mr. Bergstol sees as his signature. Built on a former ski slope, the land on which Mr. Bergstol is building Pine Hill was taken over by the borough of Pine Hill for taxes in 1995, after the owners of the ski area went into bankruptcy. For the next several years, the borough unsuccessfully tried to find a use for the 186-acre site, until Mr. Bergstol bought an additional 174 acres adjacent to the site and presented the idea of an upscale public golf course.
"It's very hard to get approvals for golf," Mr. Bergstol said. "There are so many issues between the environment and other development items. But some communities really like golf, since it preserves open space and, if you do it right, you actually enhance the environment."
Tom Hassett, the councilman in Pine Hill in charge of economic development feels Mr. Bergstol has done just that. "This property was a mess, a burned out area where people would race cars, junk them and leave them there," he said. "He has cleaned everything up, preserved the trout stream, done everything we've asked. And to be able to bring in Tom Fazio, who turns down 10 designing jobs for every one he takes, well, that is amazing. This will truly be something we will be proud of."
Mr. Bergstol has done much the same in his other New Jersey courses. At New Jersey National, he used parkland around an existing residential community. At Pine Barrens, he used 420 acres, double that of the usual public golf course, to leave environmentally sensitive areas undeveloped within the grounds. He has done much the same at Pine Hill, which he thinks will actually enhance the golfing experience there.
"Look, here's mountain laurel and here's a trout stream that was all but dormant before we came here," he said while driving a golf cart on the winding path through the woods between holes four and five. There and between the next four holes, the trail from the green to the next tee goes through environmentally sensitive park and wetlands. It cost Mr. Bergstol more to buy and work around the extra acreage, but he thinks that is what will make Pine Hill stand out from run-of-the-mill public course.
"Great golfers want real golfing challenges, and we will give them that on our courses," he said. "But everyone who comes out wants an interesting experience. Going through these woods between holes will make the whole experience more pleasant. And the views when you come out of the woods, well, you just can't beat them anywhere in New Jersey."
Mr. Bergstol grew up in Rockland County, N.Y., and he still lives there. A pretty fair basketball player, he took his game to Kings College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and then did his stint as a semipro abroad before coming back into the family construction business. But he was also a scratch golfer and decided to bring his golfing passion to his business. He needed a niche, and high-end public courses seemed to be it.
"People pay these outrageous initiation fees and then $6,000 or more a year just to play a good private course in New Jersey and New York," Mr. Bergstol said. "There are municipal courses that are reasonable, but many of them aren't well kept. So the demographics were there -- a lot of golfers with some, but not endless supplies, of money who wanted good courses."
Mr. Bergstol doesn't claim that courses are rock-bottom cheap. Depending on times, it costs $85 to $105 to play 18 holes at Pine Barrens, two to three times that of many public courses in the state. By the time Pine Valley opens, it may be more than that to play there. But Mr. Bergstol defends that as a fair price for what he is offering.
"This will be a unique course," he said as the golf cart stops at the 17th hole, which Mr. Bergstol says is his favorite. The bluegrass and sawgrasses on the rough and fairway are starting to grow in, covering the loamy sand. The pine-lined steep hills up and down the 17th are scenic in themselves, and the skyline of Center City Philadelphia looms in the distance.
And a driver and two irons away is Pine Valley Golf Club, perennially the top golf course in the nation as rated by Golf Digest magazine. "We don't mention Pine Valley around here," Mr. Bergstol said. "They do what they do and we will do what we do." But Mr. Bergstol was being disingenuous. To design Pine Hill, Mr. Bergstol hired top the golf-course consultant Tom Fazio, who also designed the short course at Pine Valley. Golfers shut out of private Pine Valley will no doubt flock to Pine Hill because of its proximity and design pedigree.
In addition, at the top of what was the ski hill, elevation 220 feet, which Mr. Bergstol claims is the highest point in South Jersey, he is building a glassed-in clubhouse and restaurant. "I'm hoping people will come just for the restaurant," he said. "You won't be able to beat the view of Philadelphia and the golf course."
Though Mr. Bergstol won't divulge the price of the land and the yearlong construction, it is safe to say it is in the tens of millions of dollars. He said he hoped to have it paid back in five to seven years, but that he hoped his reputation as a top-flight builder would last far longer. "The oldest golf courses are still around more than 100 years later," he said. "I want to make money, certainly, but I also want to create something great. The way I look at it, designing golf courses is art with a bulldozer."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Bergstol at the Pine Hill Golf Club, which he is building. When it opens in the fall, it will be one of four upscale public courses he will have developed in the state. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PINE BARRENS GOLF CLUB (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PINE BARRENS GOLF CLUB (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PINE HILL (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; WETLANDS; PINE HILL GOLF CLUB (PINE HILL, NJ) GOLF (91%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); BASKETBALL (77%); SKIING (69%); SKIING FACILITIES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); WETLANDS (60%); APPROVALS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BERGSTOL, ERIC; STRAUSS, ROBERT ERIC BERGSTOL (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



436 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Army Corps May Give Up Fire Island Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
SAYING New York had become "strangely silent" about a $52 million interim project to rebuild beaches and dunes in populated areas of Fire Island, a senior official of the United States Army Corps of Engineers said last week that the corps may soon drop the plan.
The official, Joseph R. Vietri, the deputy chief of planning for the New York regional office, said the corps had written to Governor George E. Pataki last week to make what he described as a final plea that the state take a position on whether the project should go forward. 
 "If we do not get a letter of support, we will terminate all work on the project, and we are very close to being at that point now," Mr. Vietri said. He added that he was "not optimistic" a letter of support would be received.
The project would involve pumping 7.47 million cubic yards of offshore sand -- an amount that would fill 830,000 cement trucks -- onto sections of Fire Island near or in summer communities.
It would be the most extensive and expensive such undertaking on the Island since the closing of a half-mile breach in the residential area of the Westhampton barrier island in the mid-1990's. That event, calamitous by homeowners' standards, was attributed to oceanfront groins that the corps erected in the 1960's and 70's.
Mr. Vietri said that four months after the close of public comment on the environmental study for the Fire Island project, the corps had still not received state position papers or a financial commitment. New York's share of the cost is to be 30 to 35 percent; the federal government would pay 65 to 70 percent. A portion of the state's share, probably more than $5 million, would be paid by local governments.
A spokesman for Mr. Pataki, Michael F. McKeon, declined to say whether the state still supported the project.
Albany's apparent reluctance to back the project, which state officials had initially asked the corps to design and carry out, seems to signal a distinct waning of political backing for a publicly financed program that could be construed as primarily benefiting private land owners.
Gerard Stoddard, president of the Fire Island Association, which represents property owners, has said in the past that Fire Island communities would pay up to half the local share. But costs would still be borne by other taxpayers.
The Fire Island property owners argue that 100,000 residents of mainland areas of the South Shore would be the primary beneficiaries of rebuilding Fire Island because the project would reduce coastal flooding. The corps's environmental study said 80 percent of the benefits would be to reduce mainland flooding.
Mr. Stoddard said the state's inaction reflected a struggle between the Department of Environmental Conservation, which favors erosion control, and the Department of State, which prefers a policy of retreat from oceanfront areas.
"What you see here is the State of New York playing Russian roulette with the South Shore in order to effect a philosophic change in the way we manage the coast," he said.
But environmental groups and others say such benefits will not occur. The Department of the Interior, the parent agency of the National Park Service, which operates the Fire Island National Seashore, has also filed strongly negative comments.
The department, which forbade the dumping of sand in large areas of the national seashore, said the corps's environmental study failed to justify the need for the project. It said shoreline stabilization would reduce breaches that are in fact beneficial to marine habitats.
Among its 10 objections, the department also said the study failed to comply with federal environmental law by ignoring reasonable alternatives, like preventing further development on Fire Island.
"It doesn't address a lot of the concerns and issues we have in protecting a national park," said Constantine Dillon, park superintendent of the national seashore. "Our position has been that the beach was never in danger, it just moves. And generally speaking, the best approach to shoreline management is to allow natural processes to occur."
New York State and the Interior Department must approve the interim project before work can begin.
The Fire Island project could be a precursor to a far larger restoration project for 81 miles of the South Shore, from Fire Island Inlet to Montauk Point. That project, first proposed nearly 40 years ago to protect the mainland from hurricane surges, among other objectives, is the subject of a corps study due in 2003.
Earlier this month, in another sign that prospects are dimming, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, toured the South Shore by helicopter with Mr. Vietri and other Army officials but refrained from commenting. Instead, Mr. Schumer backed the longer-range approach, saying erosion "clearly begs for a comprehensive solution that addresses the coastline as a whole, rather than in a piecemeal fashion."
Staff workers for Representative Rick A. Lazio, the Republican from Brightwaters, who owns a house on Fire Island, told a delegation from Ocean Beach before his nomination to run for the Senate that he had reservations about the interim project.
"He has backed away from it," said Natalie K. Rogers, the mayor of Ocean Beach. "They are concerned about people rebuilding." Such rebuilding could occur in places where houses destroyed or damaged by storms and erosion were rebuilt.
Mrs. Rogers, who called those fears unfounded, said village residents were imploring Governor Pataki to stand behind what she said were his promises to help Fire Island.
"It's time for him to step up to the plate," said Mrs. Rogers, who is also a member of the Fire Island Association. "The Army corps has worked like heck and done a very splendid job, and I think they are totally disgusted and discouraged."
But opponents said the corps's withdrawal from the interim plan would be welcomed.
The Environmental Defense Fund, the Nature Conservancy, the National Audubon Society and other groups have repeatedly attacked the interim plan as ill-conceived, environmentally damaging and likely to foster private development in newly protected oceanfront areas at public expense.
"The interim project as currently designed would encourage development and redevelopment in state-designated coastal erosion hazard areas," said James T. B. Tripp, the general counsel of the Environmental Defense Fund. "It makes absolutely no sense for the state and federal government to spend tens of millions of dollars on a project that would have that effect."
Some of the most pointed criticism has come Stephen P. Leatherman, director of the Laboratory for Coastal Research at Florida International University.
Dr. Leatherman, who has studied the South Shore, said the argument that the interim project would protect the mainland was fallacious. To say that beach nourishment on Fire Island would prevent flooding on the mainland is "clearly a stretch," he said.
"It's like building a dam with two gaping holes in it," he said, referring to the Fire Island Inlet and the Moriches Inlet, which bracket Fire Island.
In comments to the corps in February, Dr. Leatherman derided its assertion that the prevention of mainland flooding accounted for more than 80 percent of the benefits and thus justified the project.
"This is the first time I have ever seen the U.S. Corps of Engineers or any other agency try to base beach erosion abatement for an offshore barrier island on mainland flood protection," he said. "This is a novel and possibly precedent-setting approach of trying to show economic benefits and public good outside the project area in order to protect private real estate vulnerable to gradual, long-term and storm-induced beach erosion."
Mrs. Rogers said politicians were being cowed by the environmental groups. "They are all concerned about offending the conservationists," she said.
She called for the governor to reaffirm state support for the project. "The state, by it's silence, is killing it," she said.
Dr. Leatherman took another view: "These communities do everything they can to keep the public out, and now they have this huge spin project to benefit the private property owners at the cost of government. That's not going to wash."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Smith Point Park, where grass has been planted. The state has not committed itself to rebuilding beaches; the Interior Department opposes the plan. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS FIRE ISLAND ASSOCIATION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FIRE ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES ARMIES (91%); BEACHES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); EROSION (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); FLOODS & FLOODING (62%); EROSION CONTROL (60%); 

PERSON: VIETRI, JOSEPH; RATHER, JOHN EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



437 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: 513 Acres Are Bought in Putnam County;
State Adds To Parkland

 BODY:
A 513-acre strip of private land -- described by one conservationist as the mouth between the western jaws of Clarence Fahnestock State Park in Putnam County -- has been purchased by New York State, providing increased public access to the rocky outcroppings that offer broad views along the Hudson River.
Governor George E. Pataki announced the $2 million purchase on June 6. The funds are to come from the state's Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act. 
 "It is hilly, forested terrain stretching between Route 301 and Indian Brook Road in Garrison, N.Y.," said Erik Kulleseid, the state director of the Trust for Public Land. The trust, along with another not-for-profit conservation group, the Open Space Institute, arranged the deal between the state and a private family that owned the completely undeveloped property that juts into the 11,000-acre park.
In the early 1990's, plans to build about 50 private homes on the land fell through during the last recession.
"The area we are talking about is the western end of the park," Mr. Kulleseid said. "There are two long extensions, like jaws, and this property will sort of fill in the mouth." Besides the views from the outcroppings above the Hudson, Mr. Kulleseid said, "this is going to create even longer hiking trails through Fahnestock." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (57%); TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (57%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (56%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (57%); TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (57%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (56%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLARENCE FAHNESTOCK STATE PARK (NYS); NEW YORK STATE; HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS STATE PARKS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); HIKING (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



438 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK;
Where Startup Execs and Investors Go to Tango

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
THURSDAY morning went O.K. for David Butler at the Long Island Capital Forum. Thursday afternoon, though, was fantastic.
The difference was Alan Patricof, in particular the cautionary tone the legendary venture capitalist took in his keynote comments during lunch. Mr. Patricof, whose list of early-stage investments includes America Online and Home Depot, weighed in on the decline of dot-com fever. 
 The Park Avenue financier didn't quite say the bubble has burst. But he did offer a verbal cold shower to Internet entrepreneurs looking for the kind of investment money they had been used to getting.
"It's all going to be about bandwidth now," declared Mr. Patricof, whose investment portfolio is approximately $7 billion. "It's going to be about delivery. It's going to be about fundamentals."
Mr. Butler's Edgewood-based company, North American Internet Systems, supplies buildings with broadband Internet access -- in other words, bandwidth, delivery and fundamentals. Right after lunch Mr. Butler strode to the podium to tout his company and deliver his pitch for $12 million in investment capital.
"The timing really could not have been better," he said later with a smile. "I have 14 people I'm getting back to next week to set up meetings."
Those contacts were made at the Long Island Capital Forum, an annual event where entrepreneurs meet people with money to finance their dreams. Last year, the forum made more than $50 million worth of connections. For the sixth annual event, held on June 8 in Melville, 22 entrepreneurs paid $400 apiece to make an eight-minute pitch.
If keynote speakers at industry conferences are sometimes faulted for preaching to the choir, pap was not on the menu at the June 8 forum. Mr. Patricof assured his dot-com-studded audience that "we will never see dot-com market valuations this high again. It's history.
"Market valuations stopped representing the fundamentals," he continued, "and we had companies that had no profits, and no prospects for profits, with these extraordinary valuations."
Jeffrey L. Bass, founder and chairman of the event, and a partner at the Garden City accounting firm of Margolin, Winer & Evens, insisted that the dot-com financial train had not completely left the station. Most of the 22 exhibitors were dot-coms.
"Whenever you look at a hot market segment, you see companies that are succeeding and companies that are not," Mr. Bass said. Declining market valuations "really remind us of the importance of fundamentals, like getting good management into place. That's what investors increasingly want to see. And the companies we've selected to present today have that."
Certainly, investors expect entrepreneurs to be able to make a sound business case, something they haven't always done at the forum. In its first several years, ill-prepared entrepreneurs often rambled about obscure features and benefits, at times drowning their messages in technical jargon and amateurish presentations. This year, in contrast, presenters strode on and off the platform with desktop multimedia presentations and, in general, clockwork efficiency, thanks to vigilant forum officials.
"I guess I talked too long, because they herded me from the stage," sighed Daniel Yarosh, a biochemist winding up a pitch for $15 million for his Freeport company, AGI Dermatics.
The more professional presentations were no accident. The speakers had all had been offered presentation coaching by Mr. Bass and his colleagues on the board of the Long Island Venture Capital Group, which sponsors the event.
"This year, they were clearly better prepared for raising money," said Herman Fialkov, the much-admired dean of Long Island venture capitalists, who was among those trolling the event. "It was very professional."
Despite running over his time, Mr. Yarosh hoped that he would connect with a source of much-needed funding.
"It's been so expensive getting a product approved" by the Food and Drug Administration, said the biochemist, who founded AGI in 1985. "We need bridge or mezzanine financing. If we make a single solid financial contact today, we'll consider this event successful. My concern coming in was that the venture capitalists would send their e-commerce analysts and not be prepared to assess" other sectors, such as biotech.
One dot-com fund-seeker, David Bensol, got to deliver his pitch before lunch, at least. On his first day as chief executive of Bethpage-based Zydical.com, Mr. Bensol took the podium and asked for $6.5 million to build up what he described as an "Internet B2B health-care solutions portal" -- in other words, a web site that brings together sellers and buyers of medical products and services.
Afterward Mr. Bensol called the experience the "most terrifying thing" he had ever done. Avoiding the breathless predictions of geometrically expanding market and boundless revenues that accompanied earlier dot-com investment pitches, he instead played up business-to-business applications that are already integrated into today's economy. Mr. Bensol's message became the event's mantra: "Investors want to see experienced, quality management, and we have that."
"We're not looking to burn through millions of dollars in advertising," he said, as thousands of dot-coms have done. "We have a solid brick-and-mortar strategy that will earn investors money."
Pitching her dot-com business after lunch, Marlene Hahitti insisted that anyCloseout.com was not "just another Web site." Positioning her Manhattan-based Internet company as a way for manufacturers to lower the often substantial losses associated with excess inventory, she touted her own industry experience and the presence of former New York City comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman on her board. Her Web site, she emphasized, "currently has over $10 million worth of inventory."
Entrepreneurial fund-seekers were not alone experiencing stress. Financiers, for their part, said their roles were demanding as well, in part because they had to whittle entrepreneurial expectations down to size. "They're aching for last year's overvaluations," said Martin Boorstein, a partner in Walden Capital in Manhattan, nodding appreciatively at Mr. Patricof's lunchtime remarks. "They're still looking for the kind of multiples they got last year. But when they get any kind of funding, they'll be happy."
Manny Ratafia of Woodbridge, Conn., said that events such as the Long Island Capital Forum induced him to travel around the tri-state area in search of deals under a million dollars.
"Many venture capitalists have had so much success raising money that they need to invest larger amounts" to achieve desired payback, he said. They also need payback earlier than most start-ups are prepared to deliver. Consequently, many venture capitalists are turning away from the relatively small investments sought at events such as the Long Island Capital Forum. "That creates opportunity for people like me," said Mr. Ratafia, who specializes in smaller deals.
As the meeting began to wind down, an upbeat David Butler spotted Mr. Patricof ambling about the exhibition hall. He introduced himself and thanked the financier for his remarks on broadband technology.
"I told him what we did, and he seemed amused," Mr. Butler said, "but he didn't ask for a meeting. So it's up to us to give him a call."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey L. Bass, chairman of the Long Island Venture Capital Group, sponsors of a gathering of entrepreneurs and investors in Melville. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (58%); MARGOLIN WINER & EVENS LLP (52%); LONG ISLAND CAPITAL FORUM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND CAPITAL FORUM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES INTERNET & WWW (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); BROADBAND (72%); BONDS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (63%); 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN ALAN J PATRICOF (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



439 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Pataki as Legislator: Less Than a Team Player

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
FOR all his success at rising to the pinnacle of state government, George Elmer Pataki earned a reputation as a defiant outsider through much of his career as a lawmaker here.
Mr. Pataki, who became the first Republican governor in a generation after defeating Mario M. Cuomo, served in the Legislature for 10 years, first in the Assembly for eight years and then in the Senate for two. 
 In 1985, Mr. Pataki joined the Assembly, where members of the Republican minority have little power and are reduced to engaging in empty acts of defiance against the Democratic leaders. As a result, he accomplished little during his four terms.
But he is remembered for finding ways of irritating the chamber's Democratic leadership, most notably his decision in 1990 to stage a highly unusual filibuster to draw attention to the Republicans' stand against higher taxes and spending increases.
Not only was he an outsider in the Legislature, Mr. Pataki did not play a major role in the Westchester delegation.
Richard L. Brodsky, a Democratic assemblyman from the county, said he thinks that Mr. Pataki simply didn't enjoy being a member of the Legislature.
"George always had decent personal relationships with his colleagues," Mr. Brodsky said. "The two of us played basketball together. But I don't think he ever much trusted or liked participating in the legislative process."
Mr. Pataki did earn a good reputation among environmentalists, primarily because of his support for measures to protect water quality and open spaces.
But as a member of the minority, he did not sponsor any major environmental legislation that passed in that chamber.
Mr. Pataki left the Assembly in frustration in 1992, choosing to run for the State Senate.
He defeated the Republican incumbent, Senator Mary B. Goodhue, in a bitter primary, which led leaders in his own party to harbor deep resentment toward him.
As a member of the Republican majority in the Senate, Mr. Pataki is best known for defying the party's leadership to vote against the state budget in 1993 because it called for tax and spending increases.
His stance on such matters laid the foundation for his 1994 campaign against Mr. Cuomo, permitting Mr. Pataki to cast himself as a fiscal conservative who could save the state from an economic tailspin resulting from years of reckless spending.
But he was not exactly the ideological purist he made himself out to be.
When he defied the Republican leaders in the Senate and voted against the state budget in 1993, he said he was doing so because it included the tax and spending increases he so loathed.
But here's what he didn't say: a few weeks earlier, Mr. Pataki had persuaded the Senate leadership to include $500,000 in the budget to help finance pet projects in his district.
The budget passed without Mr. Pataki's support, as was widely expected, and Mr. Pataki, for his part, pointed to the pork it contained as evidence of the good work he had done on behalf of his constituents. RAYMOND HERNANDEZ
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George E. Pataki, when he was a member of the Legislature in 1986. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); BASKETBALL (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND GEORGE ELMER PATAKI (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



440 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 12; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: At Last, Strawberries Sweet and Lovely

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

DATELINE: CONNECTICUT

 BODY:
Strawberries are bred for their luscious flavor, not for shipping. They are delicate, juicy and perishable unlike their more rugged West Coast counterparts.
"You can throw a California berry at a brick wall and nothing happens," said Sandi Rose, who raises six varieties of strawberries on 10 acres in South Glastonbury. She explained that field-ripened berries have the best flavor because the natural sugars are allowed to develop to their peak. 
 Since the 17th century, when William Butler wrote "Doubtless God could have made a better berry but doubtless God never did," strawberries have been popular.
In 1998, 93.7 percent of American households surveyed reported eating fresh strawberries, according to the federal Department of Agriculture. Connecticut produces a tiny percentage of that. Norman Gaulthier, an associate professor in the Department of Plant Science at the University of Connecticut, said all the strawberry fields in the state total 1,000 acres or less. And those are berries that stay in Connecticut. Even those farms large enough to sell the fruit wholesale sell it to other local farmstands.
In Connecticut, strawberry season is short, generally tapering off by the first week in July, said Rick Macsuga of the State Department of Agriculture.
One strategy farmers use to prolong the season is planting different varieties to offer early, middle and late crops during the season.
John Lyman operates a pick-your-own fruit and farm market complex on 250 acres in Middlefield. He does not believe that most consumers notice the change from one type to another. "To the average person," Mr. Lyman said, "a strawberry is a strawberry, but using different varieties tends to stretch our season."
Donald Dzen runs the largest strawberry farm in the state, in South Windsor. He offers pick-your-own as well as fruit already picked retail and wholesale. With 40 acres under cultivation he knows strawberries well and he thinks the sweetest-tasting berries are not dark red but orange. He favors the variety called All Star, which several other Connecticut growers also offer. Some of the other varieties to be found this year include Kent, Cavendish, Delmarva, Jewel and Winona.
Strawberries, blueberries and raspberries combined contribute about $2.1 million directly to the state's economy, Mr. Macsuga said. (California, the largest strawberry producing state, valued their 1998 crop at $783 million.)
But Connecticut strawberries fulfill another economic function.
Mr. Lyman, who has cultivated the berries for 25 years, said, "Strawberries get the season started." He reports that pickers often load up on strawberries in the field, then go to the store to purchase other produce. And strawberries lure out-of-state visitors to Connecticut. Mrs. Rose said strawberry growers were "in the business of entertainment farming."
The berries also play a significant role in the tourism industry. More and more Connecticut farms are switching to pick-your-own since they find the cost of labor prohibitive. It is grueling stoop labor where harvesters must remain on their hands and knees for the work day. Most of the workers come from Mexico and return to the same farms year after year.
Very few local people are willing to do this kind of work. An exception is Terry Jones's farm. He began raising strawberries in the early 1960's when he was a high school student. Today he employs students who want to learn more about agriculture and the environment. They spend many hours on their hands and knees pulling weeds. Mr. Jones, a sixth-generation farmer, sees farms, and especially pick-your-own operations, as a "tremendous complement to the tourism industry."
Mr. Jones also feels passionate about farmland preservation. He says that when customers come to the farm to buy fruit, vegetables and plants, they are "voting with their consumer dollars to save some precious farm land."
Picking the fruit rather than buying it already picked does save money. The cost to consumers this year will be not much more than it was last year, perhaps 5 or 10 cents a pound more. Mr. Macsuga estimated the cost at $1 to $1.25 a pound to pick your own, and $3 to $4 to buy strawberries by the quart.
An early heat wave followed by below-normal temperature left the strawberries a bit confused, but they have adjusted and the strawberry season had a strong start this year. What could ruin the tender crop would be heavy rain. Last year was a washout for some farmers since heavy rains came in the middle of their season. For others, the rain came at the right time or they irrigated and their crop produced at record levels.
At the Glendale farm in Milford the plants suffered during the drought and they will not offer any strawberries this year.
Strawberry season is very intense for the farmers. George Hindinger, who farms six acres of berries in Hamden, said: "When they are ripe they have to be picked and not left a couple of days like blueberries. They have be picked and they have to be brought to market fast."
When the rush is over his family sells strawberry products such as fresh jam at their farm market.
For those worried about sampling unwashed berries, Mr. Gaulthier offers some reassurance. Connecticut's climate, he said, is mild so pesticides are used minimally and none as harvest time approaches.
Mrs. Rose warns consumers to avoid plastic wrapping and heat. "Use paper towels," she advises and "remember heat is the enemy of strawberries." She explained that modern frost-free refrigerators "zap the moisture out of strawberries so they must stay covered." Visitors go to Rose's Berry Farm for breakfast pancakes with strawberries from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Sundays only.
After the strawberry season comes to an end Mrs. Rose serves her pancakes topped with fresh blueberries.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Jones Farm in Shelton, Brendan Rooney and Sarah Rasmussen picking berries, above; Mary Ellen Hamilton tossing weeds into the back of a van, left. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ALL STAR TOYOTA (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STRAWBERRIES; FARM STANDS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STRAWBERRY FARMING (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (79%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (79%); CROP PRODUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FARM LABOR (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BOTANY (68%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (67%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, JOHN; POLK, NANCY JOHN LYMAN (60%); RICK MACSUGA (60%); TERRY JONES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



441 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey;
To Compete, Real Estate Companies Join Forces

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
GVA WILLIAMS, a Manhattan-based commercial real estate services company with a national and international reach, wanted a stronger presence just across the Hudson River in New Jersey.
And Associated Realty, a commercial brokerage company in Parsippany, was entrenched in the state but wanted to expand worldwide. 
 Six weeks ago, GVA Williams bought Associated Realty, which has been renamed GVA Williams New Jersey. The move enabled both companies to meet their goals to"better compete in the market and improve services to our clients in the region," said Michael T. Cohen, the president and chief executive of GVA Williams, the parent company.
The new company, which will operate from Associated's current office in Parsippany, will be headed by Eric Witmondt, who founded Associated nine years ago. His title will be chief executive, and David Simson, a former senior vice president in the New Jersey office of CB Richard Ellis, will be the company's president.
The deal reflects the continuing trend of consolidation in the commercial real estate brokerage industry, although at a less frenzied pace than a few years ago. The trend, many industry executives said, better meets the needs of global corporate clients who are demanding national and international management and brokerage capabilities.
Moreover, they add, as corporations farm out the real estate operations they once handled internally, they have also become unwilling to deal with different service providers in multiplying markets.
"After the downsizing and outsourcing by corporations in the late 80's and early 90's, strong brokerage companies became more important," said Stan Kurzweil, the president of the New Jersey chapter of the Society of Industrial and Office Realtors and a vice president in the Somerset office of Colliers Houston & Company, a brokerage company based in Teaneck. Corporations now want "a seamless delivery of service and a single source of contact," he said.
In time, many real estate executives predict, there will be a few large multinational companies that will dominate the market. Though smaller, entrepreneurial companies will survive as niche players, the pressure, they said, will be on larger regional companies to acquire or be acquired.
"The industry is evolving into a two-tier business with three or four or five national and international firms and a lot of local brokerages," said Donald P. Eisen, an executive managing director for the New York area at Cushman & Wakefield, the international real estate services company. "It's all about branding and harnessing resources, putting companies in the middle in a very difficult place to defend."
As a corollary, a very strong office market now exists in the 11 counties of northern and central New Jersey. Brokerage companies of all sizes are seeking to become important players in one of the largest markets in the nation, with 147 million square feet of office space and 724 million square feet of industrial space in the 11 counties. The area is also home to a couple of dozen Fortune 500 companies, many of which are expanding.
"The demand is there, and so are the larger transactions as corporations look for headquarters and full-building deals," said Thomas Giannone, one of two managers in the Edison office of the Julien J. Studley real estate services company. "Everyone is jockeying for these larger, more lucrative deals, which require a higher level of services."
Joining networks is one tactic being embraced by smaller, independent companies, including Alexander Summer L.L.C., the Garibaldi Group and most recently, the Schultz Organization. Generally, networks are confederations of independent companies in different geographic locations that refer business to one another and share the revenue generated. By linking, the companies can offer clients access to affiliates elsewhere in the nation or the world.
EARLIER this month, the Schultz Organization, a full-service commercial real estate company in Woodbridge that focuses on regional and institutional clients in New Jersey, joined TCN Real Estate Services of Dallas, a brokerage network with 58 offices worldwide.
Jonathan Schultz, the president of the 10-broker company, he had resisted being acquired by or merging with a larger company to retain his entrepreneurial edge. "There is a host of regional companies in New Jersey that want the services we provide, so there is still room for firms like us," Mr. Schultz said. "But this is all client-driven, and for our clients that want us to service their needs outside New Jersey, a network affords us a way to do that."
The 15-broker Garibaldi Group in Chatham, whose national clients include Bristol-Myers Squibb and Schering-Plough, is affiliated with Corfac International, a real estate brokerage network with 76 offices worldwide. Its headquarters are in Arlington, Va. "In today's global economy you're expected to have greater depth and reach," said James J. Garibaldi, the company's chief executive. Now, with many clients expanding west into Pennsylvania, he said his company was planning to open an office in Lehigh Valley, Pa.
Big multinational companies like Cushman & Wakefield and Insignia/ESG see the present as a good time to expand in the state.
"New Jersey has a large supply of office space and a diverse geography, but a highly fractured market in terms of service providers that over time will see more consolidation," said Patrick Murphy, the executive director of Insignia/ESG of New Jersey, in Saddle Brook. "Other than Cushman & Wakefield, no one else has an significant market share, so we see opportunities to grow."
He said that within the next two weeks his company planned to open a second office in New Brunswick and was in the process of forming an alliance with Buschman Partners, a Princeton concern with four brokers. Insignia/ESG, a publicly traded company, now has offices in 48 states and in 13 countries. The New Jersey office also has expanded its research and consulting services and by the middle of next year will increase its New Jersey staff to 50 from the current 35, Mr. Murphy said.
Mr. Eisen of Cushman & Wakefield, which has 143 offices in 44 countries, said his company sees "New Jersey as the high growth sector for the metropolitan area and intends to exploit our advantage in the state."
The plan, he said, is to recruit more people and to open a third office in the state, in Iselin, by this summer. The two existing offices now have 50 brokers, and the third office would add 12 to 15 more.
GVA Williams is not a newcomer to the New Jersey market. For the last decade the company has had an alliance with Jacobson, Goldfarb & Tanzman, which has 28 brokers in Woodbridge, but that affiliation has now ended. Stanley Simon, the company's chief executive, said: "We were in it for the New York connection, but the affiliation didn't have a great impact on our prosperity."
Mr. Simon said that he was not sure if his company would join another network. "We will rely on our experience as a dominant player in central New Jersey and expand services, going into retail as well as asset and property management."
Mr. Cohen of GVA Williams said the acquisition of Associated Realty was driven by his company's desire to grow in the New York metropolitan area, countering the popular belief that regional companies will get squeezed out.
The acquisition will offer clients uniform services and technological capabilities, important pluses, he said, since the markets in New York and New Jersey are so intertwined but difficult to achieve in an informal alliance. Since GVA Williams is a founding member of GVA Worldwide, a network of affiliates in 20 countries, the company can also offer one-stop services to clients with national and international requirements.
"Our vision is to expand strategically in this region by buying companies and building partnerships," Mr. Cohen said, noting that with Associated, "we bought a controlling interest and kept the partners on by giving them an equity stack." Mr. Witmondt and Mr. Simson said that they each had equity in the company, but they would not name the percentage.
Future plans include opening a second office in New Jersey, adding to its staff of 14 brokers, and expanding into Westchester, Long Island and Connecticut.
Mr. Witmondt said that by joining GVA Williams, his company gained a global reach "that would have taken us years to cultivate" as well as technological resources "that would have cost us millions of dollars to achieve."
Mr. Cohen conceded that in the race all brokerage companies are running, Williams's approach was conservative. "We are the tortoise, rather than the hare," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: GVA Williams of Manhattan recently bought Associated Realty of Parsippany and changed its name to GVA Williams New Jersey, headed by Eric Witmondt, right. With him is Michael T. Cohen, president of the parent company. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (90%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (90%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GVA WILLIAMS (CO); ASSOCIATED REALTY (PARSIPPANY, NJ) CBRE GROUP INC (90%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GVA WILLIAMS (CO); ASSOCIATED REALTY (PARSIPPANY, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (93%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (93%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



442 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 9; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Institute of Technology Promotes Its Provost

BYLINE: By ALLAN RICHTER 

 BODY:
Edward Guiliano, provost and vice president for academic affairs for the past five years at the New York Institute of Technology in Old Westbury, has been appointed president and chief executive.
Dr. Guiliano, 50, replaces Matthew Schure, who is leaving after 30 years to be president of the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine. 
 Dr. Guiliano, whose appointment is effective this fall, said he hoped to promote the school more visibly than his predecessor did.
The new president, who lives in New York City but was raised in Dix Hills, said he would step up efforts in Manhattan to develop more student internships and fund-raising opportunities. The school has a campus at Lincoln Center, but "we've been much more of a player on Long Island, and I think that has to change," he said.
Dr. Guiliano, who advocates greater use of technology in the classroom, said the school should capitalize on New York's position as a center of the global economy. Through Internet-based distance learning and other measures, he said, he wants to develop more programs with other countries, like the exchange of students and teachers that the school has with China. ALLAN RICHTER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; PHILADELPHIA COLLEGE OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (58%); NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; PHILADELPHIA COLLEGE OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS APPOINTMENTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); OSTEOPATHY (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); 

PERSON: GUILIANO, EDWARD; RICHTER, ALLAN; SCHURE, MATTHEW EDWARD GUILIANO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



443 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Nixon and Eisenhower

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Steven R. Weisman (Editorial Observer, June 11) cites as a factor in Richard M. Nixon's narrow loss in the 1960 presidential election his "proud refusal" to ask President Dwight D. Eisenhower to campaign for him.
In fact, Nixon wanted Eisenhower to campaign and would have asked him but for an emotional phone call by Mamie Eisenhower to Pat Nixon, in which Mrs. Eisenhower implored her to persuade Nixon not to ask the president to campaign with the caveat that "Ike must never know I called you." 
 This account from Nixon's papers is confirmed by my mother, Tricia Nixon, who was present when Mrs. Eisenhower called my grandmother to tell her that Eisenhower's heart was not up to the strain of campaigning.
Looking for reasons for Nixon's loss in 1960, Mr. Weisman might search economic history, which shows that Americans lost 800,000 jobs during an economic contraction that started in April 1960 and ended in December 1960 and which had a strong effect on an electorate with fresh memories of the deep 1958 recession.
 
CHRISTOPHER NIXON COX
New York, June 12, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1960 ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: COX, CHRISTOPHER NIXON; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); KENNEDY, JOHN FITZGERALD (1917-63); EISENHOWER, DWIGHT DAVID (1890-1969); EISENHOWER, MAMIE (1896-1979) RICHARD NIXON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



444 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Seema Kalia, Vedula Murti

 BODY:
Seema Kalia, a daughter of Jagan Nath Kalia of Toronto and the late Parkash Wati Kalia, was married yesterday to Vedula Rajanikanth Murti, a son of Santha Murti and Dr. Vedula N. Murti of Middletown, Pa. Dr. Satish Prakash, a Hindu priest, performed the ceremony at the Puck Building in New York.
Ms. Kalia, 33, is keeping her name. She is the senior director in New York for G&L Strategies, a consulting group advising companies on ways to improve their workplaces for women and minority employees. She graduated from Carleton University in Ottawa and received a law degree from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario. Her father retired as an agent at Re/Max Realty in Mississauga, Ontario. 
 Mr. Murti, 36, is a manager of a utilities hedge fund at SAC Capital Management in New York. He graduated cum laude from Pennsylvania State University, where his father is an assistant professor of economics and statistics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (70%); NAICS531320 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS (70%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (70%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (70%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: RE/MAX INTERNATIONAL INC (70%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); WOMEN WORKERS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); 

PERSON: KALIA, SEEMA; MURTI, VEDULA RAJANIKANTH SEEMA KALIA (92%); NATH KALIA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



445 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE -- BUZZ;
At U.N., Serving Iran's Food To Eager if Ignorant Diners

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY 

 BODY:
THE SETTING -- The bustling, steamy kitchen of the United Nations Delegates Dining Room, where a dozen people were taking a behind-the-scenes cooking class, part of a series sponsored by the New School University that brings students to top eating spots. This month, the United Nations is celebrating the food of Iran, so chickpea fritters, savory shish kebabs and Persian baklava swimming in rosewater were all on the menu. It was the first time, according to the United Nations, that the Islamic government of Iran has sponsored any official event outside the country.
THE BUZZ -- "I know Iran has been out of favor for some time, but taste buds are taste buds, and this food is fabulous," said Dick Scanlan, a writer who took the $80 class as a gift "from a friend who's a real foodie." Mr. Scanlan wondered if perhaps Iran, currently liberalizing, had embarked on some "kinder, gentler P.R. campaign" in which fine Persian cuisine is just the opening salvo. 
 "What's next?" he asked. "Commercials with young honeymooners in bikinis running through the streets of Tehran?"
"Yeah, right," said Alan Effron, a lawyer eating flatbread with spinach-yogurt dip. "Iran is for lovers."
The class began with Iranian cocktails, from which alcohol is banned by Islamic law. Juices of pomegranates, oranges and limes were offered, along with a sour yogurt-milk concoction that Lou Piuggi, the United Nations executive chef and teacher for a day, called "an acquired taste." Nobody acquired it.
Then Mr. Piuggi began cooking, with the able assistance of Ata Samii, an Iranian caterer who has lived in New York for more than 30 years.
Iranian cuisine, it turns out, is not so different from other Middle Eastern food, but it has a subtlety derived from ingredients like saffron, walnuts and rosewater. The chicken and beef shish kebabs were infused with herbs and cooked on swordlike skewers. Tarragon and mint were served to cleanse the palate.
"It's wonderful," said Rhonda Fingerman at the sit-down lunch after class, which she took as part of a season of self-imposed unemployment. "This is my summer of food and wine," Ms. Fingerman said. "This is my summer of Rhonda."
Nearby, Rhona Newman ate baklava with her friend Elaine Katz. "To understand food is to understand culture," Ms. Newman said. "We're expanding our horizons."
Ms. Katz said she wanted to have an Iranian dinner party "with belly dancers and everything."
Would that include wearing the traditional chador? "You mean those big black things?" she asked. "Sure. Then I wouldn't even need makeup." DAVID KIRBY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Piuggi, executive chef, was teacher for a day. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); NEW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); NEW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); RELIGION (70%); WRITERS (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); DANCERS (50%); 

PERSON: KIRBY, DAVID RHONDA FINGERMAN (71%); DICK SCANLAN (64%); ELAINE KATZ (60%); RHONA NEWMAN (60%); LOU PIUGGI (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



446 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2193 words

HEADLINE: Eve's Revenge, The Python's Sorrow

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS 

 BODY:
ONCE, snakeskin had the fashion cachet of a prison tattoo. Urban cowboys and rockers wore it. So did creeps. Snakeskin? Think Joey Buttafuoco's signature boots.
What a difference a little marketing makes. Designers satisfied this year's cash-rich consumers by giving a makeover to python, skin taken from Asian snakes laced with primeval, netlike designs. Yves Saint Laurent sold out its line of $9,250 python trench coats. Jimmy Choo offered $550 python slides in traffic-stopping bright green. A pink python jacket from Chanel, with white chiffon trim and matching skirt, retailed at $8,455. It sold out, too. 
 "Python did incredibly well," said Mariah Chase, a Jimmy Choo spokeswoman. "It was all about luxury and exoticism. It was a maximalism kind of thing."
For fashion houses, the metamorphosis of python from ruffian chic to Park Avenue popularity has been an irrefutable hit. But among conservationists, the snake's makeover has been ringing alarms. Does it signal a new round of consumers wearing wildlife products with light-headed nonchalance? If so, which animals will be next? And what about those snakes? In an era of shrinking habitat, are there really enough pythons out there to outfit every acquisitive fashion princess?
Having a python cellphone cover may be unmistakably hip, but it is an image oddly disconnected from the product's origins. A world away from the cubicles where fashion magazine pages are designed, this year's python craze is supplied by an international industry that snatches hundreds of thousands of wild pythons from jungles each year, kills them and ships their skins to European and Asian garment factories, all the while avoiding the notoriety that has dogged other commercial wildlife harvests, from the seal hunters of Newfoundland to the whalers of Japan.
The python hunt is legal, as is the export of the skins. But conservationists say that no one is certain whether the most heavily traded species, reticulated and blood pythons, both agents of rat control in some of the world's poorest nations, can sustain their numbers under the sort of hunting that keeps department stores stocked.
Pythons are creatures virtually without advocates. Many details of their lives are unknown.
"For most of these snakes, there is absolutely no information on what is happening with the hunts or how the species are faring," said Dr. John Thorbjarnarson, a herpetologist with the Wildlife Conservation Society, headquartered at the Bronx Zoo. "That is really a frightening thing." Pythons are nonvenomous tropical predators that strike from hiding and then twist their bodies around their prey, flexing their hold until the animal suffocates. The dead victim is swallowed headfirst. Sated pythons slither off to digest.
Since 1975, trade in these reptiles has been subject to guidelines set by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, or Cites, a wildlife commerce treaty signed by 150 nations, which require each country to establish and supervise a conservation policy. According to the convention, more than 10 million pythons have been reported taken from the wild in the last 15 years.
The snakes are harvested from a long list of nations, including Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam. But the unequivocal export leader is Indonesia, where harvesting pythons is a highly organized business. From 1985 to 1998, the last year for which data are available, Indonesia exported more than 4.5 million pythons, either skinned or alive.
"It is a huge industry, but it keeps to itself," said Kamuran Tepedelen, who owns Bushmaster Reptiles, a Boulder, Colo.-based company that employs Indonesian snake catchers for the pet trade.
Spokeswomen for four fashion houses that use python said they had no idea where the skins come from, a response evidently little different from that of consumers. "It's very rare, honestly, that we think about where they come from, and what the ecological impact might be," Ms. Chase of Jimmy Choo said.
The most coveted species in the exotic leather trade is the reticulated python, arguably the largest snake in the world. Reticulated pythons are the anacondas of Asia, having been reported at lengths of more than 30 feet, although 10- to 17-foot snakes are typical. They feed on a variety of vertebrates, including rats, ducks, chickens, porcupines, pigs and monkeys. In rare instances the largest specimens have attacked humans.
Each year from 1985 to 1998, between 305,000 and 834,000 reticulated pythons were reported harvested worldwide; a large portion came from Indonesia. Actual trade is believed to be larger because of smuggling. Much of the rest of the trade is in skins from blood pythons, fat-bodied snakes that reach maximum lengths of about seven feet. Once considered uncommon, blood pythons have benefited in recent years as vast tracts of rain forest have given way to oil palm plantations. These new habitats -- replete with brush piles and palm fruit -- support an extraordinary density of rats.
Experts say the rats' abundance has allowed blood pythons, which feed on them, to colonize the plantations. And as their numbers have increased, the snakes have attracted skin hunters. In 1985, 32,000 blood pythons were exported worldwide. In 1998, reported shipments reached 127,000.
To convert pythons into profits, Indonesia's snake-harvesting industry relies on an army of catchers. Most are villagers who simply encounter a snake and pounce on it, selling it later for serendipitous cash. Others are more systematic and take regular walks through the palm plantations, peering into brush piles and plucking blood pythons from hiding places. A few ambitious hunters work in groups, settings nets, traps and baited hooks for the larger reticulated pythons. Captured snakes are stored in canvas bags and sold to primitive skinning plants. What happens next is unsightly, although industry representatives and scientists say it is no more unsettling than what occurs in meat-packing houses around the world.
The pythons are dumped from their bags and killed by suffocation or mallet blows. The carcasses are hung by their heads and inflated with water. A skinner then slits open the carcass, snips out the guts and scrapes away the meat. Depending on the market, some of the meat ends up being eaten, and some is used as livestock feed or discarded. In some cases python gall bladders are sold for use in traditional Chinese medicine. But the main product is the skin, which is pegged, dried and sent to tanneries. Most tanned skins are exported to Europe, where they are converted into all manner of clothing and accessories.
The industry employs about 174,200 people, including everyone from skinners to international sales agents, according to the Indonesian Reptile and Amphibian Trade Association, which represents licensed tanneries and reptile-product exporters. About 150,000 of the workers are snake catchers, most of them in persistently poor regions. They are paid a small sum for each snake.
"I think the reality is that for these Indonesian villages, the snakes are an important economic resource," said Dr. Richard Shine, a University of Sydney herpetologist who toured Indonesian skinning plants for python studies.
The industry has existed for decades, subject to the capricious moods of the fashion industry and its equally capricious customers. But some conservationists say the skins' recent appearance on the runways is tied as much to the fine points of international trade law as to the vagaries of taste.
Six years ago, the endangered species convention adopted rules requiring tags and permits for crocodilian products shipped across international borders. These rules, which did not affect snakes directly, complicated shipments for products from certain reptiles -- crocodiles, alligators and caimans -- often causing border delays or seizures, a potential catastrophe for retailers expecting seasonal merchandise.
Since python skins are not covered by the tagging rules, they cross borders with comparative ease. Experts say this characteristic made them attractive when designers began seeking exotic leather for consumers flush with cash.
"Snakeskins are not nearly as complicated to import and export," said Craig Hoover, of Traffic-North America, the trade monitoring arm of the World Wildlife Fund. "They just don't run into the same possibilities of delays."
Accordingly, wildlife inspectors say they have noticed a significant increase in the number of snakeskin products entering the United States. "From an industry's standpoint I guess I can understand it," said Sheila Einsweiler, a senior inspector for the Fish and Wildlife Service. "It's a little easier to move snakeskins around."
As more skins entered the country and began to bear brand-name labels, python's sudden popularity invigorated a long-running debate among scientists about the species' sustainability. Herpetologists are particularly worried about reticulated pythons, which do not seem to thrive in plantations, and whose skins bear the netlike pattern most desired by designers.
"Reticulated pythons are giant snakes, remarkable creatures, but they are not adequately protected, and their trade is barely regulated," said Peter Brazaitis, a herpetologist and the former curator of animals at the Central Park Wildlife Center. "Five years from now, if python fashion keeps going, how many of them will be left?"
The answers are not clear. Under endangered species trade rules, exporting countries must base their hunts on scientific studies and limit harvests "to maintain the species throughout its range and at a level consistent with its role in the ecosystem in which it occurs." But little field research has been done on Asian pythons. Wildlife experts say there is almost no way of knowing whether the convention's standards are being met and whether the various species, or their roles in the ecosystem, are being preserved.
Some studies are not encouraging. A 1990 report done for the convention's secretariat noted that for reticulated pythons, "there is reasonable evidence for a significant decline in Bangladesh, and the species is reported to be depleted locally over much of the remainder of the range, including Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar and the Philippines."
But since then, opinions on the hunt's impact have varied. Mr. Tepedelen, of Bushmaster Reptiles, said harvests are sustainable because catchers generally do not kill immature reptiles, meaning most of those killed have already been allowed to lay clutches of eggs and propagate the species.
"The species that are in trade are just booming," he said.
Dr. Shine, the Australian herpetologist and one of the few scientists who have studied the harvest of reticulated pythons, said he has been surprised by the species's resilience. "Reticulated pythons have the life history of a garter snake," he said. "They grow fast, mature quickly and have a lot of eggs in each clutch. As a species, it can withstand a fair bit of pressure."
In spite of these characteristics, the species has declined in some areas. "It's not an issue about extinction, but there is no doubt that the commercial trade is reducing the numbers," Dr. Shine said.
The Indonesian reptile traders' organization has been working with field researchers and the Indonesian government to ensure that the hunt is sustainable. But field biologists caution that sustainable or not, it may have public health consequences. That is because the snakes are being removed from an ecosystem heavily populated with rats.
While harvesting pythons may generate profits locally, some scientists say, they leave behind rats, which carries social costs, including increases in disease and damage to crops. "I think we have to ask ourselves, what is the value of a python?" said Mr. Brazaitis. "Is it as a pair of expensive pants? Or is it as a means to check exploding rat populations in nations where communicable diseases are rampant?"
This month, the knockoff-bag merchants were selling fake python clutches and baguettes on the sidewalks outside Bloomingdale's, a sure sign the snakeskin craze has gone down-market and is nearing its end. And even though python products remained in some display windows throughout the city, a salesman at the Original Leather Store, which operates six boutiques in Manhattan, was pronouncing the snake dead.
"I'm so sick of it," he said, pointing toward a pair of python pants on display overhead, rich maroon hip-huggers, the remains of a mid-size reticulated python. The salesman rolled his eyes and sighed. "It's going to be very dated, very fast," he said. "I think it's the acid wash of 2000."
Whether sinking snakeskin sales in New York City will mean more pythons in the wild is an open question. The skins remain popular in Europe, and snakeskin boots are likely to maintain their hold over would-be rock stars and barroom cowboys.
But in New York, at least, pythons may soon be getting a reprieve.
"I've heard," the salesman said, "that in the fall, it's ostrich that will be hot."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Snakeskin for the well-heeled woman, who may or may not be aware that it all began on the back of a legless reptile. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); Snakeskin on Nicolas Cage, in the role of a killer in "Wild at Heart." (Photofest)(pg. 4); The slim, scaley look, embodied in a python trench coat from Yves Saint Laurent. (Corina Lecca)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS & COATS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YVES ST LAURENT GROUPE SCA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SNAKES; LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS; HUNTING AND TRAPPING REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SPORT HUNTING (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (72%); APPAREL MFG (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); SMUGGLING (67%); ZOOLOGY (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); 

PERSON: CHIVERS, C J NICOLAS CAGE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



447 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Latest Style For Pruning Companies Lop the Top

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
FIRING workers, like capital punishment, is applauded in America. Just the announcement of a mass downsizing in the mid-1990's would raise a company's stock price. Now that happens when a chief executive's head rolls. A faltering company seems somehow cleansed.
We even have a self-appointed scorekeeper: Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a Chicago firm that helps companies find new jobs for workers they lay off. As a sideline, Challenger in the 1990's began tracking layoff announcements and issuing grim monthly tallies. In the current robust economy, mass layoffs are way down and out of fashion. Shedding the chief executive is increasingly popular, and Challenger began last August to keep this new score. 
 The total through last Thursday was 706 chiefs of publicly owned companies, an average of 15 a week. Some retired in the usual way or jumped to better jobs, but the vast majority were dismissed. Durk I. Jager's ouster from Procter & Gamble on June 8 was departure No. 36 this month, and the toll has since risen to 48.
More formal studies confirm the trend. One found that 40 percent of new chief executives lose their jobs within 18 months. Another, by Rakesh Khurana at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, found that for the same poor performance, a chief executive was three times as likely to be fired in 1996 than in 1985.
"We are asking them to pitch no-hitters every day," said John A. Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray. The game, in sum, rides entirely on the pitcher, not on the other players or on field-tested team strategies. As Peter Cappelli, a management professor at the Wharton School, put it: "We are substituting people for strategy. Instead of working out plans and goals, directors look at another company that is doing what they think they want to do, and they hire an executive from that company and hope" he will do the same for them.
Failure is defined as two or three quarters in which profits fail to rise at a 15 percent annual rate, and the stock price fails to keep up with the expectations of the bull market. That was the background music for Mr. Jager's departure. Or a new chief executive fails to bring about a merger or reorganization. Four out of five directors expect their chief executives to lead in this direction, according to surveys by the National Association of Corporate Directors.
Hold the tears, of course. Ordinary workers, even middle managers, are lucky if they walk away from a downsizing with enough in savings and severance to support their families for a year. The chief executives depart with enough not only for their families but their descendants for several generations. Knowing the high risk of being fired, they negotiate huge pay and severance packages, granted by the very directors who will later do the firing.
Just 25 years ago, a typical American chief executive was deeply entrenched. His cronies dominated the board, his company made money despite its inefficiencies and he resisted change. The rise of corporate raiders and leveraged buyouts brought an end to such inertia, and the increasingly powerful financial markets took control of most boards; today, directors are more likely than not to speak for shareholders.
A decade ago, if a big institutional shareholder like a pension or mutual fund did not like management, it sold the stock. Now it presses the board to drop the chief executive. Instead of being deeply rooted, the chief sways on a limb.
Is that an improvement? Probably, said Mr. Cappelli -- provided that directors become more committed, participate in strategic planning and shift more management authority to lower levels. Above all, they must be patient, giving the chief executive time to carry out a strategy, even if profits and the stock price do not quickly respond. The Eaton Corporation behaved this way, according to Stephen R. Hardis, who will retire next month at 65 after five years as chief executive. "My predecessor owned the board," he said. "My board owned me. But they always gave me a lot of support."
New technologies and product innovation force companies today into constant, risky change. Eaton makes auto and truck parts and transmissions, and in the Hardis years, the product line was redesigned to add electronic controls. The process involved the kind of staff upheaval that might have brought down a chief elsewhere. "You cannot change a company without changing people," Mr. Hardis said.
He wonders, then, whether Mr. Jager, who led Procter & Gamble for just 17 months, lacked skills, or the board lacked patience. "When I read about Jager, I wondered if it would make other chief executives more risk averse," he said "If you have to fundamentally reshape a business, it takes time, and makes people unhappy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: Announced departures of chief executives at American public companies.
 
Chart shows number of departures at American public companies
 
*Through June 14
 
(Source: Challenger, Gray & Christmas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAYOFFS (91%); TRENDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISMISSALS (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (79%); CROP & SOIL SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (74%); BASEBALL (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); 

PERSON: DURK I JAGER (80%); STEPHEN R HARDIS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



448 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: AT THE GATE;
Testing Pizzas' Pizazz As Maker Hits Market

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
PHILLY cheese steak. Thai chicken with roasted peanuts and ginger sauce.
Purists may cringe, but these are the kinds of toppings that California Pizza Kitchen sprinkles over its paper-thin crusts, to the delight of new-wave pizza fans in 21 states. 
 But while the designer pies have
won a following, the question of whether investors will develop a similar taste will be answered only in July, when the chain, based in Los Angeles, is expected to go public.
As of Friday, the company had not set a price for its offering or announced how many shares would be available. According to its prospectus, it wants to use the proceeds to pay back about $40 million in bank debt and to buy back some of its $45.4 million of preferred stock.
The chain has had a mixed record since a pair of lawyers, Larry S. Flax and Richard L. Rosenfield, founded it 15 years ago. During its first seven years, it had a relatively low-key growth plan, gradually opening 23 restaurants. But in 1992, Pepsico bought a controlling interest, and California Pizza binged, opening 60 outlets in five years.
Analysts say that under Pepsico's stewardship, the chain showed little aptitude for picking viable locations or maintaining quality. In 1996, sales actually declined at restaurants open at least a year. That year, Pepsico decided to focus on its soft-drink and snacks businesses, and in 1997 Bruckmann, Rosser, Sherrill & Company, a New York investment firm, bought a 67.4 percent stake, which is now down to 39.5 percent. The founders remain co-chairmen.
After Pepsico's departure, the company closed 16 of the 60 restaurants it built in its fast-expansion days. It has since followed a conservative growth plan and now has 100 restaurants to its name, 74 of them company-owned. And it has upgraded food quality while keeping high service standards, analysts said.
California Pizza is part of what the industry calls the casual-dining category -- a segment whose sales are expected to grow 8.7 percent a year over the next five years, according to Technomic, a Chicago consulting firm, versus just 5.7 percent for the overall industry.
Some of California Pizza's recent figures have been strong. Sales at company-owned restaurants grew 6.1 percent in 1998, 4.1 percent in 1999 and 6.8 percent during the first three months of 2000. That compares with just 0.6 percent in 1997.
The numbers impress Ron Paul, president of Technomic, because the casual-dining segment considers annual growth of 2 to 3 percent as "pretty good." He also likes that the average check for California Pizza customers is just $10.50; he thinks casual-dining customers see $10-and-under bills as good value.
Of course, this is not the hottest market in which to sell restaurant shares. The Standard & Poor's restaurants index is down 21 percent for the year through Friday. And the new-issue market itself is rife with postponements and cancellations.
California Pizza reported total debt of $40.1 million on April 2. Last year, earnings fell 48.6 percent, to $5.4 million, while overall revenue grew 7.2 percent, to $179.2 million.
While it is evident that premium pizza is not merely a fad, Phil Lempert, the editor of the Lempert Report, an industry newsletter in Santa Monica, Calif., said California Pizza would have to spend heavily on advertising to remind the public that it also has other items on its menu.
Others, like Randall Hiatt, a consultant at Fessel International in Irvine, Calif., question whether California Pizza can expand effectively outside its Western base. Indeed, he wonders if the chain is now growing too slowly. While investors have punished restaurant companies that expanded too quickly in the mid-1990's, he thinks they are now rewarding those that are pursuing sustained growth, like the Cheesecake Factory and P. F. Chang's China Bistro, whose numbers of outlets are growing at least 15 to 20 percent annually.
California Pizza has opened only 10 company-owned restaurants since the beginning of 1998; four are under construction. "I don't think the market will sustain low growth in this industry," Mr. Hiatt said. "I think the company is going to have to expand geographically." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (92%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (92%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN INC (92%); PEPSICO INC (90%); BRUCKMANN ROSSER SHERRILL & CO LLC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD AND COOKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RESTAURANTS (90%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); TRENDS (75%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (70%); SOFT DRINKS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RON PAUL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



449 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Harvard Business School And the Makings of a President

BYLINE: By JOHN SOLOMON; John Solomon, a writer in Manhattan, is a member of the Harvard Business School class of 1991.

 BODY:
ON their first day at Harvard Business School, a dean told the students of the class of 1975 that what they would learn there would prepare them less for the job they would take immediately after graduation than the job they would have in 25 years.
A quarter of a century later, one of those students is up for a big management position that has never been filled by someone with such preparation. If he gets the job, George W. Bush would be the first president with a master's degree in business administration. 
 And while it is not a part of his biography that he often discusses, Mr. Bush is in many ways the archetypal Harvard Business School-trained manager. As someone who went through the same training, 16 years after Mr. Bush, I find it striking how his style -- generalist, big picture, highly delegative -- is almost exactly in line with the management approach taught at Harvard.
But is that a good thing? Is a Harvard M.B.A. appropriate training for the presidency? And how much of George W. Bush, presidential candidate, is really a reflection of his Harvard years?
In his autobiography, "A Charge To Keep" (William Morrow & Company, 1999), Mr. Bush mentions his time at Harvard only briefly, calling it "a turning point for me" that taught "the principles of capital, how it is accumulated, risked, spent, managed."
Classmates and professors say that while the raw elements of Bush management were in place when he arrived at Harvard, business school had a significant role in melding his style.
They remember a relaxed attitude and an unusual confidence that stood out even in a class of some of America's most confident. Alumni scoff at the suggestion that Mr. Bush is not smart enough to be president -- though, of course, that is not necessarily an impartial view, given that his grades fell in the middle of the bell curve, along with most of theirs.
Mr. Bush was known as a quick study -- not a very deep thinker, but an efficient one. In class, he was more of a listener than a participant. (That may be why Mr. Bush left Harvard without having substantially improved his extemporaneous speaking abilities, though it also may be that heredity ultimately trumps business school.)
Instead, he distinguished himself more in team-oriented activities. Whether in the campuswide business simulation game or on the intramural basketball court, he was often the consensus choice to run things.
"George's leadership was not based on raw brain power," recalled Mitch Kurz, a classmate who now runs his own marketing consulting firm in Norwalk, Conn. "He had an intangible quality about him, that there wasn't a problem that couldn't be solved -- not necessarily by him, but somehow."
IN 92 years of training presidents, Harvard Business School has never trained a president of the United States. Indeed, the M.B.A. has not been widely viewed as proper preparation for a career in politics, in part because of the management failings of one of the school's best and brightest: Robert S. McNamara, the former secretary of defense. But Mr. McNamara's quantitatively driven analytical style, which led him astray in Vietnam, is actually antithetical to the more broad-based, qualitative general management taught by Harvard.
There is also a misperception -- even among many students in the school -- that Harvard's management training is applicable solely to business. It is true that a high percentage of the case studies used in its courses are corporate situations. And most students come from the private sector and return there upon graduation. But Harvard Business School training is much more about process than content; its problem-solving and decision-making methodology is easily transferable to the public sector.
In Mr. Bush's class, that point was made presciently during discussion of one of the very rare public-sector case studies, on the paper flow in the office of Edward M. Kennedy, then as now a senator from Massachusetts. Classmates said that when a student challenged the case's relevance to a business degree, the professor responded: Who knows? Someone in the class could end up as president of the United States.
From his seat in the top row, Mr. Bush -- often relied upon for humor -- raised his arms over his head in a Nixonesque victory gesture.
M.B.A.'s now in elective politics say that course work at business school -- including marketing, finance, accounting and political economy -- has become as relevant to governing as any other academic training, if not more so.
"The president," said Representative Chet Edwards, a Texas Democrat who graduated from the school in 1981, "is the manager of the largest and most powerful corporation in the world." Of course, the public sector is different: there, popularity is a more important performance criterion than profitability, and checks and balances are not financial terms but constraints on executive authority.
From the start, Mr. Bush made a distinct impression on Section C, the group of 84 students with whom he would go through his first year of course work.
"I was sitting in the front row, and I heard this strange noise coming from up behind me," Mr. Kurz recalled. "I remember thinking, 'What the heck is that?' I turned around and there was George spitting tobacco juice into a cup."
Under the school's forced grading curve, about 5 percent of the 800 or so students in each class will be asked to leave after the first year. Early on, almost everyone thinks it might be him or her. "Plenty of students were scared out of their wits when they got there," said Rudy Winston, who taught Human Behavior and Organization to Section C that year.
But not Mr. Bush, who was 27 and had just completed his service in the Air National Guard when he arrived at Harvard. Mr. Winston remembers entering the class the first day and seeing Mr. Bush flying paper airplanes around the room. "George felt that this environment was something he could handle," Mr. Winston said.
In each of the three daily, 80-minute classes at the school, one student is "cold called" to "open" with a five-minute action plan and analysis of a case study, a well-researched narrative of a real-life situation seen through an executive's eyes. A free-for-all Socratic discussion follows, with classmates either building upon or tearing apart the presentation. The stakes are high, because class participation can count for up to 50 percent of the grade -- not to mention the thrice-daily opportunity to embarrass yourself in front of your peers.
"The case method relentlessly trains you come up with solutions to problems," said Michael E. Porter, the Christensen Professor of Business Administration, whose first teaching assignment at Harvard was Mr. Bush's Section C class.
The back row of the amphitheater-style classroom is called the Sky Deck, and "if the seating chart is an allegory, then George was the perfect Sky Decker," said Charles Braxton, a section mate who is now an energy company executive in Charlotte, N.C. "He wanted to take it all in, hear everybody and pick his spot to make a big-picture comment."
It was in team activities that Mr. Bush asserted himself. In the three-day, campuswide business simulation game, Section C elected Mr. Bush one of six team presidents. His 15-person "company" did not win, but Mr. Porter, the group's faculty supervisor, told the class that it worked best together and would have had the best long-term results.
"He was not a star academic performer here," said Mr. Porter, now an economic policy adviser to the Bush campaign. "But he was very good at getting along with people and getting things done."
There was more evidence of those abilities in the highly competitive intramural basketball league. Despite hoop skills that one teammate described as "mediocre at best," Mr. Bush, at point guard, took control of a squad of more talented players.
Jim Schroer, a 6-foot-5 former college basketball standout, acknowledged having been the toughest management challenge. "I was a prima donna. I know the rest of the guys appreciated that George was able to get through to me," said Mr. Schroer, now vice president of global marketing at the Ford Motor Company. "Not too many people in my life were able to whip me into shape."
By the mid-70's, distrust of the cold certitude of the McNamara style -- expert-oriented management by numbers -- put a premium on the consensus-building style of someone like Mr. Bush.
"Everyone was keenly aware that the model of putting the expert -- the smartest guy -- in charge was changing," Mr. Braxton recalled. "George was not leading from technical expertise. He was of the new model that was not afraid of teamwork and of not knowing the answer to everything."
MR. BUSH has not yet announced if he will attend the 25th reunion of his Harvard Business School class in late September, in the heat of the presidential campaign. If he does, he can be assured his classmates will be attentive to his comments during planned reunion classes like "Business and Politics Along the Technological Frontier" and "National Economies in the Global Village."
"We listened to him 25 years ago," Mr. Kurz joked. "But the fact that he could be the leader of the free world does give him a little more credibility."
Peter Gebhard, another Section C student who now runs a metal-finishing company in Providence, R.I., even has a possible campaign slogan ready: "The lawyers and the generals have had their chance. Why not give an M.B.A. a shot?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush in a photograph from the 1975 yearbook of the Harvard Business School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORROW & CO INC (68%); HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: HARVARD LAW SCHOOL; LEGAL PROFESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); BASKETBALL (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



450 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
A Peek at Your Credit Scorecard

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
THINK of the numbers that matter most when you apply for credit. You know your date of birth, Social Security number and annual income well enough, and you may know just how much money you have in the bank. But the make-or-break figure is one that lenders are privy to but that you have probably never seen: your credit score.
The veil is lifting from this mysterious metric, in response to pressure by consumer groups, by legislation before Congress and by loan-service Web sites like E-Loan that were eager to spill the beans to customers. Fair, Isaac, the San Rafael, Calif., company that pioneered credit scoring 40 years ago and dominates the field today, has published on its own Web site, www.fairisaac.com, its general recipe for scoring consumer credit. 
 The factors considered are payment history (35 percent of the overall score); amounts and types of outstanding debt (30 percent); length of credit history (15 percent); amount of new credit recently sought or gained (10 percent); and types of credit in use (10 percent). Points are added to yield a score that ranges from the 300's to the 900's -- the higher, the better.
In large part, Fair, Isaac's recipe confirms popular notions of what good credit means: that people who borrow moderately and pay on time can expect to score better than those who borrow to the limit or not at all, or those who chronically pay late. But some idiosyncrasies and potential pitfalls revealed in the scoring system may surprise consumers.
Moves to remove credit blemishes, for example, may not help, or may even backfire. Closing an account that you once paid late won't remove it from consideration. And say you think you are carrying too much debt on too many credit cards, so you get a loan from a personal finance company to consolidate the debt into a single, easier-to manage payment. A good move? Not for your credit score: finance-company loans are considered a greater sign of risk than owing the same amount on credit cards. On top of that, if you consolidate the debt into one loan and close the credit card accounts, you have reduced the credit available to you without reducing the amount you owe, which hurts your score.
Consider a consumer who always pays her credit card balances in full each month. Her credit scores will rise, based on zero card debt, right? Wrong. The scoring system generally picks up the balances on her most recent statements -- before she has paid them. So if she racks up a lot of charges each month -- say, to earn bonuses like airline miles -- it is possible that her score will be pulled down a bit by what the formula considers heavy debt relative to her credit limit, even if she has never missed a payment.
Even shopping aggressively online for the best rate on a new loan can lower your score. Each time you enter personal information like your income and Social Security number on a Web site's form, it may be reported to credit bureaus as a credit inquiry. Too many credit inquiries will count against you, though Fair, Isaac said it had taken steps to collapse multiple inquiries for a particular loan over a short period into a single hit for scoring purposes.
"Inquiries are not enough to make or break someone's score," said Cheri St. John, a senior vice president of Fair, Isaac, who oversees its credit bureau scoring services unit. Still, she advises, "only shop for and accept the credit you need."
For years, consumers setting out to establish credit were told that more credit is better, a myth "that took a while to dispel," Ms. St. John said. In fact, getting too much credit at once makes a person appear risky, she said; building up gradually and establishing a good payment history is a better approach.
While Fair, Isaac provides the models used to calculate scores, it does not have access to credit bureau data on individuals. The scores are used in three out of four mortgage originations as well as for other kinds of loans; a score in the middle 600's is generally high enough to get a mortgage on favorable terms. Keith T. Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Associates, a research firm in Butler, N.J., said the federally sponsored mortgage agencies, like Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, use 620 as a cutoff for high-quality loans.
As a result, loans below that score are harder to package and sell, so many mortgage lenders will deny credit or charge higher interest rates, added fees and more points up front, Mr. Gumbinger said. But contrary to popular belief, he said, in the mortgage world, "there's almost no benefit for having a better score" than 620.
For now, the only way a consumer can obtain his or her current credit score is from a lender, which will usually reveal the score only when an application is denied. Starting next month, consumers who know their scores can get an explanatory report on the Fair, Isaac Web site; people who do not know their scores can have their lenders provide them to Fair, Isaac on their behalf, and then pass along the explanation.
Eventually, Fair, Isaac said, it would like to be able to provide scores directly to consumers. And later this year, Trans Union, one of the three major credit bureaus, plans to create its own credit scores and explain the results to consumers.
 
Raising Your Score
 
Here are some ways to put your best foot forward in the complex arithmetic of credit scoring.
 
Apply sparingly. Seek credit only when you need it, not on a whim.
 
Don't change indiscriminately. Putting all your spending on a credit card can make you look deep in debt, even if you pay it all off each month.
 
Avoid maxing out. Using all your available credit makes you look risky; either borrow less or have your limit raised.
 
Pay on time. Late payments do more to hurt your score than almost anything short of default and bankruptcy.
 
Inspect your credit report. Errors and omissions in credit bureau data are common. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



451 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES;
Marriage Insurance for the Young

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
HERE is a happy thought during this month of matrimony, this saison d'amour: Of the nearly 230,000 marriages that begin in June, more than half will end in divorce, and of those, about 60,000 will involve heated legal battles.
Young adults, of course, account for the bulk of the people making trip No. 1 to the altar: in 1998, the average bride was 25 years old, the average groom 26.7. 
 The good news is that young people today -- some of whom, as we have heard ad nauseum, are worth millions -- know full well the connubial risks. To combat them, they seek preventive medicine in the form of prenuptial agreements.
"I see lots of kids," said Raoul Felder, a divorce lawyer, who writes 150 to 200 prenuptial contracts a year, 70 percent of them for people under 35 -- up from 20 percent just four years ago. In the past, he said, most of the clients were on their second or third marriages -- jaded, older and presumably wiser. Not these days.
"What used to happen is that people would start out with nothing but a big bag of hopes, so they didn't need a prenup," Mr. Felder said from his Manhattan office. "But young kids today have economic clout. Marriage is usually thought of as a disease of the young, and money is flowing into young people as it never has before, so they want to protect what they have.
"One kid came in wearing sneakers," he said. "I thought he was the delivery boy. He didn't have much money, but he had these options worth $12 million."
Prenuptial agreements have grown in specificity. Once they mainly protected an inheritance, "but now you can protect everything -- business, homes, how much child support there will be," said Seymour J. Reisman, a divorce lawyer with Reisman, Peirez & Reisman in Garden City, N.Y., who also sees many young clients. "There are a lot of different choices for people to make." And waltzing down an aisle need not be one of them: many lawyers write these agreements for unmarried people who live together.
Kalman C. Sporn runs a New York Internet management company with his name on the door. He is 29, worth in the low single millions, presently unmarried and completely pro-prenup. Many of his clients in the dot-com world have them, and he would insist that any spouse of his sign one. "You look at the people who were in love and are now divorced, and you realize that so many had hidden agendas," he said. "I'm a purist. I believe a couple should share everything. But a part of me is distrustful: I want to know I'm protected if something goes wrong."
Of course, there is still a stigma attached to the little document, which typically costs from $500 to $1,000. Plenty of people hesitate to acknowledge marrying for any reason but dewy-eyed wonder -- or that their assets might mean more than their mates. "Usually the moneyed spouse wants to sign and the other doesn't," said Mr. Reisman, who has seen couples split up over the terms.
Some people attribute the rise in prenuptial agreements among the dot-com set to youthful anxiety in an uncertain economy.
"The prenup is just another way of young kids' pumping up their ego or being underconfident about what their real abilities are," said Avi Moskowitz, 36, chief executive of Virtual Communities, which builds online portals. "No one's seen these Internet companies exist for more than three or four years, so no one knows what's going to happen."
This week, Mr. Moskowitz will celebrate his 14th wedding anniversary. He says he understands why some people might want a prenuptial agreement as a safety net, but he and his wife and business partner, Helen Moskowitz, do not have one. "A prenup essentially says we may stay together, but we may also carve out some things that are yours and some that are mine, which overemphasizes the material aspects of the relationship," he said.
He is right. Ideally, anyway, we should all say "I do" with the proper amount of optimism and hope; we shouldn't worry in advance about who'll get the stock options, the Lexus or the 'N Sync CD's. We should plan for the best -- or at least learn to part amicably without needing written instructions.
Or maybe, as Mr. Felder suggests, society needs to rethink the matrimonial institution. "There never was an instrument people would buy if it only worked half the time," he said. "Yet people are getting married knowing there's a failure rate of 50 percent. It's truly amazing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Cathy Hull)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: REISMAN PEIREZ & REISMAN LLP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS MARRIAGE (91%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); LAWYERS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%); 

PERSON: RAOUL FELDER (71%); HELEN MOSKOWITZ (57%); SEYMOUR J REISMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



452 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
WhenOne Household Has Two Political Agendas

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
LESLIE WIESENFELDER and his wife, Phyllis, are not what you would call big donors to political campaigns -- certainly not the kind of fat cats singled out by reformers for contributing to a debasement of the democratic process.
But this Maryland pair, who joke about canceling each other's votes, are a political odd couple that still typify a growing phenomenon: families that give money to opposing sides. Though the Wiesenfelders appear to manage it harmoniously, such cross-giving in other households sometimes jeopardizes domestic tranquillity. 
 "She's far more liberal than I am," said Mr. Wiesenfelder, a lawyer and registered Republican who, according to the Federal Election Commission, sent $286 last year to Senator John McCain, the former presidential candidate. Mrs. Wiesenfelder, a Democrat, is listed as a $500 donor to another former contender, Bill Bradley.
The Wiesenfelders, who live just outside Washington in Chevy Chase, even write checks for their dueling contributions from a joint account. "It's not a consultation and it's not a tradeoff," Mr. Wiesenfelder said of their less-than-fully-collegial method. But it's also "not personal, not an affront" to the other, he added.
Some politically opposed couples find contributions a somewhat greater threat to harmony. "There's a higher risk you run when money is involved," said John Buckley, a former top official in Republican presidential campaigns and now a senior vice president at Fannie Mae, the federally chartered home-financing corporation.
Mr. Buckley, who is married to Anna Bennett, a consultant to Democratic candidates, said he recently contributed from their joint account to George W. Bush and received in return a mail solicitation for more money -- addressed to both him and his wife. On an earlier occasion, he had to move quickly to intercept a letter thanking both for a contribution he made to Senator Christopher S. Bond, the Missouri Republican.
"It could have been quite embarrassing if it had gotten noticed" by his wife or, perhaps worse, by her clients, Mr. Buckley said. "I think it's probably time for separate accounts, given the fact that many of the people she most supports are running against those I'm most supportive of."
Combing through the 1999 records of the Federal Election Commission, the Center for Responsive Politics in Washington found scores of politically contrary contributions; the number may be rising with economic prosperity, which affords more people the resources to indulge political passions.
And while political giving was long dominated by men, "there's absolutely more women giving now," especially at the presidential level, said Clyde Wilcox, a government professor at Georgetown University.
Perhaps the best-known unmatched pair is James Carville, a chief troubleshooter for President Clinton, and Mary Matalin, a top campaign aide for former President George Bush who now appears on CNN's "Crossfire" and advises George W. Bush's presidential campaign. Then there is Ronald O. Perelman, the billionaire businessman who splashes money around to an assortment of mendicant parties and politicians, and Patricia Duff, a major fund-raiser for Democrats. The pair had a loud confrontation at the Democrats' 1996 convention in Chicago, just before the breakup of their stormy marriage of less than two years.
To be sure, politically mixed marriages remain a distinct minority. "Most folks marry people who share their values, including their partisanship," said Paul S. Herrnson, a political scientist at the University of Maryland and author of a book on Congressional elections. "And in cases where they disagree, they probably don't have much animosity about it."
Charlotte Kramer of Shaker Heights, Ohio, for example, gave $1,000 to Senator McCain, while Vice President Al Gore got $1,000 from her husband, Leonard S. Schwartz. "His leanings are more Democratic," said Ms. Kramer, who administers a charitable foundation. "I'm sort of a Ripon Republican," referring to the centrist organization. Even so, the "discussion" rarely escalates into argument, she said.
Rudi Lee, an Atlanta homemaker and periodic contributor to Republican candidates, is more than a little discreet about it with her husband, Michael, a paper-company manager. He is also a Republican, but they disagree on various issues, including abortion and whether there is a glass ceiling for female executives. But the subject of donations "just doesn't come up," said Mrs. Lee, who draws such checks on her account. "He probably doesn't even know."
In households where parents are politically engaged, there is a good chance the children are, too. The 1999 records of the Federal Elections Commission include one extended family in Missouri whose members gave to the campaigns of Senator John Ashcroft, a Republican seeking re-election, and his Democratic opponent, Gov. Mel Carnahan, in the most expensive Senate race outside New York. The records show that 16 people with the same family name and small-town address made donations -- more than two dozen to the Ashcroft campaign and more than one dozen to Mr. Carnahan's.
Analysts say cross-purpose donations within families appear especially common in primaries, when disagreement often centers on which candidate is most electable, rather than on fundamental principles.
And in some cases donations are spread among opposing candidates or parties for business, not personal, reasons. According to the records, Stephen K. Lambright, general counsel for the Anheuser-Busch Companies, gave $1,000 to George W. Bush, $1,000 to Al Gore and $2,000 to the Democratic Leaders' Victory Fund 2000 last year, while his wife, Gail, gave $1,000 each to Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore. "You could look at any given election and probably find us both on both sides," Mr. Lambright said.
Sometimes campaigns ask a donor to let it reallocate, say, a $500 donation, assigning half to the original donor and half to the spouse so that more of the total qualifies for matching funds; the federal government matches the first $250 an individual gives to a presidential primary candidate. The strategy sometimes extends to children.
BUT ideology remains a prime motivator in generating campaign cash. Consider Bruce J. Teitelbaum and his wife, Suri Kasirer. He is a former campaign manager for Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican mayor of New York; she is a prominent Democratic consultant and activist and a delegate to the party's national convention in Los Angeles this August.
"My wife is a loyal Democrat, right to the core," Mr. Teitelbaum said. "Our house is flooded with solicitations, and she never fails to contribute. Sometimes I ask her why in the world she gives to people she doesn't know."
Ms. Kasirer, who acknowledges that her husband is not "as ideological as I am," bristles when he wonders out loud whether she ought to discuss contributions with him -- the couple make their donations from separate accounts. "We each do our own political giving," she said, her voice suggesting that their marriage benefits from the fact that travel and work commitments often separate them.
"We're not together enough to argue about it," Mr. Teitelbaum said with a smile.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Carville and Mary Matalin, discussing their differences on "Meet the Press" last December, are perhaps the best-known couple with opposing political loyalties. (Agence France-Presse); Phyllis, left, and Leslie Wiesenfelder have kept a sense of humor about dueling donations. They say they cancel each other's votes. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FAMILY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); MEN (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WIESENFELDER, LESLIE; WIESENFELDER, PHYLLIS BILL CLINTON (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); KIT BOND (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



453 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: GRASS ROOTS BUSINESS;
Downloading Some Life Back Into Downtown

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MANNING, Iowa

 BODY:
JOAN PHILLIPS had seen it before. A small town that once prospered on the rolling Iowa countryside, unable to adjust to a changing economy, loses population and most of its businesses. It gradually experiences a kind of living death, marked by peeling paint and an aging population.
Yet Ms. Phillips, a 65-year-old retired insurance agent, and a group of her neighbors were determined not to let that happen here in Manning, a town of 1,400 about 100 miles west of Des Moines. In the last five years, Ms. Phillips and her neighbors, by joining town boards and promoting referenda, have pushed Manning to tap money from the city's publicly owned utilities, the sale of bonds and low-interest loans from the state and federal government. 
 The city has used the proceeds to give its Main Street an $850,000 facelift. It is in the midst of a $4.5 million expansion of the local hospital and the adjoining nursing home and has poured an additional $880,000 into its local schools, in part to upgrade computers and Internet access.
But the most important action, Ms. Phillips said, was a 1996 decision by 86 percent of the city's voters to issue $3.5 million in bonds to set up a locally owned local telephone service to compete with the long-time operator, the GTE Corporation. The service, the Manning Municipal Communication and Television Systems Utility, now provides residents with cable television, high-speed Internet connections and, starting later this summer, improved telephone services, including voice mail, three-way calling, speed dialing and call forwarding, that have not been available.
These telecommunications services, Ms. Phillips said, would have arrived only slowly, if at all, from GTE. "Their attitude was to let the small town go and die," suggested Ms. Phillips, who has served for 12 years as coordinator for the Manning Area Development Corporation, a local nonprofit group that works closely with state and federal agencies. "It doesn't fit into their business plan. For them it's a business issue. For us it's about a way of life."
A GTE spokesman, Don Neely, denied that his company served rural communities like Manning poorly. But he said that the company had been trying to unload many of its rural lines, including those in Iowa, to invest in wireless services and other new ventures.
GTE's impending sale of its largely rural lines across the state to the smaller Iowa Telecom -- expected to be completed later this summer -- has exacerbated the sense of urgency among communities in the state about positioning themselves to meet the challenges of the digital age.
IOWA, like other states, has been promoting the Internet as a rural development tool. The state has some strong advantages, notably its educated population, generally excellent public schools and the absence of crime and other more urban ills. Yet hopes that the Internet can help revive the state's rural communities have not widely materialized.
For the most part, said Peter F. Korsching, a sociologist at Iowa State University, the winners in Iowa's emerging new economy have not been small towns, but rather larger urban centers like Cedar Rapids and Des Moines, which serve as major switching centers for telecommunications and boast the best airport and highway connections. The state's two major college towns, Ames and Iowa City, also have done well, drawing on local graduates and well-educated residents.
"The population is coming back in growth centers, while rural Iowa is shrinking," noted Mr. Korsching, who is co-author, with Eric A. Abbott and Patricia C. Hipple, of "Having All the Right Connections: Telecommunications and Rural Economic Viability," to be published by Praeger next month. "We have islands of prosperity where Internet-related jobs are clustering."
Another, somewhat less prototypical standout has been Fairfield, a city of 15,000 that is home to Maharishi University. Fairfield boasts among the highest number of Internet domain names per capita of any community in the nation, one indication of the density of Web activity. Local people trace the area's successful telecommunications business to the presence of thousands of adherents of transcendental meditation, among them many well-educated migrants from major cities, who have been instrumental in starting Internet and other businesses related to high technology.
Mr. Korsching said that for many rural communities, the rise of the Internet and the digital economy resembles something closer to "information Armageddon" than salvation. These areas, he said, have remained dependent on agriculture at a time when the economics of farming has changed drastically. The rise of ever larger corporate farms, he noted, combined with the ability to buy on the Internet, has reduced the role of smaller towns as vital trading areas.
As a result, roughly 78 percent of Iowa's counties -- like Carroll, the home of Manning -- have lost population since 1900, according to Bruce Babcock, an Iowa State University economist. This is largely a result of the 1930's Dust Bowl and more recently the industrialization and consolidation of agriculture. Some small towns, like Grand Junction in Greene County just to the east, have Main Streets that are largely abandoned.
The decay can be seen as what a state economist, Harvey Seigelman, has called the "Dakotaization" of small-town Iowa. Ultimately, Mr. Seigelman and other observers agree, there will be a painful reshuffling of Iowa's rural geography, with a handful of communities prospering while a large number of small towns virtually disappear.
That is the prospect that haunts Manning's leading citizens and businesspeople. Although the town looks prosperous enough, per capita income remains as much as $5,000 below that of more urbanized areas of the state. The town's population has also fallen, having peaked at 2,200 in 1920. It has also been aging rapidly, with its school-age population dropping from 800 to 550 since the 1970's.
"We're in danger of becoming a totally middle-aged community," said Howard Roe, senior vice president of the First National Bank of Manning and one of the leaders of the revitalization efforts. "We have to create opportunities for younger people here. "
Manning's investment in infrastructure, particularly telecommunications, may yet be able to stem the decline, said Rick Haunsacker, executive director of Region XII Council of Governments, a development agency for six counties, including Greene and Carroll. "A lot of it has to do with the culture. In Manning, people are willing to open their pockets and use public funds to save their communities. In other places, they don't do that."
That spirit clearly drives people like Joan Phillips, who says Manning has many advantages -- a low cost of living, good schools and a disciplined, literate and motivated work force -- attractive to information-age industries. The city's expanding telecommunications net, she said, has persuaded Enterprise Corporation International, a Des Moines-based company that offers technical support and software for Sony and other electronics manufacturers, to double the size of its current 28-person staff in town.
"This offers a real chance for us," said Brenda Steck, the company's local manager, who finished Manning High School in 1983. "Of the people I graduated from high school with, only 10 or so stayed. I'm hoping this kind of industry will bring people back -- and keep people here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Main Street in Grand Junction, Iowa, far left, is largely deserted, but downtown Manning, left, is bustling. With the vision of town leaders like Joan Phillips, above, Manning set up its own telecommunications company. (Photographs by Kent Sievers for The New York Times)
 
Map of Iowa highlighting Grand Junction

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); IOWA TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (86%); AGING TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); BONDS (74%); AGING (72%); INSURANCE (71%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (71%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BROADBAND (69%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%); 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, JOAN JOAN PHILLIPS (90%); PETER F KORSCHING (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



454 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2760 words

HEADLINE: Chat-Room Millions, Real-LifeMisery

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: MARENGO, Ill.

 BODY:
IT is just after 9 one June evening in this rural town, an hour's drive from Chicago in light traffic. David L. McCoy is sitting with his laptop in an office nook of his house, tracing his finger along a curve on the screen, heading down, down, down.
"That was Monday," he says, as his finger stops at the bottom of a stock chart that resembles a ski slope. The point under his fingertip represents a day almost two months earlier -- Monday, April 17. That was the day that Mr. McCoy stopped being a millionaire, and that his younger brother, Douglas R. McCoy, realized that he would have to sell his 1996 Honda Prelude to cover margin debts. And it came during a month when many investors suffered bracing losses that, overnight, erased fortunes built during the bull market. 
 The elder brother is trying to be philosophical. The money he had on paper for those brief shining moments, did not, for the most part, have a tangible effect on his life. He likes to joke that his "$2 million truck," a Chevrolet Tahoe he bought by borrowing money from his brokerage account, is all he has to show for his market bravado.
Still, the losses hurt. The McCoy brothers bet almost their entire investment portfolios, as well as hundreds of thousands of dollars borrowed from their brokerage firm, on just one stock: the Wave Systems Corporation, a tiny company based in Lee, Mass., that designs semiconductors for use in e-commerce.
This strategy might seem foolish, but Wave did go from $1 a share in 1998 to $50.75 on March 1. By then, Dave McCoy, 36, a high school teacher of economics and psychology, held $2.34 million worth of the stock, after investing about $90,000 over three years. Doug McCoy, 31, a community college administrator, had $507,500 worth at Wave's peak, on investments of $30,000 to $40,000. Not bad for two sons of a school principal who came from solidly middle-class roots in the Chicago suburbs.
Terrance Odean, a professor at the University of California at Davis who researches investor behavior, calls a strategy like the McCoys' "the correct formula to maximize the chance of a huge windfall.
"It's also the correct formula to maximize the chance of losing everything," he added.
You could say the story of the McCoy brothers and others like them makes a case for diversification. You could say it makes a case against margin investing. You could say it, of course, but it wouldn't matter, because the brothers' quest is as old as stock markets themselves: to find the next Ma Bell or the next Microsoft before anyone else does -- to pile in and get rich.
But the quest also has a new and increasingly popular dimension: the Internet, with its chat rooms. The McCoys and hundreds of others who think Wave Systems is that holy grail are prominent citizens of a thriving message board devoted to the company at RagingBull.com.
Many of the Web's most popular financial chat subjects are tiny stocks that most people have never heard about. Wave has attracted more than 200,000 messages in less than two years, more than the combined chatter on RagingBull.com devoted to Yahoo, eBay and America Online. The followers of the stock are a close-knit community; many of them socialize off line -- a kind of e-Kiwanis Club devoted to what it sees as careful consideration of a stock they intend to hold for the long term. They have even given themselves a name, Wavoids, and often refer to the company by its stock symbol, WAVX.
The McCoys and other Wavoids -- many of whom had more than half their portfolios in the company -- rejoiced together on the ride up and then suffered together as technology stocks took a pummeling. Wave fell 79.3 percent from its March peak to its April low. Pain, and gallows humor, spread across the Wavoid community.
"Well that was fun" one chat-site Wavoid wrote during the turmoil. "Just like a dental visit!"
Weeks later, Doug McCoy, married and the father of an 11-month-old boy, Kyle, is resilient enough to chuckle as he recalls his quandary.
"How do you go home and tell your wife, 'Honey, I just lost a quarter-million dollars?' " he said.
And how do you explain that you're not ready to change a strategy best described as Wave-or-die?
 
Fantastic Voyage
The McCoy brothers first heard about Wave Systems in 1997 from another online investor. Dave McCoy had dabbled in some small stocks, while Doug McCoy, an associate dean at Waubonsee Community College, outside Chicago, had invested in mutual funds and blue-chip stocks but had never bought into a small company.
The brothers were excited about Wave's blend of technologies and its management. The company's main product is a semiconductor intended to safeguard and ease e-commerce transactions. Wave is also involved in a venture to develop technology that would allow broadcasters to transmit television shows and Internet content to home computers.
Wave has ties to some luminaries. The chairman and founder, Peter J. Sprague, was chairman of National Semiconductor, a big chip maker, for three decades. Among Wave's board members are George Gilder, the technology guru, and Nolan Bushnell, the founder of Atari, the pioneering video game company.
Finding the company, Doug McCoy said, was "the modern equivalent of finding gold."
Wave's financial history, however, was decidedly less glittery. From its inception in 1988 through March 31 of this year, Wave has had total revenue of just $284,676.
The McCoys started buying Wave in small amounts in 1997, but within a year the stock accounted for most of their portfolios. Soon the McCoys got dozens of Chicago-area friends to invest, convincing them that Wave, as Doug McCoy said in one posting, would be "the industry standard for metering and security on the Internet."
They corresponded on the chat board with other Wavoids: lawyers, psychiatrists, a Coca-Cola bottler in Southern California, a Massachusetts accountant who recently conceded that he had "broken every rule of investing" and staked everything on Wave, and the last beauty queen crowned Ms. U.S.S.R., who posted a picture of herself in a bikini when Wave met a price target of $10.
About 200 Wavoids turned out for the company's shareholder meeting last November in New York, including people from Massachusetts, New York and California with license plates bearing the company's ticker symbol. One retired General Dynamics engineer wore a 14-karat gold tie pin bearing Wave's logo.
Wave was then trading around $16 a share. Many Wavoids had become rich, at least on paper, and were understandably giddy about a company that had, in some cases, brought returns of 300 percent.
Steven K. Sprague, Wave's chief executive and the chairman's son, has spent hours mingling and meeting with Wavoids at various functions. In an interview, he said that he was concerned about some of their investing practices.
"Is it appropriate to diversify? Yes. We are not a sure thing," he said. "I tell my employees that having 99 percent in Wave is not a good idea."
Few Wavoids were as zealous as Doug McCoy, who compiled a 600-page compendium of board postings and e-mail messages, called WAVX 101, for fledgling investors. After the shareholder meeting, the McCoys, more convinced than ever about the company's prospects, began to invest on margin, using money borrowed from their broker, Web Street Securities, to increase their position. By the end of March, such purchases accounted for about a third of their positions.
For a short while, the strategy proved lucrative. Wave skyrocketed in February, though there wasn't much company news driving the stock. Then, in March, Wave hit its all-time high after reporting that it had received $122 million in a round of private financing.
Suddenly, Dave McCoy was a millionaire twice over, and his younger brother was a half-millionaire. Many other Wavoids were also margin millionaires, and the mood on the Raging Bull board turned euphoric.
"Can I ask a stupid question?" one chat board message asked. "Why do some people refer to WAVX as 'risky?' Am I missing something?"
Another Wavoid started a contest offering a 10-share prize for the person who could guess when the stock would hit $187 a share. Of the 276 contestants, Doug McCoy was the second-most bullish: he guessed March 15, or in about two weeks. His brother said April 9.
"The day it moved from $40 to $50, we made $500,000 in one day," Dave McCoy said. He celebrated by going on a shopping spree with his wife, Sharon, for some clothes for their two young daughters. In late March, a co-worker and fellow Wavoid with a small plane offered to fly him down to the Florida Keys for a fishing trip.
"It was kind of our 'Great Gatsby' trip," Mr. McCoy said. "We had our Roaring 20's experience, then came home and came back to earth."
 
Down in a Flash
Indeed, the McCoys and some other Wavoids who bought on margin had a sudden and rough landing.
On March 29, the brothers received e-mail messages from Web Street, their online broker based in Deerfield, Ill. They were told that U.S. Clearing, the New York-based intermediary that processes Web Street's trades, needed cash to meet margin calls in the McCoys' accounts. Unless they wired the money into the accounts by April 5, the messages warned, shares might be liquidated for them.
David McCoy needed to produce $221,778, and his brother $43,000. Initially, the McCoys, not understanding why the money was needed for a margin call, assumed that it was a mistake. They had little reason to suspect trouble. The Nasdaq composite index was still up 14 percent for the year, and only the day before, Wave had again topped $50.
Left unsaid in the e-mail messages was that U.S. Clearing, a unit of FleetBoston, had raised the margin requirement on Wave Systems from 50 percent to 75 percent. Clearing firms are allowed wide discretion to raise margin requirements above the benchmarks set by the Federal Reserve and market regulators, with little notification.
A spokesman for U.S. Clearing said the company sometimes raises its margin requirements on speculative stocks that have had sharp spikes in their prices, on the assumption that declines could be just as pointed.
But to the McCoys and many other investors in April, the sudden changes were baffling.
"Wave had just received $122 million in financing," Doug McCoy recalled. "Why would it change?"
On April 4, Wave closed at $28.50, down 40.5 percent in just over a week. "TIMBER!!!!!!!" exclaimed one chat board posting. "WAVX margin investors . . . Get ready for the margin call from your broker . . . Sorry guys, don't quit your day jobs just yet."
Web Street granted the brothers a temporary extension, during which they set about trying to transfer their accounts to a different broker with a lower margin requirement.
The overall slide in technology shares became severe, meanwhile, spurred in part by higher-than-expected inflation numbers, interest rate fears, Microsoft's antitrust woes and concerns about inflated valuations. Investors of many types suffered, and the McCoys' margin debt swelled. Their account transfers also stalled; ultimately, they were unable to move their accounts until a couple of weeks after the Nasdaq, and Wave, hit bottom.
The McCoys, along with two other Chicago-area Wave investors, say they plan to file a claim against Web Street for arbitration by the National Association of Securities Dealers. They contend that Web Street misinformed them about the transfer process.
Web Street executives say that such transfers often take weeks and that they acted appropriately. "We really bent over backwards for these individuals," said D. Jonathan Rosenberg, chief operating officer of Web Street. "The market went against these guys, and that's the bottom line."
By Friday, April 14, when Wave was still dropping and after the brothers realized that the transfer would not go through in time, the McCoys received new e-mail messages warning that their stock would be sold to cover margin debts at 11 a.m. on Monday.
That weekend, the two families pondered what would happen if Wave fell even further before the debts could be covered. If the worst happened, they decided, they would all move in together and make the best of it.
"Monday morning, I got up, kissed my wife and said I hope we have our house when I get home," Dave McCoy recalled.
The day did not start auspiciously. Wave opened at $11 a share. Mr. McCoy, who stayed home, had not slept for several days. Before the market opened, he got a call through to Web Street's trading floor. Hoping to avoid a fire sale of his stocks later in the day, he began liquidating much of his position. For 45 minutes, he stayed on the phone selling off blocks of shares into a seesawing market as many individual investors unloaded their stocks.
By noon, he called his wife.
"Well, we made it," he told her. They had come out of the frenzy with $64,000 left in their brokerage account. Sharon McCoy, who says she never fully comprehended the stock gains in the first place, comforted her husband, who had hoped to be able to retire early. "We have our health and we have our work," she told him.
Doug McCoy, meanwhile, got to his office at 6 a.m. and started crunching numbers. He figured that if he could sell at $17 a share, he could walk away with nothing, but also without any debt. "If we dropped back to $10 or $12," he said, "I would have had to file for bankruptcy."
With the shades drawn in his glass-walled office, he started selling as Wave fluctuated between $14 and $17. "At the end of the day, I owed them $14,000," he said. "I had over $300,000 in profit I had built in three years that I watched get flushed down the toilet. I walked outside my office and sat in the quad of the college, sat there just dazed. I'll never get that $300,000 back." To help pay for the shortfall, he sold his car.
 
A Hope That Doesn't Die
A month and a half later, Dave McCoy sits in his home office nook, pondering his whirlwind tour of Internet fortune. On his desk is a neat pile of seven banana-yellow Wave T-shirts, a "Bob Seger: Greatest Hits" CD, a row of mystery novels and a copy of "Parenting for Dummies." His 3-year-old daughter, Kelsey, rummages through a basket of toys.
While his brother is generally upbeat, Dave McCoy has taken the loss harder. He has, after all, lost a lot more. Still, he says, it helps that little about his lifestyle will change.
"I never had it," he said of his paper millions. "I never used it. I looked at it. Has losing it changed the quality of my life? Not a bit. Just my ability to realize some dreams."
Will he consider diversifying?
"Diversification is more or less an excuse for not being able to read the future," he said. "If I had half in an index fund and half in Wave, it would take me 10 years to get my capital back instead of five."
Though each of the McCoy wives says she will pay more attention to her husband's trading and use of margin, both seem less bothered by the investment losses than their husbands are. But Patricia McCoy, Doug's wife, did feel it when she lost something tangible.
"I lost my car," her husband says, starting a thought.
"Your car?" she asks, grinning at him as their son shifts in her lap. Her husband reconsiders his comment.
"Your car," he acknowledges.
Later, his wife is more pointed in her appraisal. "WAVX was like a drug for them," she said. " 'Oh, did you see it drop, did you see it drop? Oh, did you see it go up? Did you see it go up? Let's go to the auto show and pick out our Porsches.' The boys were way too close to Wave."
The brothers would come home from work, head directly for their computers and field an endless stream of phone calls from other Wavoids, usually at dinner time.
"When it crashed, I was actually kind of relieved," Ms. McCoy continues. "We were living in a fantasy world. We'd had our big blow, and now we could get back to reality."
But true love can be hard to extinguish. Both brothers are back in Wave.
Dave McCoy is trading in and out of the stock with the $64,000 he salvaged, hoping to make quick gains that will enable him to rebuild his position.
Doug McCoy bought back in after receiving, he says, hundreds of checks, gifts from other Wavoids looking to help one of their most devoted and likable brethren. As of last week, he had purchased 500 shares at $17 to $18, waiting for Wave to begin a new climb. He announced his return in a recent note posted on the Wave board. "Let the healing begin," it proclaimed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas McCoy, front, with son, Kyle, and his brother, David, with daughter Haley. The McCoys lost a paper fortune in Wave Systems stock. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Charts: "Mad About You"
Some of the busiest message boards on the Raging Bull Web site feature obscure companies with fanatical followings, like Wave Systems. Here is a look at some of them, and what participants had to say during April's Nasdaq collapse. Revenue and net income figures are for the last four quarters available. Market cap and beta figures are as of Friday.
 
MPTV
Operates and manages resorts and theme parks.
MARKET CAP: $43 million
BETA*: 0.32
SAMPLE POSTING: "Get tough. We're gonna make it. Stay away from tall buildings and bridges."(April 17)
 
Wave Systems
Creates technologies and services to secure and sell digital information.
MARKET CAP: $761 million
BETA*: 1.27
SAMPLE POSTING: "I am NOT selling nothing, stick this out and reap the rewards."(April 14)
 
Starnet Communications
Develops Interent technologies for established markets.
MARKET CAP: $91 million
BETA*: 1.08
SAMPLE POSTING: "Sitting on a huge paper loss... Now I am wishing I will wake up in a few minutes from this nightmare."(April 10)
 
Fonix
Develops human-computer interface technologies and solutions.
MARKET CAP: $209 million
BETA*: 1.09
SAMPLE POSTING: "We have to stick together and BUY the #### out of FONX now!" (April 14)
 
e.Digital
Develops portable products that link to personal computers and the Internet.
MARKET CAP: $623 million
BETA*: 0.33
SAMPLE POSTING: "I CAN'T BELIEVE THE BARGAIN WE HAVE HERE!" (April 12)
 
Charts show revenue and net income for companies
 
*A measure of a stock's volatility versus the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. A beta below 1.00 means the stock is less volatile than the index; a beta above 1.00 means it is more volatile.
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Raging Bull)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WAVX (NASDAQ) (66%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WAVE SYSTEMS CORP (66%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS; PERSONAL FINANCE STOCK INDEXES (91%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); CHAT ROOMS (82%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); BONDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (50%); 

PERSON: DOUGLAS R MCCOY (70%); DOUG MCCOY (55%); DAVID L MCCOY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



455 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Flying Blind in a Fog of Data

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IN this, the information age, there is no shortage of data about public companies available to investors. The phalanx of newspapers and magazines devoted to financial matters has ballooned in recent years, as have cable television programs and Internet chat rooms focused on investing. And Wall Street research, once shared only with a privileged few, has become widely available to investors on the Web.
But as Edward Kerschner, chief investment strategist at PaineWebber, points out, there is a big difference between information and knowledge. He believes that the instant dissemination of information today carries a substantial cost: the tendency among investors to act first and think second. That behavior, he said, may account for the recent jump in stock market volatility. 
 To illustrate his point, Mr. Kerschner has tracked volatility on the major stock indexes against the growth in daily household viewership of CNBC, the popular investing channel on cable television. As viewership has exploded, so has volatility, particularly among Nasdaq stocks.
Not surprisingly, it is becoming increasingly difficult for investors to pick through all the dross to find gold. Investing chat rooms, with their anonymous contributors, are especially good breeding grounds for misinformation. But wisdom can be found there as well.
Equally difficult to fathom are company research reports penned by Wall Street analysts. While these reports include a great deal of data, they can also be extremely biased. Researchers whose firms have or want to have investment banking relationships with the companies they follow are more inclined to be positive in their forecasts and assessments than those whose firms do not have such kinships.
Exactly how much more positive? According to five years of research by Siva Nathan, associate professor of accounting at Georgia State University in Atlanta, analysts whose firms have banking relationships with companies they follow issue earnings forecasts that, on average, are 6 percent higher than forecasts issued by other analysts. Professor Nathan's research also shows that analysts writing about companies whose securities have been underwritten by their firms put out 25 percent more "buy" recommendations, 46 percent fewer "sell" recommendations and 23 percent fewer "hold" recommendations than other analysts.
In another study, three professors examined analysts' forecasts from 1982 to 1997 to see what incremental value they provided to investors over and above the data publicly available in companies' financial statements. Eli Amir at Tel Aviv University, Baruch Lev at New York University's Stern School of Business and Theodore Sougiannis at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign concluded that analysts, over all, made only a modest contribution to investors' results beyond what could be divined from the financials.
The study found that analysts provided the most added value in forecasts on technology companies, whose financial statements were the least informative about new product developments, for example. Analysts also contribute more to investors' returns in stocks of companies that report losses than in those with profits. And analysts provide more value to investors during economic boom times than during recessions.
But over all, the professors said, the results suggest that analysts generally react to changes in stock prices rather than cause them. Which makes it seem that investors would be well advised to shut out all the yammering about earnings expectations, consensus forecasts and whisper numbers and focus instead on the financial information reported by companies themselves.
Obviously, investors are deluged with data today. This is, after all, the information age. The Enlightenment, however, it is not.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: " More Information Higher Volatility"
Chart shows the average daily price changes of index and the amount of CNBC viewers since 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PAINE WEBBER GROUP INC (PWJ) PAINE WEBBER GROUP S & P 400 (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAINE WEBBER GROUP INC (PWJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS CABLE TELEVISION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (78%); CHAT ROOMS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); 

PERSON: KERSCHNER, EDWARD EDWARD KERSCHNER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



456 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: June 11-17;
More Growing Pains for the Gore Campaign

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
Change is something Vice President Al Gore is not afraid of. Particularly when it involves his campaign.
 On Thursday, the Gore 2000 machine underwent its second major overhaul in a year, with the departure of Tony Coelho as campaign chairman and the installation of William M. Daley, the commerce secretary, as his replacement. 
 Mr. Coelho, hospitalized on Monday with an inflamed colon, said his recurring condition was the reason for his leaving. But given the struggle of the Gore campaign in recent weeks to muster any momentum and slow the rise in the polls of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, many Democrats saw the changing of the guard as inevitable.
"We're not going to miss a beat," Mr. Gore told reporters in Cincinnati. Still, the announcement diverted attention from the campaign's own efforts to reinvigorate itself. On Tuesday, Mr. Gore stood before supporters at the New York Historical Society in Manhattan to unveil his "prosperity and progress tour," in which he is to crisscross the country, laying out his priorities for how the projected budget surpluses can be used to improve programs like Medicare and Social Security.
The tour is intended to be a kind of memorandum to the country, reminding voters of what Mr. Gore's advisers believe is the winning message for the fall: that under the Clinton-Gore administration, the United States has experienced unparalleled economic success. (Indeed, in a commercial running in 17 states last week, the Republican National Committee began its pitch for Mr. Bush by conceding that the nation was "more prosperous than ever.")
Mr. Bush took a respite from the road for much of the week at the family vacation compound in Kennebunkport, Me. The layover was a reminder of the closeness of the Bush clan. In written responses to a reporter's questions, Mr. Bush's father, the former president, acknowledged that he deeply felt each and every sling and arrow of the campaign as if it were his own.
"I can tell you," he said, "none of the flak I took affected me as much as when I see George unfairly criticized." PETER MARKS 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); BUDGETS (68%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



457 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Money Changes Everything

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AN almost surreal sense of good fortune suffuses the carnival that is the American economy these days. And that, paradoxically, is proving to be a challenge to politicians, who are having trouble finding their footing in a climate where prosperity seems a given and the biggest issue is not too little money but too much of it.
When the government can afford tax cuts, spending increases and the elimination of the national debt, do the terms liberal and conservative mean anything anymore? When it has been nearly two decades since the last sustained period of economic trouble, can anyone claim to be responsible for the good times, or to have the recipe to keep them rolling? 
 Nowhere has the sense of the economy outrunning ideology and political strategy been more pronounced than in the breathtaking improvement in the federal government's finances.Analysts in both parties said last week that budget surplus projections for the next decade could be revised upward again in the next month by as much as $1 trillion, an amount roughly equivalent to the entire economic output of China this year.
That would drive total projected 10-year budget surpluses, including Social Security and general revenue, to more than $4 trillion, even by conservative estimates. And although the precise numbers are little more than guesswork -- and could drop sharply if the economy or the stock market goes into a protracted swoon -- economists are in broad agreement that there will be large and growing surpluses for years to come.
In a sense, that good news presented a problem for Vice President Al Gore by undermining one of the central messages of his campaign, that Gov. George W. Bush was fiscally irresponsible. Faced with the likelihood of a much larger surplus, Mr. Gore scrambled to turn the news to his advantage, doubling the size of his tax cut, proposing his own version of retirement savings accounts and making the case for additional spending on education, health care and the environment.
With his expensive platform of tax cuts, Social Security overhaul and a national missile defense program suddenly looking more affordable, Mr. Bush could have been forgiven a smirk. The Texan even gained room to claim that he would be committed to debt reduction, just like his opponent. Yet Mr. Bush's insistence that Washington is profligate and would have to tighten its belt in most areas other than the military began to ring hollow.
We've got peace and prosperity and a surplus," said James Thurber, a professor of government at American University in Washington. "That creates a new kind of politics. They no longer have to make tough decisions to balance the budget. They no longer have to cut popular programs to get tax cuts, or to increase taxes, God forbid, in order to pay for things."
But to the degree that they no longer define themselves through the fight over how to allocate scarce resources, the two parties may have to retool their ideologies or risk losing their identities.
"The old left-right guideposts are no longer reliable," said Will Marshall, president of the Progressive Policy Institute, the research group for centrist Democrats. "They hark back to the conflicts of an industrial society that is being eclipsed by the new economy. Ideologues in Washington and activists at the grass roots level have an investment in maintaining the old polarities, but the electorate is less and less interested in them."
David Brooks, the author of "Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There," a look at how affluence has made a hash of traditional value systems and cultural identities, said prosperity is creating "a style of politician who goes off in both directions at once." In trying to merge opposing views of the world, he said, politicians are combining elements of left and right under rubrics that are given fancy names like the Third Way but could equally be viewed as "ideological mush."
It is not that traditional politics and ideology do not matter at all. It may only have been divided government that has kept Republicans from using the surplus to slash taxes in a way that would starve the government of revenues and power in the long run, and the Democrats from pushing through expensive social programs. This year's presidential race is in many ways about whether one party should have a mandate to use the bounty of the long expansion.
But the partisan lines are blurring. Republicans in Congress have grown more willing to spend money and tolerate, if not embrace, big and powerful government -- a sea change from 1995, when the Gingrich revolution promised the elimination of entire cabinet agencies.
"It's what I only half-jokingly call the curse of the surplus: You can't get anyone interested in cutting anything," said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee. "Politicians are in the game of being able to give away rather than take away."
IT is the same on the other side of the aisle. Earlier this month, 65 Democrats in the House voted in favor of repealing the federal estate tax, and nearly all Democrats voted to slash the estate tax substantially -- a move the party had long held up as the epitome of a giveaway to the very richest people at the expense of the poorest. Class warfare, many Democrats seemed to be saying, does not make as much sense when most voters are solidly middle class or above.
In such a fluid situation, the rules of the political game are uncertain. Mr. Gore began a push last week to wrap himself in the strong economy, assuming that voters, as they always have, will tend to favor the incumbent party when times are good. But polls do not show much evidence that Mr. Gore is seen as prosperity's steward. What if voters see the economy as a the creation of rapid technological change, and no longer connect it with Washington?
Regardless of who wins, the next president will have a long list of immediate and looming issues to address, and fewer fiscal constraints in doing so than any president since Lyndon B. Johnson. Or maybe the carnival will pull out of town and leave behind another mess.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sheet of $10 bills gets the once-over at the Bureau of Printing and Engraving. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US) PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



458 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The Immigration Debate;
Full Employment Opens the Door

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
JUST a few years ago, lawmakers were in full cry about the supposed dangers of immigration -- from crime to welfare cheats to lost jobs.
Yet now Congress is poised to pass a bill that would grant visas to tens of thousands more temporary high-tech workers from abroad. And an unlikely coalition of business and immigrants rights groups is pushing to fling the door open wider: to unskilled workers who could fill shortages in hotels and on farms, and even to roll back an array of restrictive measures passed with great fanfare in 1996. 
 Clearly, the national conversation about immigrants and immigration has changed dramatically. Representative Howard L. Berman, a Democrat from California, described the political momentum generated by the temporary workers bill this way: "There's a train going through. Can I get on it?"
Sometime later this summer, Congress is expected to pass H1B, which would nearly double, to 200,000, the number of such visas issued every year for the next three years. The measure has bipartisan support, including the blessings of both presumptive Presidential candidates .
If it passes, H1B will be the largest guest worker measure since the 1942 bracero program, which imported millions of Mexicans farmworkers into virtual servitude, until it was dismantled in 1964.
A broad new service industry coalition, representing everything from hospitals to hotels, is seeking its own temporary workers from abroad. And agribusiness, which has unsuccessfully lobbied for temporary field workers in the past, has renewed its efforts.
Meanwhile, traditional immigrants rights groups are urging lawmakers to lift the 1996 measures that bar immigrants from some government benefits, tighten political asylum rules and require the automatic deportation of non-citizens who had been convicted of certain felony crimes.
A coalition calling itself "Fix 96," is urging lawmakers to repeal the mandatory deportation law and restore social security benefits and food stamps to immigrants who arrived after 1996; benefits to pre-1996 immigrants have already been restored.
Another coalition of business and civil rights groups is calling on Congress to grant legal status to some 300,000 immigrants who fled political violence in El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti and Honduras but were denied refugee status in this country. The same group wants Congress to raise the cap on family reunification visas, while religious leaders and a left-right coalition led by Henry Cisneros and Jack Kemp have called for amnesty for others who have lived here illegally for many years.
In what Rick Swartz, a leading immigration lobbyist, calls the "H1B- plus" strategy, activists are trying to bundle both the family reunification and amnesty proposals with the high-tech worker bill, turning it into a kind of omnibus immigration measure.
"The economy is very strong right now and who knows what it's going to look like a year from now," Mr. Swarz said. "A strong economy enables you to do more. Secondly, an election year in which the politics of immigration may be more positive than negative. Third, you have both major presidential candidates being pro-immigrant at least in their rhetoric."
Of course, good times have usually meant open doors, and these are, economically, the best times ever. Still, none of the other immigration bills enjoy anything like the consensus surrounding H1B. The farm lobby's guest worker bill, which the House immigration subcommittee debated Thursday, is likely to face strong opposition from labor and Latino groups, who don't accept the industry's claims of a labor shortage. They want a provision to legalize the immigration status of farm workers, a majority of whom are undocumented Hispanic immigrants, while the industry bill would allow some farm workers to gain permanent residency.
John Young, executive director of the New England Apple Council who heads the immigration committee of the National Council of Agricultural Employers, remains optimistic. "I think the opportunity is very good for passage, better than it has been in the past few years," he said.
ASERVICE industry umbrella group called the Essential Worker Coalition also cites labor shortages in tourism and other trades, and has just begun what it likes to call an H1B program tailored for groundskeepers, housekeepers and other low-skilled workers, many of them seasonal.
"The high-tech industry has done a very good job in making their case," argued John Gay, a lobbyist for the American Hotel and Motel association and a spokesman for the coalition. "We need to do the same making our case."
Many service industry workers are illegal immigrants from Central America and Haiti, and Mr. Gay's group has thrown its support behind the National Council of La Raza, a leading Latino rights group, which proposes amnesty for undocumented immigrants who have lived and worked here since 1986.
One area in which there has been little movement has been the restoration of government benefits that were cut in 1996. A number of bills have been introduced to repeal the mandatory deportation law, but none have made it out of the immigration subcommittees. Efforts to restore the due process rights of asylum-seekers have had a similar fate.
To Mr. Swartz, the reason is clear. "It's harder to get the business community to support a bill on the legal rights of people getting deported," he pointed out, "than to get a legalization program for Central Americans who are working in their restaurants." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LABOR; FOREIGN LABOR; ASYLUM (POLITICAL) IMMIGRATION (95%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); FARM LABOR (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); AMNESTY (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); DEPORTATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); WELFARE FRAUD (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FELONIES (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI HOWARD L BERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



459 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
When Testing Upstages Teaching

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE 

 BODY:
AS every child knows, school these days is spelled t-e-s-t: preparing for them, taking them, passing them -- or else.
Beginning in the 1990's, American educators, lusting after the academic successes of European and Japanese schoolchildren, imported the idea of a rigorous system of tests, which those countries use to cull the elite from the merely literate. But educators here insisted that America would instead use testing to snap schools to attention, forcing them to raise standards for everyone. They would lift up, not weed out. 
 Unfortunately, the evidence so far suggests that schools here are doing the very sort of gardening they promised to avoid, employing tests to sort children, often by the time they are in grade school.
In several other countries, it is illegal to track students before they are teenagers, said Marc Tucker, president of the National Center on Education and the Economy in Washington. But in the United States, teachers have decided by the early grades who is bright and who isn't, giving some students the message that they will never rise out of the lower track.
"This is the country that has the most vicious tracking system in the world because we start to do it so young," Mr. Tucker said. "The results are far more irrevocable than we will admit to ourselves. If you've assigned kids in fourth and fifth grade to the lower rungs of the English ladder, there's no way in the world for them to become accomplished readers and writers. It creates an utter disaster in terms of expectations."
No wonder there has been a well-publicized outbreak of cheating.
"The people who think about testing didn't think through the implications," says Philip G. Altbach, professor of education at Boston College. "They just thought, the Europeans are doing this and they have a good outcome. But what comes along with their system is an entire baggage of selection."
Americans, of course, have always tested their students. But the tests used in decades past -- apart from the SAT, which was never intended to drive how schools teach -- tested samples or groups of students. The European or Japanese notion was to test individual students.
Now, Chicago schools use test scores to hold children back a grade, an example President Clinton would like to replicate nationwide. In New York City, tests are used much like SAT cutoff scores by some competitive middle schools; in other communities, the scores determine who enters the "gifted" track.
The result is what Merry White, a scholar of Japan and a professor of anthropology at Boston University, calls "a great American mixed message."
"We wanted to say that at any point in life you can make yourself over, that's part of our ideology," she said. "We're supposed to believe that getting off track is okay. We had this idea of equality. But we don't know how to implement it in a meritocracy."
Defenders of the tests argue that American schools have always sorted students, and the new tests sort more fairly and more openly, so that the bald test scores force teachers and parents to pay attention and demand more from all students.
Indeed, there is some evidence suggesting that tests may spur children to perform at higher levels. Scores are up across New York State in the second year of the fourth grade reading tests. Texas offers perhaps the best example. There, scores have gone up dramatically in the 10 years since the state began publicly reporting school-by-school scores. With a large state and local campaign to do better on tests, Texas has begun to shrink the stubborn test score gap between blacks and whites.
It is difficult to know, however, what the scores mean. New York City Schools Chancellor Harold Levy cautions that the improvement in his students' scores may simply reflect more familiarity with the new tests. And even those who applaud the Texas example question whether those students are really learning at high levels.
William Schmidt, the director of the United States branch of the Third International Math and Science Study, a widely respected survey of about three dozen nations, has examined dozens of the new state tests, as well as more traditional tests.
"The idea of reform may be to say do more algebra, but the tests are pushing basics," he said.
The problem is that when the United States imported tests, it did not import the rigorous curriculum that shapes other countries' schools. Teachers in most states still don't have a clear sense of what the tests are supposed to be testing, or what constitutes high achievement. Instead, everyone becomes obsessed with the scores.
THAT might explain why American students continue to lag in international comparisons, even as their scores on national tests improve.
Countries that continue to outperform the United States, Professor Schmidt said, are teaching the math that Americans learn in the eighth grade at the fourth and fifth grades.
Most important, they also have well-defined sets of standards about what students need to learn, which dictate a curriculum that is narrower, but deeper. That curriculum is tightly tied to the test, and students are not sorted until the upper grades, by which time they have been thoroughly schooled in the curriculum.
In the United States, "the whole notion has been deformed in some ways," said Sue Bastian, head of Teaching Matters, a group of former teachers devoted to teacher training. "The standards which should have guided us have bowdlerized into standardized tests," she said, which are then used to punish low-scoring schools, rather than improve the curricula or teachers' skills.
The result is essentially the same system as before, only with more tests squeezing teachers' time.
"I think there are some people making state policy who think that teachers have known all along how to raise performance, they've just been lazy, that all you have to do is raise the bar and they will do it," said Mr. Tucker. "I don't think that's true at all. All the tests will do is measure kids' performance. But you're not going to improve performance unless teachers do something different in the classroom."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tokyo students pray before taking their examinations. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER ON EDUCATION & THE ECONOMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER ON EDUCATION & THE ECONOMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



460 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: The World: High Jump;
If Dad Was a Dictator, Just Try Being Mr. Nice Guy

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE images sent imaginations soaring.
On the airport tarmac in Pyongyang last Tuesday, the reclusive, elusive leader of North Korea, Kim Jong Il, reached forward and greeted his guest, President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, with an honor guard and a gripping, two-handed handshake. Behind the grins, it was tempting to see a melting of a half-century of hostility across the Korean peninsula, one of the world's most dangerous flashpoints. 
 Half a world away, Bashar al-Assad, a 34-year-old British-educated eye doctor who is the new ruler of Syria, stood stoically near the flag-draped coffin of his father, President Hafez al-Assad, receiving condolences from a parade of visiting foreign princes and dignitaries. One of those visitors was Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, expressing hope -- ever so tentatively -- that the new Syrian leader might cool off the most enduringly hostile corner of the Middle East.
It was, of course, pure coincidence that the two events took place the same day. But beneath the surface, there are profound similarities in what was happening last week.
Both North Korea and Syria are relics of another age -- dictatorships based on internal terror and hostility to external neighbors, threatening to explode at any time in new conflict. And now Syria, like North Korea six years ago, has embarked on a dynastic transition that may -- or may not -- give reason to hope for an easing of those tensions.
In each place, power has passed from a dictator to his son, and the son shows signs of a more modern, outward-looking approach to solving his country's deep problems. Perhaps that can make the world more peaceful.
But there is also the disquieting feeling that it won't be easy; terror and isolation remain hallmarks of the systems in which these two sons rule, and whether they can -- or even want to -- tame parts of those systems may be the most important factors in determining whether a real transformation is under way. Change, for both sons, will be risky: moving from a terror-based society to a more open one always is.
In the case of North Korea, Kim Jong Il appears to have made a strategic, possibly desperate, decision to reach out to the rest of the world. Even before he pledged during the summit that he would visit South Korea, he established diplomatic relations with Italy and secretly visited China. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has said he will visit North Korea next month, and Japan is negotiating a possible resumption of relations.
In the case of Syria, the younger Mr. Assad, an English- and French-speaking Internet enthusiast in a country where free speech is a fantasy and the Internet has been branded a threat to security, made clear even before he assumed the reins of power that he was different from his father. "I am not one of those who keeps power for himself," he told the Egyptian weekly Al Ousboua in an interview before his father's death. "I believe in the need to open up to all opinions and listen to all viewpoints."
But for both men, success is not at all guaranteed, and for remarkably similar reasons. Neither Kim Jong Il nor Bashar al-Assad got his job the way his father did -- as a military leader who grabbed and consolidated power. Even though both countries are called "republics," the sons did not get their jobs because of the will of the people. They did not even get their jobs in the most traditional dynastic way -- through the legitimacy implicit in royal blood lines.
Rather, the two sons came into power only because of the political manipulations of their fathers while they were alive, abetted after their deaths by military and terror apparatuses bequeathed to the sons as pillars of their respective systems. That means that their claim to legitimacy is dangerously thin, and any bold move either at home or abroad is fraught with risks. Both men's fathers left them societies in bad economic shape, North Korea's disastrously so. Westerners sometimes see that as a force dictating an opening to the outside world. But both sons must be aware that a wrong move in that direction could bring down the wrath of the military or the ruling party. At the same time, isolating potential rivals and suddenly placing new power in the hands of foreign businessmen, or the press, or the people themselves, could bring down the entire structure of power.
IN North Korea's case, for example, Mr. Kim inherited the most isolated regime in the world, one whose people have been fed an extraordinary stream of propaganda and one where any sudden influx of real information about how much better the outside world lives could be enormously destabilizing and dangerous to the leader.
Consider the history of efforts to remove terror from a politicial system without bringing it down.
The Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev tried and failed outright; his system was too brittle to withstand the sweeping societal, economic and political changes he envisioned. It simply collapsed.
China, wary of Mr. Gorbachev's mistakes, is experimenting with retaining its Communist Party structure and autocratic government while opening up its economy to capitalism and foreign investment; the ultimate outcome of this juggling act is not at all certain either.
And in Syria's ally Iran, yet another kind of risky transitional experiment is under way. There clerical leaders are mixing two volatile chemicals -- Islam and democracy -- in a struggle to reconcile representative government and the rule of law with theocracy.
In North Korea, despite Kim Jong Il's opening to the world, there is no evidence that he intends to open up the political system for his starving population at home. North Korea is so closed, its people apparently so quiescent, that when he postponed the summit for a day, he felt no need to explain why. He could quip that he knew all about South Korea from watching its television for years, a right that is denied to his citizens, whose sole radio station blares government propaganda that good citizens are expected to leave on all day long. In fact, most of the images of the two leaders meeting that were beamed to South Korea were not shown in the North. Virtually no foreigners were allowed to attend the summit in Pyongyang.
"I don't see the decision to engage as a decision to open up North Korean society," said Stephen Linton, a Korea expert and chairman of the nonprofit Eugene Bell Foundation, created to fight tuberculosis in North Korea. "These folks are not frustrated democrats. They have never been educated to question authority. On the contrary, they have been educated to be loyal to their leader. Unanimity is a public virtue here."
Even to Mr. Linton, who has spent considerable time in North Korea over the years, the country is a black hole. "Thirty to 40 years into Korean studies, I have no idea where this is going," he said. "It's humbling."
In Syria, a Mediterranean country with a long mercantile tradition, the people are much less isolated and more politically sophisticated. Despite the closed nature of Syrian society and the authoritarian system of decision-making today, many Syrians remember the 1950's, when they enjoyed democratic rights under a multiparty system. But they also remember that the period of democracy ended in a series of coups; it is the kind of denouement that sours repressive societies on the soft side of democracy, and surely there is no nostalgia for that kind of instability, even in the Syria of the Assads.
STILL, because of the stakes for peace in general, it is to be expected that the outside world is lining up to nudge both North Korea and, to a lesser extent, Syria, to achieve reasonable relationships with their neighbors.
In North Korea's case, China in particular has reason to act: it has cultivated relationships with both North and South Korea and has endured an illegal influx of hundreds of thousands of North Koreans fleeing the country's economic crisis.
Meanwhile, the United States is puzzling over what last week's showmanship means. Clinton administration officials aren't revising intelligence assessments about the need for a national missile defense that would define North Korea as the pre-eminent threat. In fact, one theory at the Pentagon is that Kim Jong Il's outreach could all be a plot orchestrated by Russia to derail an American limited missile defense initiative. "Nothing North Korea does short of merging with the South and democratizing would change our calculation about the threat," one senior administration official said.
With Syria, the signs are more subtle. Both before and since Hafez al-Assad's death, the United States has said that it sees little chance in the short term for progress toward an Israeli-Syrian peace. Israeli officials are also pessimistic, although some have painted the new Syrian leader in a positive light.
Compounding the problem is that both societies are controlled at the top, leaving outsiders little leverage to affect change except through formal state-to-state relations. There are no parliaments or newspapers or independent groups to bond with.
"These highly autocratic regimes can use their international connections to enhance their domestic positions and extract concessions from the outside world," said Stephen D. Krasner, a political science professor at Stanford University. "But the nature of these regimes also limits the ability of external actors to alter policies." In other words, even those intriguing images last week of outsiders invited in can be used to keep these societies closed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: For 50 years, the line separating North and South Korea has been one of the world's most dangerous and heavily guarded flashpoints. Hope that that may change was raised last week. But the barbed wire stayed up. (Agence France-Presse); North Korea's Kim Jong Il.; Syria's Bashar al-Assad. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ITALY (72%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SYRIA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ITALY (72%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; KIM JONG IL; ASSAD, BASHAR AL- KIM JONG IL (91%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



461 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: The Challenges of Abundance

 BODY:
A deadly familiarity has crept into the debate between Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush. Last week, as Mr. Gore embarked on a new series of "prosperity and progress" speeches, Mr. Bush immediately derided his efforts as "Al Gore's 'I Invented Prosperity' Tour." Underneath the surface of such exchanges, however, the political terrain may be undergoing some redefinition. For the first time in decades, a presidential race is occurring at a time of economic abundance and budget surpluses. These unusual circumstances are testing the creativity of both major candidates.
Seven years ago, hemmed in by massive budget deficits inherited from the Reagan years, President Clinton could not deliver on his promises to stimulate the economy with major investments in infrastructure and other programs. But suddenly the candidates are now arguing over what to do with surpluses that no candidates in recent history have enjoyed. This has allowed Mr. Gore, who has been stumbling for months, to present the public with a detailed policy agenda of spending proposals. It has also allowed Mr. Bush to warn -- echoing the traditional anti-government rhetoric of Republican candidates -- that the money must not be commandeered by federal programs. 
 Their sparring is driven by new but as yet unannounced budget projections for the next 10 years. A 10-year surplus that in April was projected by the Congressional Budget Office to be nearly $900 billion if spending remained at realistic levels could now turn out to be between $1.5 trillion and $2 trillion. The surplus is based on prudent economic assumptions, but it could of course shrink if there was an economic downturn, or if Republicans managed to ram through a lot of their proposed tax cuts for the rich this year.
Mr. Gore proposes to use the extra money for an accelerated program to retire the national debt and to set up three "trust funds" for health care, the environment and education. He argues that his approach is more fiscally prudent than Mr. Bush's, especially because it aims to make America debt-free for the first time since the 1830's. For its part, the Bush campaign will argue that its tax cut of more than $1 trillion over 10 years is now more affordable than before, and that spending the surplus is a decision best left to individuals.
Both campaigns seem aware of surveys showing that Americans are not nearly as angry about the government as they were in the early or even the mid-1990's. The Gore campaign is tapping into an emerging American recognition that economic change has made it more urgent for government to train workers, invest in health and research, and protect families left behind or hurt by new rules in the workplace and marketplace.
The presidential contest has not caught fire with the voters quite yet. Two men of privilege approaching the White House with a sense of entitlement does little to fire the imagination. But if they can make this campaign a genuine discussion of the opportunities posed by abundance, it could mark a turning point. The first glimmerings of such a debate should be encouraged rather than dismissed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX LAW (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



462 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Patience Doesn't Pay For Social Security

 BODY:

To the Editor
"Trading More Now for Less Later" (Economic View, May 28) says Social Security recipients might be sensible to wait until the age of 70 to begin taking retirement benefits, because the monthly payments are higher.
The analysis used, however, is flawed. 
 In an example, the column says the monthly payment at 70 would be $1,300 for someone who passed up $1,000 at age 65. Those numbers are approximately correct for someone who is reaching 65 this year, with the payments increasing 6 percent for each year deferred. But that increase does not necessarily mean that deferral is a good bet.
A retiree starting $1,000 payments at 65 would receive $60,000 during the 60 months before turning 70. At the higher rate of $1,300 a month, it would take 200 months, or almost 17 years, to recoup, when the recipient would be almost 87.
There's more. If the retiree had enough resources to eschew payments until age 70, then the earlier amounts could have been invested. Assuming a conservative after-tax return of 5 percent, there would be an additional $10,000 in the pot; the breakeven point would then come a few months before the 90th birthday celebration. Of course, if the original $60,000 gain keeps earning 5 percent, there will almost never be a day of reckoning.
Deferral does not sound like a very good bet to me; when I turned 65 this year, I did not make it.
 
LEE J. SEIDLER
Roxbury, Conn., May 30
 
The writer is a certified public accountant.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



463 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: JUNE 12-16;
Two Steps Forward, Two Steps Back

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
After its downward acceleration in the early spring, the stock market remains stuck in neutral. And investors are not sure where it is headed, which is why volume has been so thin lately.
 "I think people in general are cautious," said Barry Berman, head trader for Robert W. Baird & Company. "Until the market gets a string of economic data that's pretty consistent, it's not going anywhere." 
 Stocks were pulled in different directions last week. They rose on a report that retail sales fell in May, a sign that the interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve had succeeded in slowing the economy. But they fell on fears that the economic slowdown would hurt corporate profits.
 Several companies indicated that second-quarter earnings and revenue would not meet Wall Street's high expectations. Among the decliners were Home Depot, Hewlett-Packard and Xerox.
 Rising rates can hurt corporate profits by making it more expensive for companies to finance growth and for customers to buy their products.
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended the week at 10,449.30, down 164.76, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 14.28, to 3860.56. VIVIAN MARINO
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
RAMBUS
NNM: RMBS
The company, whose technology helps make computer chips faster, signed a patent licensing and royalty agreement with Toshiba of Japan.
Friday's Close: $83.375
Week's Change: +42.79%
EST. '00 P/E: 544.93
 
WACHOVIA
NYSE: WB
The financial holding company said its second-quarter profit would miss analysts' estimates. Also, it said it would take a $200 million quarterly charge to raise loan-loss reserves and to cover nonperforming assets.
Friday's Close: $56.4375
Week's Change: -18.28%
EST. '00 P/E: 12.26
 
NVEST
NYSE: NEW
CDC Asset Management of France agreed to buy the Boston-based investment management company for $1.9 billion, which includes the assumption of $311 million of debt.
Friday's Close: $37.625
Week's Change: +84.66%
EST. '00 P/E: 21.54
 
NBC INTERNET
NNM: NBCI
The online media company said earnings and revenue for the second quarter and the year would fall short of analysts' forecasts because of lower advertising sales and a restructuring effort.
Friday's Close: $14.875
Week's Change: -43.74%
EST. '00 P/E:
 
WYNN'S INTERNATIONAL
NYSE: WN
Parker Hannifin agreed to buy the supplier of automotive and industrial parts for $438 million, or $23 a share, to expand sales of its sealing products. The deal also includes assumption of $59 million in debt.
Friday's Close: $22.6875
Week's Change: +68.06%
EST. '00 P/E: 13.35
 
CITRIX SYSTEMS
NNM: CTXS
The maker of computer network products said second-quarter earnings would be 9 to 11 cents a share, less than the 21-cent estimate of analysts. It cited weakness in its large enterprise accounts.
Friday's Close: $21.9375
Week's Change: -46.74%
EST. '00 P/E: 33.85
 
TIVO
NNM: TIVO
America Online said it would invest as much as $200 million in the company, which markets an advanced TV recorder that lets viewers pause, rewind and play back live broadcasts.
Friday's Close: $32.25
Week's Change: +24.93%
EST. '00 P/E
 
CORNING
NYSE: GLW
Corning said second-quarter earnings would be 78 to 80 cents a share, above analysts' estimates of 69 cents a share. The company cited increased demand for its fiber optic products.
Friday's Close: $245.00
Week's Change: +15.33%
EST. '00 P/E: 83.48
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (72%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RETAIL SALES (55%); 

PERSON: BARRY A BERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



464 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: George Marshall, 96, Pioneer in the Civil Rights Movement

 BODY:
George Marshall, a vigorous proponent of civil rights and a conservationist with a special passion for the Adirondack Mountains, died in Nyack, N.Y., on May 21. He was 96.
Mr. Marshall's involvement in civil rights was inspired by his father, Louis Marshall, a co-founder of the American Jewish Committee, and by his marriage to Elisabeth Dublin, a fellow advocate, in 1930. 
 As a pioneer in the civil rights movement of the 40's and 50's, Mr. Marshall worked closely with people like Paul Robeson, and served as chairman of the National Federation for Constitutional Liberties and its successor, the Civil Rights Congress.
In April 1946, Mr. Marshall was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee and cited for contempt when he refused to produce records of the N.F.C.L. He was convicted and served three months in prison.
Mr. Marshall's other passion was preservation of the wilderness.
To publicize the need for protecting wilderness areas, Mr. Marshall, his brother, Robert, and their mentor, Herb Clark, became the first to climb the 46 highest mountain peaks in New York State. After Robert Marshall died at age 38 in 1937, Mr. Marshall became a trustee of the Robert Marshall Wilderness Fund.
Mr. Marshall attended the Ethical Culture School in New York City and graduated from Columbia College. He earned a doctorate in economics from the Brookings Institution in 1930.
Mr. Marshall's wife died in 1993. He is survived by his son, Roger Marshall of Springfield, Vt.; his daughter, Nancy Marshall Schultz of Nyack; six grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (58%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (58%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (78%); WILDERNESS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); 

PERSON: MARSHALL, GEORGE PAUL LEROY ROBESON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



465 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: Korean Accord Fails to Stall Missile Plan

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
The remarkable summit meeting between the Korean leaders this week has left the Clinton administration widely divided over North Korea's intentions, but has not so far diminished its resolve to move ahead with a missile defense, administration and defense officials say.
Despite recent diplomatic forays that culminated in a general agreement between the Korean leaders to work for peace and unity on their divided peninsula, North Korea has not stopped work on the long-range missile program that has helped provoke proposals for the United States to build a defensive shield, the officials said. 
 Indeed, a highly classified intelligence report being prepared for President Clinton will conclude that, if the current pace of development remains unchanged, North Korea could still build a missile capable of striking the United States by 2005, the officials said.
Without more concrete agreements and changes in North Korea's behavior, the officials said, it would not be prudent to back away from plans to build the missile defense now, despite the fact that the proposal has roiled relations with Russia, China and even America's European allies.
Three days of smiles and toasts, they emphasized, do not erase years of effort by North Korea to build nuclear weapons and the missiles to deliver them.
"Not from the summit and not from any of the other things have we seen any signs that they are changing their program to develop missiles," Walter B. Slocombe, the under secretary of defense for policy, said in an interview.
At the same time, the officials acknowledge that they will face even greater diplomatic pressure after this week's summit meeting to forswear the shield.
And they say that the striking scenes of the Korean leaders warmly embracing, holding hands and clinking Champagne glasses have underscored divisions within the administration over how -- and how quickly -- to proceed with a defensive shield and what the North's true intentions might be.
Moreover, officials acknowledge that the summit meeting has helped fuel some doubts over much of the rationale for a missile defense, which is that the North Korean government was so irrational and unpredictable that it would not respond to normal threats of deterrence.
"Can we argue that we face the same threat if we have a North Korea trying to integrate into the international community?" a former senior defense official said, referring obliquely to the administration's characterization of North Korea as a rogue state. Noting that North Korea's diplomatic steps have seemed well calculated in recent months, the official added: "How can we at the same time argue that it is an irrational state?"
The North's diplomatic opening has already prompted the White House to indicate that it will lift a broad set of economic sanctions that have been in place since North Korea invaded the South 50 years ago this month.
President Clinton spoke with the South Korean president, Kim Dae Jung, by telephone on Thursday and met on Friday in New York with South Korea's national security adviser, Wong Won Tak, to discuss the summit meeting. And Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright announced that she would go to South Korea next week for further discussions.
But officials repeatedly emphasized that it is too soon to evaluate promises of cooperation from North Korea and that they were looking for more concrete steps.
"We need to see something more than handshakes and speeches," a four-star military officer said. For starters, he suggested that the North could withdraw some of its formidable artillery dug in near the border within easy range of Seoul, the South's capital.
The summit meeting this week has left various parts of the administration with widely divergent interpretations as to its significance.
The most wary assessment, held by some senior military officials, is that it remains impossible to decipher the true motives of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, who before this week had been described by American officials as reclusive and paranoid. They darkly suggest that he is in league with China and Russia to undercut support for an American missile shield.
Some Pentagon and State Department officials, on the other hand, are cautiously optimistic that the North is indeed beginning to change.
Finally, some senior intelligence officials say they believe that reconciliation between the North and South, driven by the determination of the 75-year-old South Korean president, will happen faster than anyone can predict.
Officials acknowledged that the summit meeting together with North Korea's other recent diplomatic overtures might yet force a reconsideration of American assumptions about North Korea's intentions, but they said their assessment of the North missile abilities has remained unchanged. The most recent intelligence finding that is to be presented to Mr. Clinton reaches the same conclusion as last year's.
Although North Korea reached an agreement with the United States last fall to suspend testing of missiles like the one fired over Japan in 1998, the North Korean military has not suspended development of a new generation of missiles, known as the Taepodong 2, the officials said.
North Korea has honored its pledge not to test-fire its missiles and even renewed that pledge early this year, but intelligence analysts say they still detect work at that site, as well as other types of testing.
"They continue to test motors, missile engines and things like that," said a senior military officer who closely monitors North Korea. "There's nothing on their launch pads, but they're continuing to make improvements" at the test site.
Since this week's summit meeting, officials in Washington have tried to tamp down expectations that one of the last fronts of the cold war may soon disappear, fundamentally altering American security interests in Asia, including the presence of some 37,000 American troops in South Korea and its assessment of North Korea's missile threat. The day after the summit meeting, the Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, called for "warier, controlled exuberance."
Officials at the Pentagon, in particular, were adamant that whatever diplomatic progress was made, the United States was still justified in moving ahead with a limited national missile defense, the first phase of which is explicitly intended to counter a threat from North Korea.
The latest assessment of North Korea's missile threat is critical to the Pentagon's plans to develop a limited defense, beginning with 100 interceptor missiles based in Alaska.
The current timetable for building the $60-billion system is based entirely on last year's estimate that North Korea could have the ability to hit the United States with nuclear- or chemical-tipped ballistic missiles by 2005.
In order to have a system in place by then, the Pentagon's Ballistic Missile Defense Organization needs to begin construction of its first sophisticated radar site in Alaska by next spring, and a decision must be made by President Clinton before then.
The new intelligence report on potential missile threats -- known as a National Intelligence Estimate -- was ordered by the White House to update last year's assessment as Mr. Clinton nears a decision.
Last year's intelligence report concluded that North Korea's long-range missile program had advanced much further than previously believed.
In August 1998, North Korea tested a three-stage missile, known as a Taepodong 1, by firing it over Japan. The third stage of that missile, which carried a small satellite, failed to reach orbit, but intelligence officials concluded that other aspects of the test had succeeded.
Last year's report concluded that the Taepodong 1 was not sophisticated enough to carry a nuclear warhead and that North Korea was more likely to put weapons on a more advanced missile, the Taepodong 2.
Officials said the new intelligence report had concluded that North Korea would still be able to field an intercontinental ballistic missile by 2005. "Certainly there is no evidence they have stopped their development program for the Taepodong 2," a senior defense official said.
The North Korean threat is not the only factor Mr. Clinton must consider before moving ahead, but the intelligence findings will support arguments made by supporters of a missile defense that the United States needs a defensive shield. Opponents are sure to seize on the diplomatic developments to argue for postponing a decision on deploying a shield.
Indeed, even before the summit meeting, the administration was struck by North Korea's relative opening after years of wary seclusion. In recent months, Mr. Kim has begun a flurry of diplomatic initiatives, including establishing relations with Italy, Brunei and Australia and applying for membership in forums of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean.
The North Koreans have also revived their on-again, off-again discussions with the United States. At the end of May, North Korean negotiators surprised their American counterparts during a meeting in Rome by asking to discuss their missile program, and a new round of talks is expected soon. Last week the North Korean Army agreed to resume cooperating with searches for the remains of American soldiers killed in the Korean War, and the first team is scheduled to arrive later this month.
"It is clear by looking at North Korea's behavior that something has changed in the last year, year and a half," the assistant secretary of state for Asian affairs, Stanley O. Roth, told defense writers before the summit meeting. "The hermit kingdom has become the hyperactive kingdom."
On Capitol Hill, Democrats and Republicans applauded this week's summit meeting as a welcome first step in defusing one of the world's most dangerous hot spots, but warned against dropping America's guard against North Korea.
Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican on the Intelligence Committee, spoke for many of his colleagues: "I would hope no serious person would assume we could change our policy on a dime just because of what happened in the last couple of days." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; RUSSIA; CHINA; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (55%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



466 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Flushing Journal;
A World Where Cars Meet Carnies

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
A young mechanic raced up to a woman in her 30's as she tooled down Willets Point Boulevard in her silver 1999 Dodge Stratus. "Hubcaps, you need hubcaps?" he asked.
"Not right now," she shouted, while continuing to drive through the sooty stretch of Flushing, Queens. Her hubcaps had been stolen three months earlier. 
 Less than a eighth of a mile down the road -- oil-slicked pavement, actually, where potholes are big enough to hide beach balls -- another mechanic popped out of an auto repair shop as soon as he spied the driver of the Dodge. "What you need?" he asked, hungrily. "What you need?"
And so it goes, seven days a week, in a tiny corner of grease and grime in the shadow of the No. 7 train and Shea Stadium. At least 70 auto shops honeycomb the boulevard and side streets, specializing primarily in repairs, body work, salvage and wreckage. Many of the shop owners make part-time barkers out of their mechanics because competition is fierce.
To some degree, Willets Point Boulevard is a graveyard for smashed cars, their parts treated like those of organ donors, replacing the deteriorated parts of once vibrant automobiles. Nearly everywhere there are displays of hubcaps and tires and advertisements for glass repair. Sometimes, hobbled minivans, tractor-trailers, buses and taxis inch down the boulevard.
Squat tin sheds painted bright colors line the streets and give the place the air of a funky third world bazaar. Despite the taxes business owners pay, there are no sidewalks, no storm drains and no sewer pipes. "The city doesn't even clean the streets," complained Moer Boty, a Moroccan immigrant who works in one of the shops.
Employees as well as proprietors are a gumbo of sorts. Hispanics, Caribbeans, Asians, East Indians, North Africans, Eastern Europeans and white Americans work side by side, attracting car owners from all over the metropolitan region with cheap prices.
Though there is competition, "there are no fights," said Dennis Skeahan, a barker who draws business to F&F Auto Salvage. "We all get along."
True, perhaps. A few doors down the road, a price battle was decidedly civil. Marlon Tucker drove to Willets Point from his home in Babylon, on Long Island, for rims for his wheels. He was prepared to do some comparison shopping for the car, a 1995 Nissan Maxima, which he keeps in white-glove condition.
Jay Singh, a manager at Eighteen Auto Tire Shop, was eager to sell and install the rims for $1,000, but a manager at a tire shop across the street was willing to do the same job for $700, although he did not have the rims yet. The managers and Mr. Tucker discussed the matter in muted tones, and in the end Mr. Tucker climbed into his car to do some more comparison shopping. "You got to give a brother a break," he said, looking at Mr. Singh and smiling. Mr. Singh shrugged.
Like a girl with a large dowry, Willets Point Boulevard has been highly sought after. People want to turn it into something other than an outdoor auto mall. Part of its allure has to do with its closeness to transportation links, namely the 7 train and the Van Wyck Expressway. There have been grand plans for the boulevard, flanked by the Van Wyck to the west and the Clearview Expressway to the east. There was a proposal to build the grounds for the 1964-65 World's Fair, as well as Shea Stadium. There was the idea of a domed football stadium in 1984, endorsed by the city and, until it got too complex, underwritten by Donald Trump. And more recently there was a proposal for a new baseball stadium for the Mets, along with a massive entertainment complex that would swallow the boulevard. But recently, the entertainment complex proposal was scrapped.
The Queens borough president, Claire Shulman, "once stated that the city wants the land for a higher use," recalled Joseph Ardizzone, 67, whose parents once owned the land -- wetlands, really, where they raised goats, chickens and vegetables.
Mr. Ardizzone still lives on Willets Point Boulevard in a 1932 Tudor confection sandwiched between auto repair shops. His residence is on the top floor, and he rents out a luncheonette on the first. Mr. Ardizzone does not pine for the days before the auto shops, though. "This is a busy and vibrant area, better for the economy," he said.
About a year ago, Willets Point's reputation was a bit sullied after an undercover police operation that resulted in the arrest of Carmine Agnello, the son-in-law of John J. Gotti, the imprisoned head of the Gambino crime family.
According to the police, Mr. Agnello insisted that undercover police officers posing as auto shop owners sell him crushed cars at very low prices. When the undercover officers refused, law enforcement officials said, he had his associates firebomb their business. Mr. Agnello was indicted and is free on bail. The police say that besides the shop owned by Mr. Agnello, there is one other shop linked to organized crime.
In general, managers say they acquire parts from salvage yards and auctions. But some customers have wondered if they were buying back their own stolen car parts.
Yet fans of Willets Point abound. Experienced customers know that they can haggle.
Willie Villon, whose favorite shop is Mario's Auto Repair, drove his nine-year-old black Acura Integra from his home in Danbury, Conn., to the Willets Point shop one Saturday. He needed some engine work. Mr. Villon paid $1,600 for a job that he said would have cost $3,000 in Connecticut.
"They're cheaper here," said Mr. Villon, 17, who made the hour-and-a-half trek with his girlfriend, Loan Tran, also 17. "They do a good job -- just as good as anywhere."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drive right up, folks, for a lesson in aggressive auto parts marketing. A customer waited in his car at Pomontty Auto Body near Shea Stadium, where competing mechanics shout out offers to passing drivers. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); NORTHERN AFRICA (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); NORTHERN AFRICA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REPAIR SERVICES AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (90%); TIRE DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (67%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE CARMINE AGNELLO (64%); JOSEPH ARDIZZONE (64%); JAY SINGH (64%); MARLON TUCKER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



467 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Flood Border in Arizona, Angering Ranchers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 15

 BODY:
As his anger rose against the waves of illegal immigrants crossing the border onto his cattle ranch, Joe Harris decided not to carry his gun anymore. He feared losing control and shooting someone, causing an international incident. Even so, he wonders now how much more he can stand.
"Things are getting very tense down here," Mr. Harris said, pointing to hideouts on his ranch that illegal immigrants had used to elude the United States Border Patrol. "The ranchers here are tired of nothing being done about it. We're tired of the garbage they leave. We're tired of them tearing down our fences. We're tired of losing cattle. We're tired of losing our way of life." 
 With new law enforcement resources making other crossing points along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico harder to penetrate, the rugged area around Douglas, a town of 15,000 people just north of Agua Prieta, Mexico, has come under siege by desperate migrants seeking illegal entry into the United States in hopes of finding jobs in cities as far away as Chicago and New York.
After federal agencies bolstered security at once popular crossing points like those at San Diego and El Paso, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, many of them with children, began flooding the Douglas area two years ago, risking inhospitable desert conditions, including poisonous snakes and daytime temperatures of well above 100 degrees.
But lately, they have encountered another threat: angry ranchers on the outskirts of Douglas who have grown so weary of border crossers tramping across their land in groups of 50 and more that some, taking matters into their own hands, have detained the migrants at gunpoint until Border Patrol agents arrived.
While the number of these ranchers is small, perhaps fewer than a half-dozen, and only one migrant has been injured by gunfire since Douglas has grown so popular, the ranchers' actions have drawn complaints from the Mexican government and organizations in Arizona that say the ranchers are violating the border crossers' human rights.
Even the rancher who the authorities say has been the most aggressive in confronting the migrants, Roger Barnett, says a serious incident is inevitable if the government does not do more to stem the northward flow of illegal immigrants.
"It's going to happen, with me or somebody else," said Mr. Barnett, who has used weapons to detain several thousand illegal immigrants on his 22,000-acre ranch in the last two years. 'I'm just sick and tired of all this. I don't want them crossing my place. If the government was serious, they'd bring in the U.S. Army. We're getting invaded."
Government officials, however, say the Border Patrol is making giant strides in the border battle. With more money each year from Congress, the agency has been able to use its expanding force and new technology, like night-vision cameras, to help catch some border crossers and discourage others. Those caught -- an estimated one of every three who cross -- are interviewed and fingerprinted, then sent back to Mexico, a process that takes only a few hours.
But historical patterns show that the successful cutoff of illegal immigration in one region pushes border crossers into areas of less resistance. As the number of illegal immigrants caught by the Border Patrol in the San Diego area fell to 182,267 from 524,231 over five years through last year, for example, border crossers discovered that the Douglas area was an easier entry point. The 12-foot walls adjacent to the customs checkpoint at Agua Pietra extend only a short distance, and the Border Patrol had only a handful of agents and little equipment.
In addition, Agua Pietra, a city of more than 100,000, is large enough to accommodate migrants arriving from all over Mexico and beyond, including some from Europe and Asia, as they wait for the elusive "guides" the American authorities regard as criminal smugglers to lead them into the United States. Guides are known to charge $1,000 and more per person to lead border crossings, and they risk arrest and prosecution if caught.
In the 1998 fiscal year, the 280-mile stretch of Arizona border known as the Tucson Sector, which includes Douglas, overtook San Diego as the busiest sector of illegal entry on the southern border, with 387,406 apprehensions. The total grew to 470,449 in the 1999 fiscal year -- more than twice the number of five years before.
In each year, more than 40 percent of the apprehensions occurred along the 28 miles of border flanking Douglas.
"It was terrible down here," said Carlos X. Carrillo, assistant chief patrol agent for the Douglas station. "Every night, local residents would be awakened at 1, 2, 3 o'clock in the morning by people jumping their fences, using their lawn hoses to wash, hiding on their roofs, knocking on their doors to ask for food and water. They were all over the place."
The shift from San Diego and El Paso and other entry points caused not only Douglas to change. Agua Pietra itself took on a new vibrancy as the border city adjusted to the arrival of an increasing number of travelers intent on breaching the United States border.
Busy streets near the customs checkpoint suddenly filled with pay telephones that Miguel Escobar Valdez, the Mexican consul in Douglas, said crossers used to ask relatives for money while they waited to make connections for entry into the United States. Also, small "guest houses" began opening to accommodate migrants, charging them the equivalent of a few dollars a night.
A receptionist at the Hotel Villa del Rey, a tiny building several blocks from the border that opened four months ago, said "the vast majority" of the six rooms were filled with people waiting to cross into the United States. Mr. Escobar said as many as 400 such places are now operating in Agua Pietra.
Many crossers cannot even afford the guest houses. Juan Marquez Garcia, a 28-year-old mechanic from Chihuahua, a city 300 miles away by bus, said he had been living in parks for nearly a month, trying to enter the United States to find work, only to get caught six times by American border agents. Now broke, except for a bag of empty soda cans to cash in for a few pesos, he said he planned to return to Chihuahua when he could raise $11 for bus fare.
Officials in the United States say people like Mr. Marquez prove that their security strategies in the Douglas area are beginning to work, as statistics for recent months show. Apprehensions in the Douglas area are beginning to fall. By adding resources and extending the border walls several miles on each side of town, Border Patrol officials say they are taking back control of the region, especially in town.
But just as increased security efforts elsewhere shifted patterns of illegal migration to Douglas, these patterns have more recently shifted again to desert regions beyond the extended walls, where flimsy barbed-wire fencing separates the two countries. As the Border Patrol waits for additional resources that arrive each month, crossers have plotted courses increasingly distant from Douglas and the highways they use for traveling north.
In these areas are the private ranches where crossers hide until they make connections, arranged by their guides, for transportation to northern cities, or they get caught.
Often, the immigrants hide for days at a time, and ranchers complain that they destroy water tanks for cattle, pipelines and fences. "Fixing them has become part of our way of life," Mr. Harris said. "Ranching is hard enough without doing all that."
Sometimes the immigrants grow so weary, scared or hungry that they initiate contact with the ranchers. Mr. Harris, who keeps a rifle by his front door, recalled a Mexican couple reaching his house one morning three months ago, asking for water and use of a telephone.
"Their guide had stranded them, telling them a ride would be along in a few minutes to take them to Phoenix," he said. "Since then, they had been living for two days in a culvert down the road with no food. When they showed up here, all they had was a Mexican can of Coca-Cola."
Mr. Harris insisted he felt compassion for people who wanted nothing more than a better life. But he and other ranchers said they believed that the United States government encouraged illegal immigration by failing to take more decisive action against companies that hire migrants.
Mayor Raymond A. Borane of Douglas, who favors a new "guest worker program" that would allow illegal immigrants to work legally in this country, said the current economic boom in some measure stems from the immigrants taking jobs that Americans did not want.
"They are helping drive our economy," Mr. Harris said. "And the money they send home helps the Mexican economy."
Indeed, Mr. Escobar, the consul, said illegal immigrants from Mexico in the United States had been sending back $6 billion a year, an amount that represents the third-leading source of foreign revenue in Mexico, behind tourism and oil.
So it is not in the interest of either government to clamp down, Mr. Borane said, expressing an opinion shared by ranchers in the area.
But that is not so, said Doris M. Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who cited the North American Free Trade Agreement as an example of efforts to bring Mexico's economy and living standards closer in line with those of the United States. She also said government agencies did what they could to pursue employers who hired illegal workers, using criminal and administrative remedies where possible.
Describing efforts along the border as "a work in progress," Ms. Meissner said the trade agreement "should and will help both countries, but in a 10- 20- 30-year time frame, not 1, 2 or 3."
"By regulating the border," she added, "we're buying time."
For now, though, that does little to appease people like Mr. Harris, who said he feared that ranchers bearing arms and angry attitudes could do nothing more than drive the problem somewhere else.
Surveying a sea of old clothes, used water jugs and emptied cans of refried beans, he shrugged. "I don't wish this on anybody," he said. "But I'd rather see the government solve the problem right here, right now. Otherwise, it only goes to another Joe Harris down the road."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: More migrants are crossing the border near Douglas, Ariz., where some were apprehended recently. Immigrants left trash on the ranch of Joe Harris, with his son, Joe. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 14)
 
Chart/Map: "OVERVIEW: Across the Border"
The Douglas, Ariz., border station is part of the Tucson Sector, which has the most apprehensions of illegal immigrants entering the United States on the southern border. Here are the apprehensions per year in the border stations that comprise the Tucson Sector. Phoenix, a part of the Tucson Sector, had no apprehensions in 1999.
 
Chart shows the amount of apprehensions per year
 
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BORDER PATROL (US) US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (83%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDER PATROL (US) US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (83%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; DOUGLAS (ARIZ); SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); FIREARMS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMIES (64%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (50%); DESERTS (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



468 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: As Murder Rates Edge Up, Concern, but Few Answers

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
With the number of homicides in some of the nation's big cities rising in 1999 and the first five months of 2000, after eight years of sharp drops, concern is rising among law enforcement officials and criminologists about whether the decline in violent crime has finally come to an end.
The evidence is too fragmentary, and contradictory, the experts caution, to draw a firm conclusion. Virtually all of the forces that contributed to the drop in homicide since 1991 are still in place: more criminals in prisons, innovative police strategies, intense community efforts to work with troubled youths, a waning of the crack cocaine epidemic and a strong economy providing more jobs in impoverished neighborhoods. But the available data do not include demographic information. 
 But in 1999, 5 of the 17 cities that have more than 100 homicides a year had an increase in killings, the first time since the early 1990's that slayings have increased in so many cities. Through the end of May this year, seven of these cities showed an increase from the same period last year. Together, these 17 cities accounted for more than a quarter of the nation's 15,600 homicides in 1999.
New York was the only city in the group to experience a rise in homicides in 1999 and the first five months of this year.
Concerns about crime have been heightened recently by shocking attacks in several cities. New York, for instance, has seen the killing of 10 cabdrivers, the fatal shooting of five employees in a Wendy's restaurant in Queens in May and a rampage in Central Park last weekend in which 50 women reported being groped or assaulted by young men.
But most police officials say that the upturns in homicide in 1999 and 2000 are simply a normal statistical variation after so many good years, which had brought homicide rates to their lowest point nationally since 1967. And some criminal justice experts agree with them, to an extent.
"Part of the increase in murder rates is simply that, at a certain point, you can't go any lower," said James Alan Fox, the Lipman professor of criminal justice at Northeastern University. "The rates have come down so far, they simply can't be maintained at such a low level."
To underscore this, Alfred Blumstein, a criminologist at Carnegie Mellon University, said he had calculated that if the decline in homicide in the 1990's continued at the same rapid rate, the United States would have no killings in 2007, an obvious impossibility.
In New York City, Police Commissioner Howard Safir contends the police may be victims of their own success in reducing the number of killings to 671 in 1999 from 2,245 in 1990. "I think the goal should be zero, but in a city of 8 million, the reality is you can only go so low," Mr. Safir said in a telephone interview.
He noted that the other categories of serious crimes, including robbery, assault, rape, burglary, theft and automobile theft, are down by 8 percent this year in New York. "So I don't think we've bottomed out on crime, but we may have bottomed out on murder."
In fact, after years in which New York officials have used the homicide rate as a measure of their success in making the city safer, Mr. Safir suggested it might be more accurate to look at the broader range of all serious crimes.
In 1999, New York had a 6 percent increase in homicides, and through the end of May this year there have been 269 homicides, compared with 248 in the same period in 1999, an increase of 8.5 percent. But Mr. Safir said that with the recent adoption of Operation Condor, which lets police officers in high crime areas work more overtime, there had been a small drop in homicides in May and so far in June, and he predicted that the total for 2000 would be about where it was in 1999.
Another difficulty in drawing conclusions from the national homicide figures for 1999 and so far this year is that there are no obvious patterns to account for the increases in homicide in the cities that have had them.
In Phoenix, which had a 15 percent increase in killings in 1999, Sgt. Jeff Halstead, a spokesman for the city's police department, said the rise could be largely attributed to the city's rapid population growth and its position near the Mexican border, with a large influx of drugs and illegal immigrants. "What we have seen is an increase in homicides related to narcotics and undocumented Mexican nationals making their way into the metro Phoenix area," he said.
In response, the Phoenix police put together a special homicide task force this year, with many of its members Spanish speakers, and the city has had a drop in homicides through the end of May, down to 63 this year from 91 in the corresponding period last year.
But in Los Angeles, which has had 181 homicides in the first five months of this year, compared with 159 in the same months in 1999, Jason Lee, a spokesman for the police department, said he has no explanation.
One theory advanced by some criminologists to explain the upsurge is that a new generation of teenagers, too young to have experienced the terrifying consequences of the crack epidemic of the late 1980's -- the shootings, gang fights and waves of imprisonment -- may now be looking for a new form of excitement. That might explain, Professor Blumstein said, an incident in Providence, R.I., on June 8 in which five young men forced two college students at gunpoint to get into their car outside a nightclub, then drove them to a golf course, tortured them and shot them in the head.
But Geoffrey Canada, president of the Rheedlen Center for Children and Families in Harlem who works with troubled juveniles, said he had not observed any trend of a return to the gun, drug and gang culture among teenagers in New York. "I've seen an increase in kids who are cut, with box cutters and razors, but not the return of lethality and guns," Mr. Canada said. "We haven't lost a kid in several years." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS CRIME RATES (94%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); MURDER (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); STATISTICS (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); COCAINE (55%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX HOWARD SAFIR (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



469 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Summer Work Is Out of Favor With the Young

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
Jack Brooks may look a middle-aged stockbroker on the surface, but beneath the starched shirt and tie beats the heart of a hometown hero, forged more than a quarter-century ago on his first summer job.
"Lifeguarding was my induction into life," said Mr. Brooks, who at 16 joined the Beach Patrol in Ocean City, N.J., and today is an associate vice president for investments at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "I drank my first beer as a lifeguard. I had my first romantic encounter as a lifeguard. It was much more than a summer job. It was more than I ever dreamed." 
 Time was, much of teenage America would have agreed: lifeguarding was the pluperfect summer billet.
Today, though, lifeguard jobs go begging, to the point where Ocean City has dipped deep into its personnel files and asked old-timers to come back and fill the empty stations. Mr. Brooks will return this summer on weekends, as will moonlighting lawyers, doctors, engineers and casino floorwalkers.
"If we had to depend on teenaged kids, we'd be hurting," said Bud McKinley, Ocean City's assistant captain for operations.
As go the beaches of the Jersey Shore, so go the workplaces of the nation. For the last 10 years, fewer teenagers and young adults have been venturing into the summer work force. Last year, even with desperate managers dangling finder's fees, tuition plans and other lures, just 62 percent of America's 16 million people between 16 and 19 years old were in the labor force, compared with a high of 71.8 percent in 1978, and the lowest percentage since July 1965.
The trend is most pronounced among young men, whose summer employment rate of 65 percent is down from 73.5 percent in 1989 and the lowest since the Bureau of Labor Statistics started keeping track in 1948.
The decline indicates that the lengthy economic expansion has given growing numbers of families the means to support their children as they learn new languages, travel and undertake other adventures, and many parents are proud to be able to offer their offspring opportunities they never had.
But the shift away from summer jobs also suggests that tens of thousands of teenagers are missing out on what some consider a hallowed American coming-of-age experience and, arguably, a social leveler that gives the college-bound a fleeting taste of working-class life.
Droves of teenagers and young adults have been signing up for summer school, from remedial reading and math to advanced-placement courses and exotic enrichment programs. In July 1994, 19.5 percent of Americans aged 16 to 19 were in school. By July 1999, 26.8 percent were.
A decade of unparalleled affluence may be prompting some parents to give youngsters money, reducing their need to work. For other teenagers, the boom still means working, but in jobs that put them on career tracks more quickly, not in the sweaty, low-paid and mind-numbing slots that have long been their lot.
Rapidly rising college tuitions may be turning off teenagers, since a summer's earnings will no longer make much of a dent in expenses. The current intense competition for university admissions also appears to be a factor, with teenagers using summers to add sizzle to their applications. It is assumed that music camp or a hands-on biology lab will impress more than a stint stocking shelves in a supermarket.
"It could be the result of the high-stakes testing that's been instituted in a lot of the states," said William Rodgers, chief economist at the Labor Department.
For adolescent-development specialists, the waning of the summer job comes as a surprise. Teachers, psychologists and occupational-health experts have been arguing for years that young Americans are working far too much for their own good.
But with a tide of teenagers turning away from summer jobs, some are raising a new concern.
"It could mean that the social divide that's happening gets worse," suggested Jeffrey A. Joerres, president and chief executive of Manpower Inc., the big temporary-employment company. Mr. Joerres worked as a house painter on his summer vacations, he recalled, and bonded with a crew of tattooed and ponytailed men who were not going to college.
"If somebody asked me, 'What did you learn?' I'd probably say, 'Well, I learned to put up scaffolding,' " Mr. Joerres said. "But in fact, I was learning other lessons. There are some life experiences that go unlearned if you take the professional track all your life."
In today's tight labor market, though, college students who seek summer work through Manpower expect to get serious, white-collar positions, Mr. Joerres said, and they are not disappointed.
"They've really shot themselves in the foot," said Mr. Brooks, who traces much of who he is today to his time under the sun as a lifeguard.
Mr. Brooks revered his first boss, "a big, barrel-chested guy who was in the Navy," he said.
"He had a soft side, but you always knew who was boss. I think, in a lot of ways, the management style I've adopted in my life is a lot like that old captain."
Not only that, Mr. Brooks said, but it was a partner from that first summer job who got him into financial services, and former lifeguards still round out his client list today.
But others see few such benefits in putting teenagers to work.
"When you have your kids working as soon as they're 13, 14 years old, the spring just goes out of their step," said Theresa Miller, a mother and writer in Tatamy, Pa.
Mrs. Miller's father had to work throughout high school to buy clothes, she said, and felt robbed of an adolescence. So when she was in high school, he let her try a paper route, but stopped her when she started looking tired. He promised she would not have to work again until she was out of college. Now she wants to do the same for her son, who went to science camp last summer and will study music this season.
"We've counseled him to be a kid as long as he can, and as long as we can afford it," she said.
There is a large and contentious body of scholarship on whether teenagers should or should not be working.
Some research shows that working adolescents get worse grades, sleep less and are more prone to dropping out of school. But other studies show that working teenagers stay in school longer, flounder less, do just as much homework and enjoy better mental health.
The effects seem to depend on the nature of the workplace. There is some evidence that young people thrive in well-ordered workplaces, where their assignments are clear and mature supervision is never far away.
But high stress and a lack of job supervision have been found to cause depression in teenagers, and the effects can linger for years.
Barbara Schneider, a University of Chicago sociologist, conducted a survey of 7,000 teenagers and concluded, among other things, that the healthy, teenager-friendly workplace is getting harder and harder to find.
Consider the car-loving youth who, 25 years ago, might have sought satisfyingly greasy summer work in a filling station, changing oil and tuning engines under the tutelage of an experienced mechanic. Today, that youth probably cannot get such a job, Dr. Schneider said. Cars come with modular components, and repair garages want mechanics with junior college certificates.
And instead of avuncular mentors like Mr. Brooks's captain, today's teenagers are apt to have supervisors not that much older than themselves, Dr. Schneider said. They get little training, make mistakes, are yelled at by customers. Then they quit in frustration.
"It's really problematic," Dr. Schneider said.
Randstad North America, an Atlanta-based company that provides temporary staff members, recently studied generational attitudes and found that today's teenagers, unlike their parents, want jobs where they are taught something.
"It's logical," said Daryl Evans, a Randstad marketing manager. "They grew up in an environment of technology changing every 12 minutes. There's this incredible motivation to keep up, or a fear of falling behind."
Sean Stevens, a junior at Georgetown University, is a good example. "I know it sounds arrogant, but my time is worth more than $8 or $10 an hour," he said. "I've got a whole lot of other things to do."
Mr. Stevens, who already speaks fluent Korean and Russian as well as good Japanese, Spanish and German, is leaving this weekend for a summer at a university in South Korea. He even managed to shoehorn in an internship at the World Bank in the four weeks between spring finals and his trans-Pacific flight.
"People want to make themselves look good on resumes," Mr. Stevens said. Just having a degree and a few summers waiting tables is no longer enough, he said. "You have to have a selling point, something to distinguish you from everybody else. You want to stand out."
But such sentiments do not always go down well with adults for whom low-skilled summer jobs were enough.
"To just spend more time reading American history and playing soccer is not the same as getting out into the world and having experiences," said David Davenport, the departing president of Pepperdine University in California, who admits he irritates faculty by asserting without end that he learned more frying doughnuts in his father's bakery than in any university. "We're crowding out the well-rounded development of our children."
Last summer, in keeping with his convictions, Dr. Davenport decided his daughter, Kate, should get a job as a chambermaid, even though Kate wanted to go to soccer camp.
"You'd think the world had come to an end," Dr. Davenport said. But he persisted and Kate ended up stripping beds and cleaning rooms at the conference center Pepperdine operates each summer on its Malibu campus.
Today, Kate does not even remember the fight about attending soccer camp. A summer of hard work and low prestige have left her sounding like a convert to her father's cause.
"At Malibu High School, most of the students were doing marine biology camps and SAT prep classes," she said dismissively. "I don't miss that environment at all."
Asked if her summer job gave her any thoughts about a career, the 17-year-old Ms. Davenport drew a blank. But as for what she plans to do this summer, she did not miss a beat.
"I've heard the money in construction is good, $10 an hour to start," she said. "I think it's important to know how to build things."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sean Stevens, a Georgetown University junior who speaks fluent Korean and Russian, says his time is worth more than the $10 an hour many summer jobs pay. He will spend the summer at a South Korean university. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
Graphs track percentage of 16-to 19-year olds in school, July of each year, the percentage of 16-to 19-year olds working, July of each year, and the area of work they are in. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); BEACHES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CHILDREN (89%); LABOR FORCE (88%); ADOLESCENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PARENTS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TUITION FEES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TRENDS (68%); STATISTICS (64%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (63%); 

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS JACK BROOKS (83%); JEFFREY A JOERRES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



470 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Concerns About Crime
An increase in homicides in some big cities has prompted concern that the decline in violent crime has finally come to an end. PAGE 12 

The Politics of Prosperity
Many voters seem to take the nation's economic boom for granted, leading to a rethinking of the political rules. PAGE 20
 
Bug Spraying Canceled
City health officials called off plans to spray insecticide in Queens after a test chicken was found not to have the West Nile virus after all. PAGE 29
 
The Power in the Music
Can popular music change the world? The three-woman punk rock band Sleater-Kinney, with its frighteningly grand sound, makes it seem possible. ARTS & LEISURE

Marx Brothers Festival
Gary Giddins reviews a life of Groucho and a Groucho anthology, both by Stefan Kanfer, and Simon Louvish's "Monkey Business," an account of the whole family. BOOK REVIEW
 
America, or Death
Forty-four Haitians, crammed into a 23-foot boat, try a desperate passage to the United States, with a writer and a photographer onboard to witness the horrors they endure. MAGAZINE
 
Along Scotland's High Road
A drive on the far side of Inverness and an overnight rail trip on a Caledonian Sleeper lead to sweeping Highland vistas and a storied past. TRAVEL 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (51%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CRIME RATES (91%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); INSECTICIDES (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); WEST NILE VIRUS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); WRITERS (67%); VIRUSES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



471 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Strategists See the New Economy in a New Light

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., June 17

 BODY:
Eight years after the Clinton campaign adopted "It's the economy, stupid," as its mantra, the presidential race of 2000 has raised an intriguing question: has the new economy changed some of the old rules of politics?
It has long been a maxim that the economic health of the nation goes a long way toward determining who wins the White House. Voters reward the party in power for good times and punish it for bad. By rights, this should bode well for Vice President Al Gore as the Clinton administration presides over a 112-month economic expansion, the longest in the nation's history. 
 But as Mr. Gore set off on his "prosperity and progress" tour this week, staking his most forceful claim yet to the administration's economic legacy, polls showed him lagging behind Gov. George W. Bush of Texas when Americans were asked which candidate they trusted more to handle the nation's economy. And Mr. Bush, for his part, simply shrugs off those who say that the nation's prosperity will ultimately derail him.
"If people want four more years of Clinton-Gore," Mr. Bush told an audience in Connecticut late last week, and "all that matters is the stock market, I'll be the governor."
In part, Mr. Bush, like Republicans throughout the Clinton years, is calculating that concerns about the president's character and unease with society's moral tone will prove stronger than the economy.
But some Republicans also say they are seeing something else this election year. Like the economists who wonder whether the expansion has repealed some of the fundamental principles of the business cycle, these strategists suggest that the boom has changed politics. The country has now been so prosperous for so long, they assert, that voters simply take good times for granted.
"When Clinton got elected in 1992, people thought the economy was in the toilet and good times would not come back again," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who has been doing research for MSNBC. "Today everyone thinks that they are going to make money. Young people are more entrepreneurial than ever before. More people are in the stock market. It's so much of a given that the economy is good that no one is saying thank you."
Mr. Bush's aides make a slightly different argument: that in this economic boom driven by high technology, people view the titans of e-commerce and the computer age as the job creators, not the government.
"I think the American people instinctively know a lot of today's economy and a lot of today's prosperity was created by the young entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley," said Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's communications director.
Another Bush adviser pointed to a Fox News poll taken last month showing that Americans overwhelmingly give more credit to William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, for creating jobs than they do to President Clinton. "One of Gore's fundamental problems is he's not getting any credit for the good economy," the adviser said.
And in some ways the Bush campaign is as vested in this faith in the new economy as Mr. Gore is, though for different reasons. In making his proposal to divert some of the Social Security payroll tax into private investment accounts, Mr. Bush is gambling that with half of American households now holding stock, voters will not see the stock market as more risky than having a guaranteed Social Security benefit.
Democrats argue that prosperity will still sway voters come Election Day and note that Mr. Clinton has consistently won extraordinarily high approval ratings for his stewardship of the economy. A New York Times/CBS News Poll taken in February found that an unprecedented 73 percent of all Americans said they approved of the way Mr. Clinton was handling the economy. Indeed, 88 percent said the national economy was in good shape, a far cry from the 23 percent who said that about the economy in 1992, when Bill Clinton defeated President George Bush.
The challenge for Mr. Gore, his supporters say, is to convince voters that when it comes to the economy, it matters who is president.
"The danger to Gore is not that people don't give Clinton credit for the economy but that people think the economy is so good Bush couldn't possibly screw it up," Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, said. "He needs to make the case why Bush represents an economic risk for middle class Americans."
Mr. Gore took up that challenge this week when he went beyond his previous warnings that Mr. Bush's proposals were risky, a strategy that had left him looking like the candidate of the status quo. This week, he made the argument that the administration had given Americans the tools to succeed and that he would continue to do so. He then set out alternatives to Mr. Bush's proposals.
So instead of diverting some Social Security payroll tax to individual investment accounts as Mr. Bush would, Mr. Gore proposed to create similar savings accounts on top of Social Security.
Instead of Mr. Bush's 10-year, $1.3 trillion across-the-board tax cut, Mr. Gore would offer $500 billion in cuts aimed at particular purposes like college education. And Mr. Gore's aides hope to contrast his advocacy of education and environmental programs with Mr. Bush's support for a missile defense system.
Mr. Gore's aides say that these choices will work to their benefit in the fall with the moderate middle. "We think the dynamics are going to be very different probably come convention time or Labor Day," Douglas Hattaway, a Gore spokesman, said. "The election is not about who gets credit for the economy so much as who will make the right choices for the future," Mr. Hattaway said.
A key question is how voters will respond to Mr. Gore. Mr. Bush has spent months trying to erase doubts about his intellect and to raise questions about whether Mr. Gore is enough of a leader to take advantage of the good economy.
The governor's spring blitz of policy speeches showed him setting the campaign's agenda. And he used the speeches to charge that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore were squandering the good times instead of dealing with longer-term problems.
"At a time for leadership -- for long-term thinking -- my opponent proposes a Band-Aid approach," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Gore in his speech proposing Social Security investment accounts to deal with the strain on Social Security's finances when the baby boom generation retires.
In Ohio on Friday, he tried to undercut Mr. Gore, portraying the Democrats' tax cut proposals as products of polling. "America doesn't want a focus-group driven presidency," he said, and added later, "I'm not one of those people who likes to chase after public opinion."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore began a tour last week to make a case that he has helped promote "prosperity and progress" over the last seven years. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); HISTORY (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



472 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Far Off Broadway, Even the Stars Are Paid in Subway Fare

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
A show opened on 14th Street last week and will close next week. Most people will never even know it happened. Those who stumble upon it may be disappointed by the lack of scenery, props and costumes or by the fact that cast members read their lines from scripts.
They may also be bothered by having to follow paper signs up to the second floor and around a corridor to find the 99-seat auditorium in the Sol Goldman Y.M.H.A. on East 14th Street. 
 But once they pay $15 for a ticket, settle into chipped metal chairs and open photocopied paper programs, audience members may well be pleasantly surprised by what happens on stage. The new production of the 1958 Jean and Walter Kerr musical, "Goldilocks," features the fresh -- and in some cases, slightly weathered -- faces of 14 actors and actresses who can belt out a song, sell a dance number and pull off a slapstick sequence or a love scene.
All this, even though their only pay is $3 a day for subway fare and they had only two weeks to rehearse for the production, which ends next Sunday.
The show -- produced by a two-year-old organization called Musicals Tonite, which presents plain pipe-rack concert versions of neglected musicals -- is emblematic of a certain level of theater happening every night in New York City. It flies below the radar of reviews. It is unknown to even the most stalwart of theatergoers.
There are four tiers of production laid out by the Actors Equity Association, the actors' union, defined by a series of economic yardsticks. Musicals Tonite is in Tier 1, the lowest, in which a producer can pay Equity actors nothing for their work, with the exception of carfare, when needed. On any given night in the city, there are 20 to 30 such shows going on in various, often out-of-the-way stages around town.
Mel Miller, the 57-year-old former computer salesman behind Musicals Tonite, said he created his company precisely because he realized that the city was full of talented people, forgotten material, willing audiences and not enough work. So he left his most recent career, moderating focus groups, to create a four-show season of musicals, each with a budget of $15,000. In the last two years, the company has produced shows including "King of Hearts," "Look Ma, I'm Dancing" and "Dearest Enemy."
Mr. Miller is the company's entire administrative office: he hauls the few pieces of scenery (like the potted trees in "Goldilocks"), takes the tickets, arranges for the cookies and crudites for the cast party. And, aside from a few small donations so far, Mr. Miller has been footing the bill from his savings. As a result, every costume rental is a calculation.
For "Goldilocks," Mr. Miller sprang for the only bear suit the play required. It was "a function of what I can afford, or how much I feel I can afford to lose," he said. "What's a laugh worth every night of a 16-night run? Ten dollars? Twenty dollars? If the director thinks he can get a laugh from a costume that cost $16, that's a dollar a laugh a night. I'm going to spend that. That's worth it."
And what's in it for the actors? The opportunity to be seen by casting directors or agents who are invited to the performances, though they don't usually come. A chance to polish their singing, acting and dancing -- and to play a lead role instead of being cast in the chorus.
They do it because they figure it's better to be working than not working, even if they are working for nothing.
"It's not like a corporate ladder -- the next step up, the next step up," said Michael McKenzie, who has the lead role, a scheming movie director, in "Goldilocks." "You can be on Broadway and then suddenly you're back in the basement of a church in a corner dressing room with water dripping on your head."
While one might expect just a handful of actors to trickle in for auditions for a show that does not pay any money, there was a steady stream of men and women going into the audition room at Actors Equity studios earlier this month -- six people every 20 minutes -- day after day for five days. They proffered their beaming photographs and lengthy resumes and sang their hearts out. (Most casting calls let people get through only a few bars; Musicals Tonite's musical director, Mark Hartman, who also receives the same carfare wages, as does the director, lets actors sing the whole song.)
The resumes were revealing. Among the venues the actors listed were the Alabama Shakespeare Festival, the Copa Room at the Sands Hotel, the Eugene O'Neill Theater on Broadway and the Disney Cruise Line. Among the "special skills" listed at the bottom of the resumes were "burp on cue," "giving manicures," "lamp repair" and "screaming and playing piano with toes."
Some of the actors were merely between projects; some were desperate for work. Thomas Mills, who directed "Goldilocks," said the difference was immediately clear. "You see it when people walk into an audition if they haven't worked in a while," Mr. Mills said. "They carry an apology with them."
Mr. Mills, 38, who himself has managed to make a living in the theater by directing cabaret acts and industrials -- live presentations for companies -- including a recent show celebrating Sony Walkman's 20th anniversary, said there were also those who came in with palpable confidence. "They walk into a room with the energy of, 'You should watch me,' " he said.
He said he had been struck by the general quality of talent and the number of actors eager to sign on for something with no pay. "One of my main competitors is the Census Bureau, which is paying $18.50 an hour," Mr. Miller said. Musicals Tonite may have a leg up on the government agency by offering actors a forum, he said. But, he added, actors "also want to eat."
Many of those chosen for "Goldilocks" support themselves with other work. Mr. McKenzie was recently the maitre d'hotel at a restaurant on the Upper West Side. James Patterson, who plays George, the leading lady's foppish fiance, has worked the front desk and gift shop at a hotel. Erin Malloy, a member of the ensemble, is a hostess and waitress at a restaurant on Columbus Avenue.
Musicals Tonite rehearses only during the evenings, so that actors can get to their day jobs or go to auditions.
Although Ms. Malloy, who comes from Pennsylvania and will turn 24 next Sunday, stood out in the ensemble on opening night, she said the last six months had been her longest acting dry spell. "I'm just not exactly what people are looking for right now," she said.
Doing a show like "Goldilocks," actors say, helps to get through the droughts, along with taking dance, acting and singing classes. ("Sometimes just going out and eating a big old banana split will do it, too," said Jen Celene Little, who plays Lois, who aspires to be a star.)
Even though some of the cast members have been on Broadway or toured in big-budget musicals, several said they did not consider a production like "Goldilocks" beneath them. At least they were working, they said, and not having to leave town to do it.
"There are people who say, 'I'm going to be a star,' " Mr. Mills said. "Most of the actors I've met want to be employed."
Georgia Creighton, who plays Bessie, a wisecracking matron, in "Goldilocks," said she usually did commercials, but because of a strike by commercial and television actors, she could not take those jobs. "This was a shot in the arm," Ms. Creighton said. "It was activity. And it was activity that I like."
Even though the road from tryout to opening night lasted little more than two weeks, there were bumps along the way, as there always are with Musicals Tonite -- one actor dropped out because he got a paying part. But no one complained about the cramped space at Shetler Studios on Eighth Avenue, where signs warn, "Absolutely no rehearsing in the halls." Nor did anyone complain about weekend rehearsals. The principals never balked at being able to run through songs and scenes only once because big dance numbers needed more of the rehearsal time.
Mr. McKenzie, who grew up in Nebraska and Massachusetts and moved to New York in 1979, has been in an episode of "Law and Order." He replaced an original cast member in this season's "Waiting in the Wings" on Broadway and will understudy a role in "The Man Who Came To Dinner," with Nathan Lane.
"I stay at it because the rewards, when they come, are so great," said Mr. McKenzie, who is in his 40's. "It carries you through, gets you through the quieter times or the truly frustrating or horrible times."
Even though the actors say they try to control their expectations about who might show up at performances, it is difficult. Who might be out there? An agent or producer offering a big break? Most of the time, no. People who come to Musicals Tonite performances find out about the shows through listings in The Village Voice, word of mouth, or industry talk. Mr. Miller also sends out 15,000 postcard announcements through a mailing list provided by the Theater Development Fund, a nonprofit group that runs the TKTS booth and sponsors theater support programs. Musicals Tonite is not listed as a business; people who want information and reservations can call Mr. Miller at (212) 362-5620.
He said he had about 120 subscribers who pay $60 for the season, not all of whom come to every production. Usually, the auditorium is half full.
The first performance of "Goldilocks" had the excitement of any opening night. A few casting directors, like Warren Pincus of the Goodspeed Opera House, a regional theater in East Haddam, Conn., had reserved tickets for the coming performances. There was even a celebrity in the audience -- Elaine Stritch, who starred as Maggie in the original production of "Goldilocks" on Broadway. She came for the first act and went backstage at intermission to offer congratulations.
"You remind me of me," she told Cathy Trien, who plays Maggie. "Granted, there are 30,000 years between us."
There have been a few more ups and downs. One performance had to be canceled because Ms. Trien had a conflict: a part in a Chris Rock film.
Kelly Mealia, an ensemble member, was also offered a paying role, but stayed put -- which Mr. Miller said brought tears to his eyes.
Meanwhile, the players hunker down as if heeding the admonition from Ms. Stritch: "O.K., kids. Have fun."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday reported on the wide variety of low-budget theatrical productions around New York City making use of the city's huge pool of unemployed talent.
The article was illustrated by a photograph of four dancers from the unpaid cast of a production of "Goldilocks" rehearsing in front of a large mirror. The picture was made with a panoramic camera at a very slow shutter speed, in which the film is exposed from left to right over a period of a full second (compared with a standard speed ranging from one-thirtieth to one-thousandth of a second). Because of the very slow speed, the dancers' images as reflected in the mirror were caught at a slightly later moment, so they looked different.
This camera technique had an unusual effect in print, raising questions among some readers about whether there had been digital tampering with the image. To forestall such questions, the explanation of the unusual staggering of images should have been explained in the caption.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The unpaid cast of "Goldilocks" had a mere two weeks to rehearse before a 16-night run in a 99-seat auditorium in a Y on East 14th Street. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Cathy Trien as Maggie in "Goldilocks." A bear costume made the cut for the low-budget production. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUSICALS TONITE; ACTORS EQUITY ASSOCIATION MUSICALS TONITE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSICALS TONITE; ACTORS EQUITY ASSOCIATION MUSICALS TONITE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; WAGES AND SALARIES THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); CITY LIFE (87%); DANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; MILLER, MEL WALTER FRANCIS KERR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



473 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 5; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Behind Bedford School Budget Fight: Economic and Ethnic Divisions

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: BEDFORD

 BODY:
WHEN voters in the Bedford school district rejected the proposed 2000-2001 school budget last month it seemed like just another story of a defeat due to a price tag that was too high.
After all, voters had also rejected budgets in Elmsford, Harrison, Tuckahoe and Valhalla. But in Bedford, it seems, it is not so simple. 
 While almost no one will be quoted on the subject, many residents believe the budget defeat is, at least in part, a result of class and economic divisions in the sprawling district and a largely unspoken resentment toward the growing Hispanic population in the village of Mount Kisco.
One resident said that some voters would like to reduce the number of non-English-speaking students, whom they view as an economic burden. The original budget proposal, for example, included 3.4 new teaching positions for English as a second language.
The resident speculated that were it not for the Hispanics in the district, there wouldn't be a problem passing the school budget. There are 324 non-English-speaking students in the district, representing about 8 percent of the total 3,900 enrollment, with 80 percent of those students speaking Spanish.
Hispanic residents refused to blame anti-Hispanic sentiment for the budget defeat. But many said they suspected that proposed cuts were aimed at programs that would benefit Hispanic students.
Besides Mount Kisco, the district includes Bedford Hills and the wealthier communities of Bedford Village and Pound Ridge.
The $67 million budget, which represented an 8.5 percent increase over last year, was defeated 1,836 to 1,370. But in a reversal of the usual pattern, where the less affluent tend to vote down school budgets to keep their taxes down, Mount Kisco voters approved the budget, 253 to 247, while Bedford Village rejected it, 606 to 323.
"It's a tale of two districts," said Janet Foster, an organizer of Parents for the Educational Development of Students, which advocates the interests of academically gifted students. "The tension in the district is because we're not homogeneous. We couldn't be more all-over-the-place. There is diversity, and for a lot of us, that's the appeal. But all the diversity makes it hard to get a consensus."
The district will have a second chance to seek consensus on Tuesday, when a revised budget, showing a 6.1 percent increase over last year, goes to a vote.
The new budget adds two teaching positions for English as a second language, rather than 3.4, and adds an instructional assistant.
Many parents believe that it is especially hard to find common ground when the five neighborhood-based elementary schools would seem to promote neighborhood, rather than district, loyalty. There may not be much in common between the multi-acre spreads of Pound Ridge, where there are many weekenders who are not involved in the schools and there has even been talk of seceding from the district, and the more compact houses and lots in Bedford Hills and Mount Kisco, where there are also condominium and apartment complexes.
Paul Alcorn, the retiring school board president, said: "There's great support for neighborhood schools, and less sense of responsibility to all seven schools, because the district is so big. It's geographically big and ethnically big. There's more at work than economics, including a large degree of complacency."
Beyond the Hispanic presence, other issues simmer close to the surface.
As some see it, the school budget's defeat represents an attempt by some residents who oppose what they consider unnecessary frills, like after-school homework clubs, to force the district into an austerity budget.
Under state law, any district that fails to pass a budget on its second attempt must adopt an austerity budget. Spending would be capped at 2.64 percent above the previous year's budget, except for expenses directly related to enrollment increases; allocations for supplies would be eliminated, the district could not buy new equipment or undertakeany capital improvement projects. It would also mean that Mount Kisco Elementary School, which has been without a permanent principal, would go through another year with a temporary administrator.
Besides the revised budget of $65,341,508, residents will vote on a separate $488,500 proposition to cover after-school homework clubs and transportation; special arts-in-education programs; some capital improvements, like the renovation of windows at the Pound Ridge Elementary School; a gifted and talented program, a summer academy and additional academic support services.
Some residents have been outraged by the spate of vituperative letters and fliers that have been distributed attacking the budget. For example, in May, Phil Christie, a resident, sent a letter to a local paper listing the salaries of district teachers and administrators. Others in the community believe there has been a deliberate disinformation campaign intended to persuade people that the budget is improperly financed.
Susan Preece, a Mount Kisco parent with two teenagers, said: "It's been real nasty and incredibly contentious. It's very frustrating."
The district has had its share of problems in the past.
It drew widespread attention when three parents filed a lawsuit several years ago contending that activities at the school violated their families' religious beliefs because of instances in which some children were playing a fantasy trading card game called Magic: The Gathering. The game was used in an after-school enrichment program and as an extra-curricular activity.
The district also drew a slap on the wrist from the state's education commissioner, Richard P. Mills, in May for a decision to help finance a student trip overseas.
At meetings earlier this month to explain the revised budget, handouts were distributed to rebut allegations that the district's $16,484-per-pupil spending was higher than the tuition at some private schools. The handouts also compared teacher salaries throughout the county and listed additional budget cuts like after-school homework clubs and elementary intramural activities.
Susan O' Brien, a parent who lives in Mount Kisco, said: "We're making a huge effort to pass the budget, in trying to get the correct information out. Rumors spread fast, and people bought into the myths in a big way."
Another parent, Paula Sharp of Mount Kisco, said: "I don't care how people vote. I just want them to be informed. I want to know that people have the facts."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last week about the school budget in Bedford misspelled the surname of Philip Christe, a resident, and misstated how he publicized the earnings of top school administrators. He did so in an advertisement in a local newspaper, not a letter to the editor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marguerite Kirby, left, receives information on the revised school budget from Susan O'Brien and Naomi Gorstein as they canvassed their Mount Kisco neighborhood. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: POUND RIDGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: POUND RIDGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEDFORD (NY); MOUNT KISCO (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (88%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); PARENTS (75%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); GIFTED EDUCATION (73%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



474 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9;Page 9;Column 4;Society Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Michelle Friedland, Daniel Kelly

 BODY:
Michelle Taryn Friedland, the daughter of Sandra and Thomas S. Friedland of Scotch Plains, N.J., was married yesterday to Daniel James Kelly, a son of Marilyn and James F. Kelly of Montgomery Village, Md. Judge Philip S. Carchman of the Appellate Division of State Superior Court in Trenton, officiated at the Grounds for Sculpture in Hamilton, N.J.
The bride and bridegroom, both 27, met at Stanford University, from which he graduated and she received a master's degree in electrical engineering. 
 Ms. Friedland, who is keeping her name, studied ethics and political philosophy at Oxford University, where she was a Fulbright scholar. She received a law degree from Stanford this month, and on Aug. 1 is to become a law clerk for Judge David S. Tatel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Next year, she is to become a clerk for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the Supreme Court.
Her father is the president of Harper Industries, a clothing manufacturer and importer in Clark, N.J., and an economics lecturer at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. Her mother is a writing instructor at Kean University in Union, N.J., and at the Cranford campus of Union County College. She is also a freelance medical writer and editor.
Mr. Kelly is a design engineer for wireless communications technology at Cisco Systems in San Jose, Calif. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Maryland at College Park. His mother, a registered nurse, is the site coordinator of the shingles prevention study at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in Bethesda, Md. His father is a physicist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Md.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report last Sunday about the wedding of Michelle Taryn Friedland and Daniel James Kelly misstated the degrees they received from Stanford University. She received a bachelor's degree, and he received a master's in electrical engineering, not vice versa.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Karen McLean Peterson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); PHILOSOPHY (76%); ETHICS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); WRITERS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (70%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (68%); NURSES & NURSING (66%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); SHINGLES (64%); APPAREL MFG (52%); 

PERSON: FRIEDLAND, MICHELLE TARYN; KELLY, DANIEL JAMES DAVID S TATEL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



475 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 1;Column 3;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2966 words

HEADLINE: California Dreamin';
Harvard Business School Adds Silicon Valley to Its Syllabus

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
IF there is an intellectual center of big business, it is the immaculately maintained faux-Georgian campus of Harvard Business School, for nearly a century the training ground for the people who run and advise the world's largest companies. From turning out future chief executives of I.B.M., Merck and Procter & Gamble to being the home of strategy gurus like Michael E. Porter, Harvard has practically stamped its crest on the large industrial companies that defined the 20th-century economy.
But "the West Point of capitalism," as the school is known, has spent the last few years behaving like anything but an academy of big business. Instead, Harvard has undergone a transformation worthy of the case studies that are the hallmark of its M.B.A. curriculum. This one goes something like this: Fearing new kinds of competition, an industry giant changes how it does business to remain relevant and retain its dominance under a new set of economic rules. 
 The crux of the changes is an effort to reorganize Harvard around the study of entrepreneurial ventures, be they dot-com start-ups or divisions of large companies trying to act like small companies. Those are the places that many Harvard students want to work today, and they are the businesses that occupy the thoughts of the nation's most sought-after academics. The shift has touched every Harvard student and has caused the business school -- the world's richest, best-known and most influential -- to start a series of initiatives in Silicon Valley, where Stanford, its most important rival, is pre-eminent.
The M.B.A.'s who received their diplomas earlier this month here, across the Charles River from Harvard University's main campus in Cambridge, were the last who were required to take general management, once the school's signature course. Students now must enroll in a first-year class called "The Entrepreneurial Manager."
Over the past school year, more than one-quarter of the electives chosen by second-year students were in the entrepreneurship department, which 20 years ago consisted of just two classes. Next year, 40 students will opt out of regular classes for two months to receive credit for working inside mostly small companies in Silicon Valley and Massachusetts. Already, officials have taken to boasting that Harvard sends more graduates to the valley than any other business school.
"We need to change, indeed get out in front of the parade, to continue to attract these bright 25-year-olds," said Jay Light, a Harvard professor for 30 years and one of the school's senior associate deans overseeing the curriculum changes. "If we don't maintain our relevance for what they want to do with their lives, there's a problem."
The shift brings some significant risks. In essence, Harvard has allowed its current students' interest in working for small companies -- an interest that cynics might brand a grasp for instant riches -- to play a major role in shaping its curriculum for the next decade. And while the Internet may be here to stay, the stock market's recent volatility suggests that entrepreneurial fervor may be more fleeting. The consolidation spree of the last decade also indicates that large companies -- indeed, ones larger than in the past -- will continue to dominate the economy.
Yet Harvard, as it reinvents itself, could alienate the big-company recruiters who have faithfully trekked to Boston every autumn for decades. The school has made "quite a radical set of changes," said Adrian J. Slywotzky, a vice president at Mercer Management Consulting near Boston who has often written about large organizations' attempts to reinvent themselves and who received his M.B.A. from Harvard in 1980. "Large companies could say, 'I'm not sure how Harvard is serving me,' " Mr. Slywotzky said.
Harvard professors, however, say that the economic changes of the last five years have forced them to act and that, in any event, they are not really leaving behind the study of big companies. Almost like a mantra, the professors repeat word-for-word a definition of entrepreneurship that they say applies to General Electric as well as it does to a dot-com operated out of a garage: the pursuit of opportunities beyond means that are currently available.
"We think of entrepreneurship not as a personality type or as a stage in the life cycle of a business but as a way of managing," said Kim B. Clark, the dean since 1995, whose overhaul of the business school has earned him mention as a candidate for Harvard University's presidency, now vacant. "The concepts of leadership that are important now and are going to be important in the future spring out of an understanding of entrepreneurship."
Rosabeth M. Kanter, a professor of management, added, "Big companies are dying to behave more like start-ups."
In the broadest sense, Harvard is simply catching up to its alumni. The school teaches students to think like general managers -- chief executives or presidents -- but not all of the 800-plus Harvard M.B.A. graduates each year can end up in such jobs at big companies. In fact, about one-third of graduates who have been out of Harvard for at least 15 years own their own businesses, according to studies done by the school.
Now Harvard is arguing that it, more than any other institution and more than the hands-on experience of working at a start-up, can help today's students become entrepreneurs quickly. That argument is part realpolitik and part intellectual. The school gives students access to one of the economy's most powerful professional networks -- a Harvard keiretsu that includes all those earlier entrepreneurs, as well as dozens of venture capitalists and the founders of dozens of recent dot-coms.
At the same time, the two years away from working life gives students time to think through a broad range of business problems, to take risks that they could not if actual dollars were at stake and, possibly, to even come up with their own business plans. "We run a simulator where people are taking live shots at them," said William A. Sahlman, a longtime professor of entrepreneurship. "This is the big time, but still low risk. You can't get that in the outside world."
Regardless of whether Harvard's transformation ultimately succeeds, it is already being felt far beyond Boston. Every year, Harvard's publishing house sells some six million copies of the school's famous case studies to other business schools and organizations. So unlike, say, Berkeley's physics department or Yale's law school, Harvard Business School has a direct and immediate effect on the curriculum of hundreds of its peers.
In other words, it just isn't at Harvard that business students are now learning about companies that most of them had never heard of.
 
Playing Catch Up
Prof. Paul Marshall was settling in to plan the last week of the semester when one of his teaching assistants offered a blunt assessment of the situation. "It's coming apart!" he said. One of the final case studies for Harvard's new core class in entrepreneurship would contain sensitive information that eStyle -- the Internet retailer that was its subject -- was unwilling to release on Harvard's timetable.
The professor would have none of it. "Then pick up the pieces and run across the finish line," Mr. Marshall recalled telling the assistant. Sure enough, Harvard got eStyle to release the case in time for it to be printed, though students had to rush through reading it in two days, rather than the usual few weeks. Call it business school on Internet time.
"The faculty is scrambling like hell" to keep up with developments in the business world, Mr. Marshall said.
Students say the class was uneven at times, but most agree that it was still much better than studying how Caterpillar might cut costs by a percentage point or how a Procter & Gamble manager should market a new brand of tissues -- the sort of topics and companies on which Harvard's case studies had focused for decades.
This is just one way that the school is a very different place than it was five years ago, when Mr. Clark became dean. Netscape Communications had just gone public, and thousands of college students across the country were already addicted to e-mail. But Harvard Business School, one of the richest of any kind and one supposedly with a foot in the real world, had not given e-mail accounts to its students.
"We were so far behind in 1995; we were, like, way, way behind," Mr. Clark said.
He figured that the school could prosper by helping managers think about how to deal with the ways that technology was altering the corporate landscape -- or that it could fall behind its peers quite rapidly. "My sense was that we were at an inflection point, and we needed to seize the moment and take action," Mr. Clark said.
Some of the changes were straightforward. By the first week of 1996, every student and professor had an e-mail account and could connect to it from all over campus. Harvard's case studies soon included spreadsheets tied to real-time data sets and videos.
Altering the curriculum was more complicated, and more profound. Until the mid-1980's, the school offered only one or two entrepreneurship courses; many faculty members saw the subject as unworthy of rigorous study. "It was pretty lonely," said Howard H. Stevenson, who has taught entrepreneurship at Harvard since the early 70's.
As the technological shifts of the last 20 years took hold, however, the market changed all that. Students clamored for such classes, and the faculty's interest grew, too. The entrepreneurship department now offers some 18 courses taught by 28 professors, who range from lifetime academics to a co-founder of the Staples office supply chain.
The most significant change is the switch of the required first-year class from general to entrepreneurial management. In 1990, the case subjects for the class included Bank One, Caterpillar, Colgate-Palmolive, General Electric, Honda, Nike and Pepsi-Cola. This year, the lineup included perhaps only two companies that a layman would recognize as major corporations -- Charles Schwab and Intuit. Among the others were Bitstream, Chemdex.com (now part of the Ventro Corporation), Go Fish and Onset Ventures.
Mr. Marshall and his teaching assistants are not the only ones to find the transition bumpy. Last year, Mr. Clark felt it necessary to send a memo to professors forbidding them to serve on the boards of companies started by current students. And students have been pushing the career services office to do more to help them wade through the dozens of dot-coms that would eagerly hire a Harvard M.B.A.
The more important question, however, may be what the changes will mean for corporate America. After all, generations of Harvard M.B.A.'s have filled the ranks of the country's consulting firms, investment banks and corporate giants. Now many of the most talented students are starting their own businesses or joining smaller companies.
Harvard's decision to cater to that clientele, some people fear, could produce a group of budding executives with a much firmer understanding of how to raise venture capital than of how to steer a global enterprise. All the while, the world's corporations are becoming ever more complex as they swallow up rivals and stretch across international borders.
"There is a risk to our generation all working in 10- and 50-person companies," said Kevin M. Lalande, 28, a member of Harvard's class of 2001 who started two companies between his undergraduate work and business school. "Later on, it's going to be much more difficult to find people who have the kind of experience to run a multinational."
 
Rivals? What Rivals?
Harvard University is not given to paying much heed to its competition, and the business school generally fits the institutional mold. "We don't think of ourselves as competing with other schools," said Mr. Light, a senior associate dean, when asked to name Harvard's closest rival. "We think of ourselves as producing knowledge."
That is often a surprisingly insular process. Of the 28 professors in the entrepreneurship department, 13 hold a Harvard M.B.A.; an additional 7 have other Harvard University degrees. Ask them where they studied and some pause briefly before replying, "Here." The answer is so obvious that the question seems almost to take them by surprise.
But "here" is not exactly the center of the new economy; that would be 3,000 miles west of Boston, and Stanford Business School is in the midst of it.
Stanford admits only one of every 13 applicants, making it almost twice as selective as Harvard by that measure. By reputation, Stanford has won a place alongside Harvard as one of the two best business schools in the country, most students agree, a notch above the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, the University of Chicago, Northwestern and Columbia. In the most recent ranking by U.S. News & World Report, Harvard and Stanford tied for No. 1. "We are each other's biggest competition, by far," said Robert Joss, Stanford's dean. "In fact, our second-most-important competition is students who decide not to go to business school."
All of this presents a challenge to Harvard. It may have the advantage of better name recognition than Stanford, and more resources, but as the case studies often point out, such benefits do not guarantee success in the new economy. Indeed, if Harvard became the school of big business and the old economy while its cross-country rival was identified as a training ground for the new economy, it could look forward to the same kind of problems that business icons like General Motors have suffered in recent years.
The analogy is not lost on Mr. Clark. A graduate of both Harvard College and Harvard's doctoral program in economics, he spent much of his academic career studying innovation at automobile companies, among others. It was Mr. Clark who, during yet one more long trip to the Bay Area a few years ago, conceived the notion that Harvard should establish a beachhead in northern California.
After a typically frustrating search for Silicon Valley real estate -- agents offered sites like the third floor of a decrepit Victorian house and an office without a single parking place -- the California Research Center finally opened on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park in 1997. And if the name on the door and the address are impressive -- America's most prestigious university setting up shop on Silicon Valley's BMW-lined boulevard of venture capital and innovation -- the research center is not much to look at. It is a typically charmless suite of small second-floor offices that Harvard shares with a technology development firm.
"We have visitors come in, especially from Asia, and say, 'This is it?' " acknowledged Christina Darwall, the office's director and a former software entrepreneur. "A lot of these people pull up in their big, long limousines. They're expecting marble."
There is no marble, but a steady parade of Harvard professors -- more than a third of the faculty, so far -- have tramped through the research center since it opened. Ms. Darwall and a small staff keep in closer touch with Silicon Valley companies than Harvard professors ever could from Boston, writing some case studies themselves and opening doors for the faculty to write others.
"People are busier here, and it doesn't mean as much to them to be in a case," Ms. Darwall said.
At the same time, Harvard wants its paying customers to feel that studying at the business school can include time in Silicon Valley. So the center helped organize a job-hunting trip that sent more than 500 Harvard students to California during their winter vacation last year. Harvard has also begun conducting executive education programs in the valley, with about half of the students coming from the region.
Of course, all this has raised a few eyebrows at Stanford, which has not exactly welcomed its Eastern counterpart with open arms. When Harvard officials were planning the research center, they approached Stanford about collaborating. Stanford never responded, Ms. Darwall said. Still, Mr. Joss, Stanford's dean, says he is not worried about Harvard's presence. "We welcome the fact that they're interested in and engaged in the ideas out here," he said. "We have the real benefit of being right in the heart of the action."
Indeed, many people in Silicon Valley consider Stanford the more forward-thinking of the two. "They still think Harvard is an old school that teaches old tricks," said David Cowan, the managing general partner of Bessemer Venture Partners in Menlo Park, who received a Harvard M.B.A. in 1992. Yet based on his discussions with students and professors now at Harvard, Mr. Cowan believes the school has changed significantly.
"When I went, I felt at the time I had made a mistake and should have gone to Stanford," he said. Now, he said, "I sure wish I had gone to Harvard Business School more recently than when I did."
Harvard professors, true to their institutional instincts, tend to brush off the notion that they are increasingly competing with Stanford -- noting, for example, that they often collaborate with Stanford professors.
But there may be a bit more rivalry than the professors acknowledge. One does not have to spend much time on the Boston campus to hear a few disparaging, if often light-hearted, comments about the Palo Alto campus. Mr. Sahlman, the entrepreneurship professor, even has a Stanford parking permit and a tattered Stanford pennant pinned up in his office.
The permit reminds him of one downside of crowded Silicon Valley. The pennant was a gift from a class of students, Mr. Sahlman said, "because I made fun of Stanford so much."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on June 18 with an article about changes at the Harvard Business School improperly compared one aspect of the school's admissions with a different aspect of admissions at the Stanford Business School. For Stanford, the chart showed the percentage of applicants who were accepted; for Harvard, it showed the percentage of applicants who were accepted and then actually enrolled. A corrected version, showing the acceptance rates for both schools, appears today on Page 9.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harvard Business School's California center in Menlo Park. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); Kim B. Clark says the business school was "way, way behind," in technology when he became dean in 1995. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 16)
 
Drawing (Illustration by Leo Monahan; photograph of Harvard Business School class of 1911 courtesy of Harvard University)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Highly Selective"
Gaining admission to the top business schools has only gotten harder -- and Stanford is even picker than Harvard.
 
Chart shows the percentage of applicants admitted to both Harvard and Stanford
 
(Source: Harvard University, Stanford University)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CASE STUDIES (69%); TRENDS (68%); STARTUPS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



476 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Easy Being Equal

BYLINE: By Alan Ryan; Alan Ryan is the warden of New College, Oxford.

 BODY:

 Sovereign Virtue
 The Theory and Practice of Equality.
 By Ronald Dworkin.
 511 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $35. 
 Ronald Dworkin is perhaps best known today for his part in a recent and acrimonious argument with Judge Richard A. Posner. The bone of contention was Posner's reflections on the assorted forms of misconduct that had brought President Clinton to the brink of impeachment; and Dworkin caused a stir by arguing that a sitting judge had no business making the adverse comments on President Clinton's honesty that enlivened Posner's little volume. "Sovereign Virtue" is far removed from that controversy, though certainly not from all controversy. Indeed, the arguments in "Sovereign Virtue" are highly controversial. Dworkin makes a plausible case for the strikingly implausible idea that equality is the sovereign political virtue, and then illustrates this claim with sharply pointed discussions of such topics as abortion, affirmative action and the role of money in politics.
The first half of the book is political philosophy of the most austere sort, impressively well argued, and difficult enough to provide a well-trained graduate student with a semester's work. It pursues into the last recesses of analysis the proposition that the fundamental principle that should govern our politics is equality. Contrary to the intuitions of most of us, Dworkin argues, it is equality rather than liberty, equality rather than national glory, equality rather than the inculcation of virtue in the citizenry, that we must pursue. The second half applies Dworkin's views on equality to a variety of contested political questions: Is the high cost of health care in the United States an affront to justice? Does the role of money in American politics frustrate a democratic dedication to free speech? May the state criminalize behavior -- prostitution, for instance, or the sale of pornography -- that it considers a sign of bad character? Does the new knowledge provided by the science of genetics call for the government to play God in deciding what we may and may not do to enhance the genetic endowment of our children?
The chapters on these subjects are for the most part slightly reworked essays from The New York Review of Books, but they read as though they were written for the present book. For two decades Dworkin has been an astonishingly coherent and consistent thinker -- not, to all readers, a wholly persuasive thinker, and to many critics entirely unpersuasive. Still, almost everyone who has read his polemical essays agrees that they all hang together, that there is an underlying philosophy that lends an almost startling unity to Dworkin's views on the most disparate subjects. A belief in campaign finance reform is not, on the face of it, a conviction that necessarily suggests passionate views on abortion or genetic modification; nor do most of us feel that our views on abortion run naturally into our views on affirmative action.
Many of Dworkin's critics have complained that he treats commitments that are in the final analysis purely political as if they were the dictates of pure reason. Other critics have complained not so much that the positions advanced are political, as that the philosophy behind them is continuously adjusted, reinterpreted and shaded in such a way that we never know quite what his underlying philosophical convictions are. And some, of course, have complained of both things at once. For those of us who admire his work, the pleasure of following him into the most intricate corners of jurisprudential and philosophical speculation outweighs whatever doubts we may have about its coherence.
Dworkin devotes the stiffest part of "Sovereign Virtue" to an explication of the thought that the fundamental virtue of any society is equality. The equality in question is not a simple equality of income or wealth -- not, that is, the equality we would get if we simply divided the gross national product of the United States by the entire population and arrived at so many dollars per head. Why not? The question is not absurd; the French revolutionary Gracchus Babeuf advocated something very like it in the early 1790's, and was guillotined for his pains.
Jeremy Bentham, too, began from the view that because most people get a decreasing amount of happiness from each successive addition to their income and wealth, the way to maximize the total happiness of a society is to distribute wealth and income equally. It is not equality but departures from equality that need explaining and justifying. An equal share-out of society's goods is self-evidently the place to start from. The plausibility of this view does much to explain why economists who would defend capitalism to their last breath still feel obliged to justify the inequalities and injustices of a capitalist economy as an inevitable part of a system that is a better bargain than an egalitarian economy, not so much for the rich as for the poor.
Dworkin is, one might say, to the left of Bentham and to the right of Babeuf. He does not think that equality consists in sharing out whatever we happen to have available at present; but he does not believe that inequality is justified whenever it produces more happiness in total. What he cares about is fairness, not maximizing happiness. How do we know whether people have a fair share of the good things our society's productivity makes possible? We make what economists, following the physicists, call a "thought experiment."
Imagine that everyone starts with an equal amount of something -- cowrie shells, iron bars, glass beads -- that serves as a currency. We then auction off everything that will help us in leading an interesting and fulfilling life; after one round of the auction we ask if all are happy with the lots they have purchased. If anyone isn't, we run the auction again. That is equality of resources; and that is a fair distribution of whatever we find necessary, useful and agreeable.
To decide whether our society is a fair society, we ask whether we can imagine it being the way it is simply on the strength of what people might have done with the resources they got in the auction. A very inegalitarian society might well be a just one. If my deepest wish is to sit on a beach in Maine fishing for bass, I might cheerfully forgo stock options in Microsoft to do it. If I have a passion for gambling, my fortunes might ricochet up and down without anyone having reason to think it all very unfair.
But the differences in wealth, income, health, education, access to political influence and the rest of it in countries such as the United States and Britain are so extreme, and persist so powerfully from one generation to another, that it is impossible to believe that they merely reflect different tastes and talents, and different preferences about how we should spend our time. It is impossible not to believe that most -- by no means all -- of the inequality reflects the fact that the better-off can buy the political influence that enables them to ensure that they can pass on their good fortune to their children and their friends without hindrance.
It takes no great imagination to see that an egalitarian of Dworkin's stripe will wish to deprive money of the role that it plays in American politics. The claim that buying politicians is an expression of the principle of free speech gets short shrift. What a democracy is supposed to be about is the equalization of political impact, and buying politicians is as likely to be a threat to freedom of speech as it is to be an example of it. It is only slightly harder to see that Dworkin's egalitarianism would support a more extensive welfare state than the United States so far possesses, and that it would also support a national health service more generous than Medicaid and Medicare -- and better financed than the British system.
When buying resources at our imaginary auction, one of the things we'd buy is insurance against ill health, unemployment, destitution in old age and so on. A theorist who can work out how much insurance the average person would buy knows how large a welfare state a rational society ought to provide. Individuals can then top up social provision as they like. But it is less obvious that Dworkin's egalitarianism will take us far into the realm of contentious social issues like abortion. Indeed, it is clear that egalitarianism is beside the point. What decides the moral argument in the case of abortion is the wickedness of making other people's deepest and most difficult decisions for them and enforcing your own view by law. True enough, there is an inequality involved in this: in effect, I decide about both my life and your life, and you don't decide about either. Still, it remains far from obvious that it is this inequality that matters rather than -- as the Supreme Court decided -- the privacy and the sanctity of our intimate relations. But the pleasure of reading "Sovereign Virtue" is that although few of Dworkin's conclusions are self-evident, his arguments are dazzlingly clever. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SOVEREIGN VIRTUE: THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF EQUALITY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); IMPEACHMENT (77%); JUDGES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ABORTION (73%); LITERATURE (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (64%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (61%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); 

PERSON: RYAN, ALAN; DWORKIN, RONALD BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000



477 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Expansion of Medical Benefits Puts Vermont in the Vanguard

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., June 15

 BODY:
Lorraine Lacaillade, a 75-year-old widow in Bolton, about 25 miles southeast of here, lives on about $12,000 a year, most of it from Social Security. She takes prescription drugs for arthritis and other conditions that would cost more than $1,000 a year if she had to pay for them herself.
But this is Vermont, a state in the vanguard of offering health benefits to its residents. Under the Vermont Health Access Plan, a program for people who are earning just enough to make ends meet, Mrs. Lacaillade only pays $3 a month for her medicine. 
 "Medicine is awfully expensive today," she said. "The old people need some help."
That is the prevailing philosophy here, embraced by the Democratic governor, state legislators from both parties, doctors and, clearly, the public.
The array of health benefits that Vermont provides its residents -- not just the elderly but also children and low-income adults -- is unmatched by any other state.
And while many of Vermont's programs would not work in larger and more urban states, other aspects could serve as models. Today, 93.5 percent of all Vermont residents have health insurance, including essentially all children. By contrast, only 63 percent of low-income children in Texas and 60 percent in Arizona are insured.
"It is my view that health insurance ought to be universal, the right of every citizen in Vermont," Gov. Howard Dean said in an interview.
Under a program called Dr. Dynasaur (some marketing wizard thought up the odd spelling), the state has guaranteed free medical and dental care to every resident age 18 and younger from a family with income below about $50,000 a year.
Adults with income below 150 percent of the federal poverty line are entitled to medical coverage for a nominal fee. The poverty line, for instance, is $8,350 this year for a single person and $17,050 for a family of four. That means a single adult earning less than $12,500 is eligible, as is a family of four with less than $25,500.
In addition, health insurance companies are required to sell policies to residents who request one, and must provide them at the same cost to all customers, regardless of their age or medical history.
Here is what this can mean for a family: Gary and Sheila Clayton live in Burlington, barely making ends meet. He is a glazier for a company that does commercial and residential glass work. She works part time as a clerk in a doctor's office. They have three children, 12, 10 and 5. If they took family health insurance through Mr. Clayton's employer, it would cost $89 a week.
But the Clayton children are covered by the Dr. Dynasaur program. And under the Vermont program for families with incomes only slightly above the poverty line, Mr. and Mrs. Clayton pay only $40 every six months for their own coverage.
When Bradley, the 5-year-old, was born, he spent a week in the hospital in the neonatal care unit. The hospital bill was almost $10,000; Dr. Dynasaur paid all of it.
Mr. Dean, a Democrat, and his wife, Judy Steinberg, are physicians, and the generous health benefits are largely his doing.
He took office in 1991 determined to pass legislation that in one fell swoop would provide health coverage to everyone in Vermont. His bill was similar to the one offered by the Clinton administration in 1993, and it was defeated in the State Legislature in 1994, just months before the Clinton plan died in Congress.
So Mr. Dean began implementing the plan gradually -- extending coverage to low-income adults one year, providing drug coverage to the elderly another, expanding coverage for children another. This year, 28,600 elderly and disabled Vermont residents, about one-third of those on Medicare, are receiving drug coverage under the state program. The Dr. Dynasaur program covers 55,000 of the state's 145,000 children.
"I now realize that the only way you can do this is incrementally," he said. "You do it piece by piece and bit by bit because you can't take on every special interest all at once."
Part of the cost of the expanded benefits is picked up by Washington under the Medicaid program. But the state's share is considerable, which is why other states have not adopted similar measures.
With advances in health benefits paralyzed in Washington because of partisan warfare, Mr. Dean has accomplished his goals with little Republican opposition.
"Health care is not a partisan issue in Vermont," said John H. Bloomer Jr., a Republican leader in the State Senate. "Generally speaking, it's a bipartisan goal to expand health care access and affordability."
Vermont is hardly typical. It is a rural state with a population of about 591,000, less than Milwaukee's. Ninety-eight percent of the residents are white, and there are almost no new immigrants. The poverty rate is somewhat below the national average, but so are wages and per capita income.
Mr. Dean conceded that if Vermont were less remote, his program of requiring insurance companies to offer health insurance at the same rates to everyone would not work. People with serious, chronic illnesses would move in just for the insurance, he said.
But larger states could learn from parts of the Vermont experience.
Not too long ago, for instance, Vermont had a serious problem with teenage pregnancy. Now, it has the lowest rate of adolescent pregnancy in the nation. The governor credits the Dr. Dynasaur program for the decline.
Dr. Joseph F. Hagan Jr., a pediatrician in Burlington, was not willing to give all the credit to the program, but he said it certainly made a difference.
For one thing, Dr. Hagan said, teenage girls go to the doctor more often now than they did when they had to pay for it, and they are getting counseling and sex education. For another, the program pays for birth control pills and other contraceptives. Girls can get them without their parents having to pay the bill -- in fact, without their parents even knowing.
People who work with the elderly said they could also see the difference since the state's health programs became more extensive.
"If they didn't have the insurance, they wouldn't take their medicine," said John Barbour, executive director of the Champlain Valley Agency on Aging.
The situation is not without drawbacks. Take the case of the Cookson family in Huntington, a small community east of here. Owen Cookson is a construction foreman who made good money with overtime in the summer and little in the winter. Marie Cookson works out of their small A-frame house preparing income tax returns. They have three children. Mr. Cookson has $50 a week withheld from his paycheck for employer-provided health insurance that starts after a $4,000 annual family deductible has been met.
Their son, Nathan, 12, had to go to the emergency room recently with an inflammation. That bill was $400, and the family faces hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars in bills for additional tests.
If this had happened in the winter, the bills would have been paid by Dr. Dynasaur, which covers deductibles and copayments for families with private insurance. But eligibility is calculated monthly, and Mr. Cookson earned enough in May, one of the months when construction work is plentiful, to push the family's monthly income above the cutoff.
"This is going to be a lot of money we're paying out," Mrs. Cookson said. "And we can hardly afford it."
Some doctors are also concerned. Dr. Thomas A. E. Moseley, a pediatrician at a rural health clinic in Newport, near the Canadian border, said he had seen a huge difference because of Dr. Dynasaur in the number of children receiving preventive care.
"This is the Holy Grail of pediatrics," Dr. Moseley said. But 75 percent of his practice involves Dr. Dynasaur patients. He is paid at the Medicaid rate, which is often not enough to cover his costs, he said.
"It's a mixed blessing," Dr. Moseley said. "The problem is far from being solved."
Mr. Dean is also worried. The costs of the health benefits are rising. Drug costs alone are rising at a rate of 18 percent a year. The state has a budget surplus now. But if the economy turns sour, he says, he may have to ask the more affluent families on the Dr. Dynasaur program to make copayments.
Meantime, he said, he hoped to install a program that would allow everyone in the state with income below 300 percent of the poverty level to get prescription drugs at the same lower rate paid by Medicaid, the federal-state health insurance program for the poor.
He calls it another incremental step.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 93 percent of Vermont residents have health insurance, in part because of an array of benefits that the state provides. Lorraine Lacaillade of Bolton, Vt., takes prescription drugs that cost more than $1,000 a year, but she pays $3 a month. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VERMONT, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); DENTAL INSURANCE (87%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AGING (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); INSURANCE (66%); 

PERSON: HOWARD M DEAN (54%); HOWARD DEAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



478 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Accuses U.S. of Raising the Danger of War

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 18

 BODY:
Four days after reconciliation talks, North Korea today accused the United States, which has 37,000 troops stationed in South Korea, of increasing the danger of war on the Korean peninsula.
"The United States imperialists pretend to be interested in peace and detente on the Korean peninsula, but their actions only result in increasing the danger of war and escalating tensions," said the Rodong Shinmun, the leading newspaper of the North Korean Workers Party. 
 The accusation, which was carried by the North's overseas news outlet, the Korean Central News Agency, came just two days after the United States said it had no plans to withdraw American troops from South Korea, despite a landmark agreement between the two Koreas to pursue peace and reunification.
North Korea has long demanded the removal of United States troops based in the South, arguing that the Americans were preparing to go to war. Coming on the heels of the meeting last week, today's denunciation seemed intended to thrust the United States firmly into the middle of the Korean peace effort -- a position that Washington has sought to avoid, encouraging the Koreas to negotiate their own peace.
Now that North and South are inching closer together, the United States appears unwilling to give up its presence on the peninsula, a development North Korea may exploit.
Today's pointed statement from North Korea did not specify how the United States was increasing tensions. But the Communist country objects both to the strong American presence here and to American plans for a missile defense shield that Washington says is primarily intended to guard against attack from North Korea.
American intelligence and military officials say that North Korea is developing long-range ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons. North Korea is concerned, regional analysts say, that the United States will share its missile defense system with Washington's allies in Asia.
Park Young Ho, director of the Center for North Korean Society and Human Rights, a government-funded research institute, said that "North Korea plans to use the issue of the troops and the theater missile defense as a bargaining chip, which has the potential to derail the entire process" of reconciliation between the two Koreas.
"In the aftermath of the Korean summit, North Korea is hardening its position through peace," Mr. Park said. "It wants more positive security assurances from the United States."
American officials have welcomed the summit meeting as a positive step toward easing tensions and expressed support for further talks, but they have ruled out discussion of withdrawing American troops as premature.
"Any discussion of troop strengths or any number of other issues will have to be addressed as the process moves forward," a spokesman for the National Security Council, Lt. Col. David B. Stockwell, said today.
Appearing on CNN on Saturday, Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, the Republican chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said it was time to reconsider the deployment in South Korea.
"And after deliberation, we can determine whether it's time to bring them out," he said. "It's too early for anybody to say we ought to bring them out now."
South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, and North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, signed a broad pact last week calling for ending decades-long aggression on the peninsula, reuniting of families separated by war and forging economic and other ties.
On his return to Seoul, the South Korean president declared that the danger of war on the peninsula had disappeared. But tensions remain high along the demilitarized zone, the heavily fortified buffer that divides North and South. North Korea has close to one million troops situated in the DMZ, while South Korea has stationed half a million soldiers there, backed by the 37,000 American troops.
South Korean military officials have long argued that their troops alone cannot deter an invasion by North Korea. They also depend on the United States for military intelligence. A recent South Korean military report concluded that North Korea had stockpiled between 2,500 and 5,000 tons of biological and chemical weapons.
Aides to the South Korean president said that during the Pyongyang talks Mr. Kim had explained to his North Korean counterpart exactly why a continued American military presence was necessary for regional security. The officials declined to describe the response.
The United States spends about $3 billion a year to maintain its troops in South Korea. To help shoulder the burden, Seoul pays Washington about $315 million a year in cash, and provides $1.3 billion in tax breaks, free use of land and other benefits.
Public opinion polls taken since the summit meeting indicate that most South Koreans believe that war is now highly unlikely and that reunification will take place within 5 to 10 years.
Even before the summit meeting, there were growing voices of opposition to American military bases in South Korea. On Saturday, hundreds of people demanding a withdrawal of United States troops clashed with the riot police near an American Air Force bombing range about 50 miles southwest of Seoul. The anti-American protests have increased since early March, when a United States fighter jet with engine trouble dropped six bombs on the range. United States and South Korean investigators said the bombs had caused no injuries, but local villagers said six people had been hurt. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



479 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Ethiopians and Eritreans Sign Cease-Fire

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, June 18

 BODY:
The war between Ethiopia and Eritrea came to an official halt today, closing two years of fighting in one of the fiercest wars in Africa, as the nations signed a preliminary cease-fire and agreed to work toward a final settlement.
The two nations' foreign ministers, who did not speak to each other during the negotiations, shook hands after the 15-point document was signed in Algeria. 
 Haile Woldensae, the Eritrean foreign minister, said it was "the first concrete step toward peace between the two countries after a useless war." His Ethiopian counterpart, Seyoum Mesfin, called the agreement "historic."
Mr. Woldansae's characterization of the war as "useless" has often been used to describe the border war that has crippled two economically developing countries and killed tens of thousands of its young men and women. It has also uprooted hundreds of thousands of Eritreans and destroyed, for perhaps many years, the once close relationship between the two nations.
The document signed today is not a final cease-fire, but it does provide detailed plans for disengaging the two armies and devising a lasting solution. Most important, the plan calls for creation of a 15.5-mile buffer zone along the border, all in Eritrean territory, acknowledging Ethiopia's gains on the battlefield since the latest round of fighting began on May 12. But in a concession to Eritrea, its officials and citizens may return to the buffer zone as negotiations progress on the final accord.
The plan also calls for United Nations peacekeepers to patrol parts of the zone, as well as the main areas of contention. Those areas are likely to include Zalambessa and Bure to the east, and Badme to the west, where the hostilities began in May 1998. Eritrea has claimed pockets along the 620-mile border as its own, under colonial treaties, and had moved troops into those zones. They were pushed back by Ethiopian troops in the last month of fighting.
The United Nations has not yet approved a peacekeeping mission and so there are no estimates of its size, duration or timing. But this is a time of increasing skepticism about peacekeeping missions in Africa. Peacekeepers were taken hostage in Sierra Leone, and a cease-fire in Congo -- where such a mission has already been approved but no soldiers have been deployed -- has been repeatedly violated by all sides.
Anthony Lake, a former American national security adviser who helped broker the agreement today, echoed remarks by other foreign officials that this proposed peacekeeping mission is "different" from others. He noted that the armies of the two participating countries are "highly disciplined" and that the leaders of both nations are committed to the agreement.
"The good news is that each of them -- repeatedly over the last two years and again today -- said they were very serious once they signed about implementing it," Mr. Lake said in a telephone interview today from Algiers, where he attended the signing ceremony.
"I think there is a very strong reason to believe this will not be like other cessation of hostility agreements on other parts of the continent," he said.
The most important element of the final peace accord will be the demarcation of the border -- which was never settled when Eritrea, for a generation the northernmost province of Ethiopia, gained its independence in 1993. The question will be settled technically by United Nations cartographers, using old colonial treaties and other documents.
Like other officials, Mr. Lake portrayed the signing today as a ray of hope for Africa, at a time when the continent is torn by so much conflict in places like Sierra Leone, Angola, Congo and Burundi. He and others noted that the accord was largely the product of the Organization for African Unity, which will also oversee how it is carried out.
If the peace accord works, Ethiopia and Eritrea, which had been seen generally as two stable nations with promising economies, may be back on track for development. "There is a growing stereotype that what Africans do is kill each other," he said. "That simply is not true."
"The fact is that most Africans want to live in peace, just like most Americans and everyone else," he added. "I worry that the stereotype to the contrary is going to damage our ability to work with them in the coming years. So I hope this is one ripple of reality against this stereotypical current."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seyoum Mesfin, left, the Ethiopian foreign minister, and Haile Woldensae, his Eritrean counterpart, with President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria after signing a cease-fire agreement in Algiers yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Ethiopia highlighting proposed buffer zone: The plan calls for a 15.5-mile buffer zone on the contested border.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ERITREA (97%); ETHIOPIA (96%); ALGERIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); KENYA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ERITREA (97%); ETHIOPIA (96%); ALGERIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); KENYA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); ARMIES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



480 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous Coal Mines Take Human Toll in China

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: DATONG, China

 BODY:
"Sometimes it happens with no warning," explained the man as he emerged from eight back-breaking hours underground, rubbing his coal-smudged face.
"Sometimes you hear a creaking sound," he said of the final seconds before a tunnel collapses. "Then you hear pop-pop-popping and you run as fast as you can to get out." 
 In eight years of dreary toil, the last two of them here in northern China's coal capital where he came in search of better wages, 35-year-old Jin Qian has seen cave-ins and fires and explosions. He has heard the tell-tale creaking and run for his life, and he has seen co-workers get obliterated.
But far more routine, he and other miners say, are the physical injuries that can leave a worker maimed for life. They speak of broken arms and crushed fingers, of hands split by picks, of battered ribs and collapsed lungs.
This is the harshest face of coal mining in China -- a country that produces more coal than any other in the world and that, its own alarmed officials admit, has probably the world's worst mine safety record.
"China's produces one-fourth of the world's coal, but accounts for four-fifths of the world's coal-industry fatalities," Wang Shengshen, a mining engineer at the Chinese University of Mining, said at a recent conference.
Zhang Baoming, head of the State Coal Industry Bureau, said in a journal article this March that accidental deaths in China's coal mines "have wavered at around 10,000 a year." Those are the official numbers, which mining experts here say are an undercount and do not begin to account for the nonfatal injuries.
Mr. Zhang, whose agency is trying to combat the problem with intensified mine inspections nationwide, cited international data indicating that for every million tons of coal produced, China had 11 times as many reported fatalities as Russia, 15 times as many fatalities as India and 182 times as many as the United States.
In China, most dangerous of all are the small, private mines that in many regions surround giant, state-run mining companies, as they do in Datong.
Here, in the thousands of privately run mines, each burrowing into the thick seam of embalmed energy beneath these rolling prairies, men wearing head lamps climb down crude shafts where they use picks and crowbars to pry loose chunks of coal.
With shovels and by hand, they heap the coal onto metal carts that are jerked through long corridors to the open air. Finally, it is loaded onto trucks for eventual sale throughout China and abroad.
China, as its thickly polluted skies attest, makes intense use of its vast coal reserves, burning it to fuel most electric plants and factories and often even for home heating and cooking.
The large state mines, some of them virtual cities unto themselves, usually give workers better job security, health care and pensions, and their operations are more mechanized.
In theory at least, these mines are watched over by the state-run labor organization; while coal mining is dirty and dangerous anywhere, they tend to take better precautions against explosions, fires, cave-ins and other special hazards. But slumping prices in recent years have led to charges of scrimping on safety.
The smaller mines are usually run by private entrepreneurs, who sometimes have subcontracted facilities that were originally developed by a local government. These operations, too, are increasingly subjected to safety inspections.
But because the labor is so arduous and risky and these mines offer no long-term benefits, their front-line digging jobs are shunned by all but the most desperate workers: underemployed farmers from nearby counties or work-gangs contracted from distant regions.
One worker in a private mine, Wang Jing, said that more than half the men in his nearby village are willing to risk the drudgery and danger because they could not scratch a living out of the semi-arid hills of Shanxi province, just below the Mongolian desert.
The miners work six or seven days a week in eight-hour shifts, with no break for a meal. Each is paid according to how many carts he fills, and the most dogged workers can make $120 in a good month, miners said.
In addition to better inspections, the Chinese government has begun to close down tens of thousands of the smallest and most dangerous mines -- in part because of safety, but also because of surplus production capacity and evidence that reckless tunneling on the fringes may impair the long-term production of the state mines. But some of the closed-down mines, workers here said, have secretly reopened.
Resting on the large bed he shares with two fellow villagers, weary after his 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. turn underground, a migrant from Sichuan province reflected on his plight.
"Our mine is pretty safe," said the man, who gave his surname as Zhao. For the last four years he has worked in a private mine where 200 workers in two shifts produce about 500 tons of coal a day.
"The owner knows that the mine must be safe if it is to keep operating," he said. "Still, small accidents happen constantly. Doing such hard physical work at piece rates, it's unavoidable."
Mr. Zhao, 36, has a wife who farms and a 12-year-old boy in school back in Sichuan. Like most of his work crew, who are all from the same county, he returns home once a year during the Chinese New Year.
Of his monthly wages of about $110, he said, he saves $60 to send back home.
The mining work, he said, is "really tough." But back in his home village, each family has only a fraction of an acre of farmland, not enough to survive on. He hopes after several years to return with savings "to try something different, maybe animal husbandry, growing pigs or chickens."
Mr. Zhao said that when injuries occur, most of the private mines in the Datong area pay for medical care but that workers who suffer permanent disabilities have little choice but to move back home, with no compensation for crushed opportunities. And the medical care the owners pay for, he said with a laugh, is not always the best around.
"When you're injured you get the cheaper medicines rather than the better ones, and you have to get better sooner rather than later," Mr. Zhou said. "That's the way the market economy works."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mine workers emerging with carts of coal from a small mine near Datong, in Shanxi Province, where mines employ workers in dangerous conditions. Thousands of Chinese miners die in accidents each year. (Erik Eckholm/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Worker Safety at Issue in China"
The large number of deaths in China's coal industry is one example of the governments's faliure to secure safe conditions for its workers. The numbers were reported for 1996.
 
CHINA
Coal produced (million tons)...1,374
Accidental deaths...10,015
Deaths per million tons of coal produced...7.29
 
UNITED STATES
Coal produced...960
Accidental deaths...38
Deaths per million tons of coal produced...0.04
 
INDIA
Coal produced...290
Accidental deaths...137
Deaths per million tons of coal produced...0.47
 
RUSSIA
Coal produced...260
Accidental deaths...172
Deaths per million tons of coal produced...0.66
 
SOUTH AFRICA
Coal produced...210
Accidental deaths...48
Deaths per million tons of coal produced...0.23
 
POLAND
Coal produced...200
Accidental deaths...45
Deaths per million tons of coal produced...0.23
 
(Source: China State Coal Industry Bureau)
 
Map of China highlighting Datong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SHANXI, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SHANXI, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COAL MINING (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (73%); TRUCK SAFETY (71%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



481 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: New Pragmatism in South Africa's Foreign Policy Disappoints Some Old Supporters

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: HARARE, Zimbabwe, June 18

 BODY:
As waves of political violence and lawlessness wash across this country, the people here look south for hope. There, at the foot of the continent, sits South Africa, the beacon of democracy and the uncontested power of sub-Saharan Africa.
The former South African president, Nelson Mandela, cast his moral mantle over the continent. His successor, Thabo Mbeki, seemed to continue that policy, proclaiming the dawning of an "African renaissance" in which leaders would no longer tolerate despots or ignore the cries of the weak and oppressed. 
 Yet, as Zimbabwe lurches toward parliamentary elections next weekend and growing numbers of opposition party supporters have been beaten, killed and intimidated, South Africa remains remarkably silent.
It has not condemned President Robert Mugabe, 76, who is widely blamed for condoning or instigating the worst political clashes here in more than a decade. Instead, Mr. Mbeki praises Mr. Mugabe in public and prods him in private, treading carefully with a significant trading partner and ally and ignoring protests from human rights activists here and abroad.
One year after he inherited the reins of power from Nelson Mandela, Mr. Mbeki is increasingly embracing a pragmatic foreign policy seemingly driven as much by national interest as by humanitarian principle.
On the one hand, he has pledged soldiers to keep peace in Congo, sent helicopters to rescue Mozambicans from the floods and traveled to the West as a champion of debt relief, foreign investment and poverty reduction for his struggling continent.
But in December, Mr. Mbeki declined to meet one-on-one with the Dalai Lama, in part because some officials feared that a meeting might endanger South Africa's budding economic relations with China. And this month, the Mbeki government drew sharp criticism from Amnesty International, the human rights group, for considering arms sales to the Chinese despite that country's spotty human rights record.
As South Africa's post-apartheid democracy flexes its diplomatic muscles in a world that looks more and more toward Africa for solutions to African problems, analysts say they expect to see more behind-the-scenes negotiating and less tongue-lashing from the continent's biggest economic and military force.
"Mandela really used his presidency as a bully pulpit," said Chris Landsberg, a lecturer in international relations at the University of the Witswatersrand in Johannesburg. "Thabo will articulate the importance of those same norms, democracy, good governance, the rule of law. What he will not do is mention names.
"He won't go to Washington and single out Mugabe publicly. And in the future, I think we're going to see more instead of less of this quiet diplomacy."
It is a strategy pursued by many powerful nations as they strive to influence, rather than alienate, ideologically wayward but strategically important leaders and countries.
While opposition party leaders here have condemned Mr. Mbeki for negotiating quietly with Mr. Mugabe and American, British and other European officials to resolve the crisis, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott praised Mr. Mbeki's handling of the situation during a visit to South Africa last month.
Mr. Mbeki's strategy is not very popular among ordinary people here in Zimbabwe's capital. These days, Mr. Mugabe's support is waning in cities like this one, and his campaign rally on Saturday drew an appreciably smaller crowd than the one held by the opposition today.
But South African officials say they have little choice. Mr. Mugabe is widely viewed as a proud and mercurial leader who responds poorly to public criticism. They say they cannot afford to lose leverage with such an important neighbor.
Zimbabwe is South Africa's largest regional trading partner, although exports to Zimbabwe account for only about 3.5 percent of its total trade. And Mr. Mugabe, a staunch supporter of the South African anti-apartheid struggle, remains a key player in southern Africa. Alienating him, officials say, could threaten regional trade agreements and peace efforts in Congo.
So in April, Mr. Mbeki told Mr. Mugabe privately to tone down the heated rhetoric, end the violence, hold free and fair elections and obey the rule of law, South African officials say. In return, Mr. Mbeki promised to negotiate with the West to free funds for land redistribution and to argue Zimbabwe's case with officials from the International Monetary Fund, which is withholding financial support.
The strategy has had some success. Mr. Mugabe did agree to allow international observers to monitor the parliamentary elections, scheduled for Saturday and Sunday. Donors have agreed in principle to finance land reform. But the violence has only gotten worse, leaving the opposition here feeling betrayed.
Since March, at least 26 people have been killed and 150 injured, most of them black supporters of the new opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change. But during a visit to Zimbabwe last month, Mr. Mbeki did not mention the attacks. Instead, he praised Mr. Mugabe for his past support.
"I am pleased to take this opportunity publicly to salute President Mugabe, the rest of the leadership and the people of Zimbabwe for what they did to ensure our liberation from apartheid tyranny," Mr. Mbeki said in a speech at the opening of the Zimbabwe Trade Show in Bulawayo, while members of the opposition shook their heads in disbelief.
"South Africa provided moral leadership to the region under President Nelson Mandela," said Welshman Ncube, the secretary general of the Movement for Democratic Change. "We looked to South Africa in admiration and hope. It is a grave disservice to the people of Zimbabwe and the region that they align themselves with despots."
South African officials, acknowledging that Mr. Mugabe has not responded as Zimbabwe's opposition had hoped, contend that there would have been no progress at all if he had publicly rebuked Mr. Mugabe.
Mr. Mandela, on the other hand, has spoken out about Zimbabwe. But even Mr. Mandela, who is celebrated as one of the world's pre-eminent moral voices, had to juggle humanitarian principle and national interest.
In 1997, for instance, Mr. Mandela decided to close South Africa's embassy in Taiwan, a country considered supportive of the anti-apartheid struggle, a prelude to establishing full diplomatic ties with the China. Another longtime supporter with a poor human rights record, Fidel Castro, kept Mr. Mandela's friendship.
For similar reasons, Mr. Mbeki's government quietly allowed the former Ethiopian dictator, Mengistu Haile Mariam, to get medical treatment in South Africa last year while rights activists angrily clamored for his extradition. Mr. Mengistu, another supporter of the battle against apartheid, is wanted in Ethiopia on genocide charges. The South African government said it received no formal extradition request.
South Africa is still feeling its way in foreign policy as it reaches beyond its borders after decades of apartheid-era isolation.
"We may be wrong," said Mr. Mbeki, reflecting on his government's Zimbabwe strategy in an interview with foreign journalists last month. "I mean, somebody may say that perhaps we'd produce results by shouting, denouncing. I don't know.
"But this is our neighbor," he said. "We have to live with the Zimbabweans forever here. So let's end this violence. But let's look for a cooperative approach."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Thabo Mbeki defended his stance on Zimbabwe in May. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Zimbabwe highlighting Harare: South Africa's reticence has irked opposition politicians in Harare. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); ZIMBABWE (95%); AFRICA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); ZIMBABWE (95%); AFRICA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); CHINA (79%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARMS TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); HELICOPTERS (51%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (90%); DALAI LAMA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



482 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Talks Reported on an Exit Strategy for Milosevic

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: PRAGUE, June 18

 BODY:
The Clinton administration is exploring with some of its NATO allies and Russia the possibility that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia be allowed to leave office with guarantees for his safety and his savings, senior American and NATO officials say.
The discussions are delicate and informal, the officials stress, emphasizing that the administration is not preparing any offer to Mr. Milosevic -- who has been indicted by an international war crimes tribunal -- and will not make one. 
 On the other hand, "if we were presented with a hard and fast offer that would get Milosevic out of power, we'd have to think very hard before saying 'no,' " a senior administration official said.
Another senior official said that the United States would condemn any proposal that would allow Mr. Milosevic to go anywhere but to the war crimes tribunal in The Hague. "That's the policy," the official said. "But 'Would we act to stop it or quietly acquiesce?' is another question," the official said, then added carefully: "There has been no formal discussion of this -- that I am aware of."
Mr. Milosevic raised the question of his future last summer, after the war over Kosovo ended, officials say. But Washington rebuffed any discussion of a deal.
Various proposals have been raised to Washington and Athens in recent weeks by emissaries saying they come from Mr. Milosevic, the officials said. But what is less clear is whether they are fully authorized, and whether Mr. Milosevic is serious about doing a deal, or simply trying to "see how the ground lies," an American official said. "What we would never do is make him an offer, because he'll just pocket it."
Any deal, even without clear American fingerprints, would also put Vice President Al Gore into a difficult position during the presidential campaign and could undermine the international tribunal that indicted Mr. Milosevic.
It is also not clear why Mr. Milosevic would choose to leave power now, the officials caution. While his position is slowly disintegrating, along with Yugoslavia's economy, his current seat is probably the safest place for him. "It would be hard for him to trust assurances from anyone, inside or outside the country," an official said.
Within his ruling party, Mr. Milosevic has said that it is important to wait out the Clinton administration, and that a President George W. Bush would be more "realistic" toward Serbia and carry less personal animosity from the Kosovo war.
Still, President Clinton raised the issue of Mr. Milosevic's future with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, at their recent summit meeting, Russian officials have told some NATO-country officials. According to the Russians, Mr. Putin told Mr. Clinton that Miami seemed as good a place for Mr. Milosevic as Moscow, the officials said.
The Clinton administration has made the ouster of Mr. Milosevic one of its main policy goals and regards him as the central obstacle to democratization and stability in southeastern Europe. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright has told her top aides she wants Mr. Milosevic out of office before she goes, yet Mr. Milosevic has frustrated Washington, outflanking the opposition.
"There is keen interest in these proposals in Washington," said a NATO-country official. "They can't be seen to be shopping. But they are sending signals that should a clear proposal come, it would be seriously entertained. And that shows they're serious. If you write about it, it will be full denial. But it's the best solution for everyone, and they could spin it as victory, as his head on a platter. There is a strong argument that democracy should be put ahead of the person."
Greece is one of the countries actively exploring the possibility of a deal for Mr. Milosevic's ouster, which could mean exile abroad for him and his family or, less likely, pledges of safety inside Serbia from any successor government that promises not to extradite him.
Orthodox Greece provided humanitarian aid to Serbia and Kosovo even during the air war and has acted as a go-between for NATO and Belgrade in the past.
Last month, Mr. Milosevic saw the former Greek foreign minister, Karolos Papoulias, and some important Greek businessmen, including some with close ties to the United States. Mr. Milosevic is said to have asked to see former Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis, whom he trusts, but officials say that they are looking for more signals of seriousness from Belgrade before Mr. Mitsotakis would be authorized to go.
While Mr. Milosevic is beleaguered and unpopular, and the country is having severe economic problems, the Serbian opposition is weak and there are no signs of potential insurrection. The army and the police have not cracked. Russia and China, which opposed NATO's use of force in Kosovo and have interests in Serbia, have been willing to help Mr. Milosevic and his government with credits, loans and energy supplies.
On the other hand, the officials say, Mr. Milosevic is showing signs of nervousness. He is not seeing a broad range of people or traveling widely inside the country; there is evidence of a grain shortage that will drive up food prices; and there have been a series of assassinations of senior officials and criminal leaders, none of them solved, that indicate instability.
The opposition is becoming more of a widespread movement inside Serbia, with opinion polls showing a growing desire for change and an end to international isolation, even if the current leaders of the opposition are not popular themselves.
Furthermore, international sanctions against Yugoslavia are becoming better coordinated and seem to be biting those close to the government. Just last week, officials say, Cyprus, a favored spot for Serbian money and money laundering, finally agreed to shut down the office of Beogradska Banka on technical grounds.
Mr. Milosevic and his family are believed to have large amounts of money in foreign banks, although the size and location of the holdings are not known.
Mr. Milosevic seems tired and irritable, the officials say, and they note that his speeches have a kind of ideological fury more reminiscent of the views of his influential wife, Mirjana Markovic, a professor of sociology who founded the Yugoslav United Left Party.
Some in his own party are said to be looking beyond him, and the security of his family -- especially his son, Marko, who is involved in a wide range of business activities -- is a concern.
Marko Milosevic, although on a list of individuals banned from travel to European Union countries, was recently in Greece on a false diplomatic passport, one official said, and he is now believed to be in Japan, possibly on his way to China.
As for Mr. Milosevic's conviction that a Bush administration would be more realistic and less emotional toward him, a Bush foreign policy adviser cautioned that there was no agreed policy, and that the situation in Serbia could change a lot in six months.
"But Milosevic should take no comfort from the prospect of a Bush administration," the adviser said. "There will be no sense of letting bygones be bygones. The strategy may change in different ways, and it will be worked out with the Europeans. But the idea that a bunch of Kissingerian realpolitikers will focus energy elsewhere and let him mind his own business is not something he should bank on."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Slobodan Milosevic, whose future is said to be under informal discussion, with top military officials on Army Day in Belgrade last week. (Associated Press)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); WAR CRIMES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



483 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO;
Gore's 'Prosperity' Tour Is Off to a Rocky Start

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
Christina Zarek, a Pennsylvania Democratic campaign aide, was a little crestfallen. "Five graphs," she said as she mingled with reporters on Wednesday at a medical center in Scranton, where Vice President Al Gore was speaking. "It took up the first five graphs."
What brought out Ms. Zarek's gloom was the front-page report in The Tribune, the Scranton daily, about Mr. Gore's appearance at an airport rally here the night before. In a speech to 400 supporters, Mr. Gore had introduced a Democrat running in a critical special legislative election as John Wansacz. 
 The problem was, the candidate's name was Jim. And The Tribune devoted the first five paragraphs of its lead article to the goof.
That was one of several dispiriting media moments last week for the vice president, a week that his staff had been certain would be a winner for him. With Gov. George W. Bush on hiatus at the family compound in Kennebunkport, Me., Mr. Gore took the opportunity to unveil his "prosperity and progress tour," a multiweek drive to revive his flagging campaign by reminding voters of what some strategists say has the potential to be a Gore trump card: the Clinton administration's economic record.
But the message never seemed to sink in. An announcement of the tour at the New-York Historical Society in Manhattan proved to be short on the details Mr. Gore had promised about what he would do with the government's quickly growing surplus. The national news media was so unimpressed that ABC News did not even feature the event on its nightly newscast, and while some national dailies, including The New York Times, played it on the bottom half of Page 1 the next day, USA Today and The Los Angeles Times put it inside.
Mr. Gore's campaign spokesman, Chris Lehane, said the ho-hum play was not a major concern; there would be ample time, he explained, for readers and viewers to absorb the message of the prosperity tour. But on Thursday, as Mr. Gore was planning to discuss some of the policy details missing from the tour's kickoff, another day was lost when Tony Coelho stepped down as campaign manager. That move, which revived impressions of a campaign in frequent turmoil, dominated the news coverage, leaving some Gore advisers in a state of frustration.
"It's not a good thing," said one aide who demanded anonymity. "But how bad a thing will be determined by how disciplined we stay. If we're able to get through the next 48 hours, then we have a whole new series of events to try to make lemonade out of lemons."
The shake-up, in fact, was the dominant political news story on the Sunday morning talk shows. William M. Daley, the campaign's new chairman, appeared on at least five of them to try to refute the suggestion that Mr. Gore was in trouble. On the CBS News program "Face the Nation," Mr. Daley said the campaign dynamic would shift as the pressure built on Mr. Bush to elaborate on his proposals. "Then we will begin to see the contrast," he said.
The confluence of events last week sometimes seemed out of any handler's control. The Scranton visit, for example, had another unexpected complication when Mercy Hospital, affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church, at the last minute withdrew an invitation to the vice president to speak after Bishop James C. Timlin cited Mr. Gore's support for abortion rights. "No Mercy for Gore," The Tribune said.
The week also illustrated what is in the view of some Democrats and Republicans alike Mr. Gore's surprisingly tough struggle to get out a message that clicks with voters.
"I don't want to say 'smothered in the crib,' " Tom Hannon, the political director of CNN, said of the Coelho development's deflating effect just as the prosperity tour was getting started. "But the timing from their standpoint is not very felicitous. This is clearly going to step on their rolling out of the new Al Gore look."
Though it is early in the campaign, polls show Mr. Bush's numbers rising at Mr. Gore's expense, a reflection in part of the Bush campaign's seeming ability over the past several weeks to dominate the news coverage with policy declarations.
"How perceptions are changed begins with the way the day-to-day press covers the candidacy," said Greg Stevens, who was the media consultant to Senator John McCain, a presidential candidate known for enjoying the give-and-take with reporters. "The interesting thing to me is that Gore in person is a pretty engaging person. But that certainly does not come across at all in the exposure in the media."
Why Mr. Gore has not established a more winning presence in the news media is, of course, a subjective question. The topic has a chicken-or-egg component: is the press taking its cue from the polls in shaping its depiction of him, or are the people answering pollsters' queries based on conclusions drawn from newspapers and the nightly news?
To Mr. Lehane, a candidate's ups and downs are partly a function of the predictable ebb and flow of a campaign and the desire of the press corps to build up and tear down. "I think there's a natural cycle to all these campaigns," he said. He added that in the current instance, the "serious" nature of the issues on which Mr. Gore would be concentrating on the tour did not lend itself to sensational coverage.
But some political observers say the problem goes deeper, that Mr. Gore has never managed to shed his wooden image and that he tries too hard to ingratiate himself. During his remarks at the Allied Services medical center, where the campaign moved its event after Mercy rescinded its invitation, Mr. Gore told the gathering: "Tipper says hello. She enjoyed very much her trip to Scranton. She came back really glowing."
Even the words "prosperity and progress" earn talk-show snickers. "Very hip," David Letterman wisecracked on Wednesday night. " 'Progress and prosperity': his campaign slogan is from the '39 World's Fair."
Some commentators say Mr. Gore's tight handling of the news media has helped create negative impressions. Mr. Gore frequently gives one-on-one interviews with television anchors in local markets, and during his daylong visit to Scranton he was ushered into a stuffy equipment room at the medical center for a series of rapid-fire satellite interviews with anchors in places like Evansville, Ind., and Parkersburg, W.Va.
But reporters who travel with Mr. Gore regularly say they get to ask him questions in a news conference setting less than once a week. In such a tightly controlled environment, people in the news business say, it is not surprising that reporters grasp for any development that does not follow the script -- and that blunders, no matter how innocent, get magnified, as when a candidate gets a local politician's first name wrong.
Mark Halperin, the political director for ABC News, suggested that the fairly uninspiring initial response to the prosperity tour by the national press grew out of a general mistrust of the campaign's repeated efforts to reinvent Mr. Gore.
"The vice president, unfortunately for him, is not cut much slack," Mr. Halperin said. "I think the Bush campaign has gotten some traction in saying, 'This is just Al Gore Version 6.0.' How many more times can they let the guy say that this is the start of the campaign?"
Democrats say, however, that with an emphasis on prosperity, Mr. Gore may have finally found a word he can repeat to his heart's content, one that has enduring power beyond the media's ability to discredit it. "This is the message that Gore has to be on," declared Paul Begala, a former adviser to President Clinton and now a host of "Equal Time" on CNBC. "I will say that when he focused on Elian Gonzalez, I was very unhappy. Now he's got the right focus."
In fact, the vice president's boosters think the issue plays so well for him that even the most skeptical articles can work in his favor. As Joe Andrew, the national chairman of the Democratic National Committee, put it, "Every single one of those process stories will contain the words 'peace,' 'prosperity' and 'Al Gore.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: William M. Daley took over the Gore campaign last week, replacing Tony Coelho. He is disputing suggestions that Mr. Gore is in trouble.; Vice President Al Gore had been invited to speak at Mercy Hospital in Scranton, Pa., last week, but Bishop James C. Timlin ordered the invitation rescinded. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



484 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 3869 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Ally of an Older Generation Amid the Tumult of the 60's

SERIES: GOVERNOR BUSH'S JOURNEY: Confronting the Counterculture

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
The first time that George W. Bush was arrested, he had just stolen a Christmas wreath.
Mr. Bush, then a 20-year-old junior at Yale, was head of a notoriously rambunctious fraternity, and with the Christmas holidays approaching, he and some of his buddies had declared themselves the "decorating committee." They took off for a festive shopping street, where Mr. Bush spotted the wreath in a hotel -- and stole it. 
 It was not the perfect crime. Mr. Bush later recalled that he and his friends had perhaps had a few beers and were loud and boisterous. In addition, a police car was approaching.
The police arrested Mr. Bush and charged him with disorderly conduct. Eventually the charges were dropped, but the episode underscored Mr. Bush's path through the uproar of the late 1960's: at a time when many university students risked arrest for their vociferous political protests, Mr. Bush broke the law not out of principle but for a prank. Others denounced the police as "pigs," while Mr. Bush instinctively stood with the establishment, even as he casually breached its law.
Born at the earliest fringe of the baby boom, Mr. Bush was pressed during his years at Yale, 1964 to 1968, to take sides in the great battles then unfolding over politics, civil rights, drugs and music. Mostly he was a noncombatant in those upheavals, but when forced to choose, he ultimately retreated to the values and ideals established by his parents' generation, and to their accepted methods of rebelling.
In short, while some students took to the barricades, Mr. Bush took to the bar.
Unlike others of his generation, like Bill Clinton or Al Gore, Mr. Bush never wore his hair long, agonized over Vietnam, wrestled with existentialism or cranked up Rolling Stones songs to annoy his parents (instead of hard rock music, he listened to soul). Even today, Mr. Bush thunders in his stump speeches against boomer-style self-indulgence and appeals for a "responsibility era" that in some respects sounds like the 1950's; he likes values as clean-cut as his hair.
Many young people of privilege who encountered the 1960's began to question the system and their own values; Mr. Bush seems to have grasped his more tightly than ever. He may have broken the law, but he never questioned it. And today, much of his underlying political philosophy rests on the belief that the nation still needs to reverse the psychology of permissiveness and liberalism that began to take root in the country in the late 1960's.
Mr. Bush was a rabble-rouser of sorts, but only in the high-spirited way that fraternity boys a generation earlier had swallowed goldfish or sat on flagpoles. For all the buffeting that late-night television has given Mr. Bush over questions of drug use, he was in most respects a very conventional young man, and classmates say they do not recall him ever using marijuana or other illegal drugs.
One of the very few differences in mores between Mr. Bush and his parents came with changing patterns of courtship, for Mr. Bush busied himself with a string of girlfriends, while his father and mother both had married the only person they had ever kissed. Indeed, like many of his conservative peers, the only revolution for which the younger Bush ever demonstrated any enthusiasm was the sexual one.
As Mr. Bush was frolicking around Yale, a young man named Al Gore was studying at Harvard. But they were very different. Mr. Gore had barely arrived on campus when he began going around the dormitories, campaigning for a spot on the freshman council; later, he spent his time worrying about Vietnam. He was, in short, just the kind of serious and self-important student whom the less reputable Mr. Bush liked to mock.
"Can you imagine how much it hurt," Mr. Bush once joked to a crowd, "to know that Dad's idea of the perfect son was Al Gore?"
 
Excelling in Personal Relations
The Yale years can help address one of the fundamental questions often raised by critics of Mr. Bush: is he smart enough to be president?
The answer among those who knew him best is overwhelming and indignant -- absolutely. Many friends are angry that people even ask the question.
"This guy is very smart," said Lanny J. Davis, a former special counsel to President Clinton and a supporter of Al Gore, as well as a fraternity brother of Mr. Bush at Yale. "This notion of lightness is totally missing the point. There are many smart people, intellectually smart as well as street smart, who don't have the energy or motivation at times to act smart, but that doesn't mean they're not smart. There are times when George coasted through Yale courses or through exams or seemed overly facetious. But don't mistake that for not being intellectually acute.
"My memory of George -- and I've no reason to say nice things about him, because I hope he loses -- is that he was an astute observer of people and had an incredible talent for getting along with people," Mr. Davis said. "I tell my fellow Democrats not to underestimate him."
The notion that Mr. Bush is a low-wattage leader seems to be based on two factors.
First, Mr. Bush never was a strong student. His transcript at Yale, leaked to The New Yorker, shows that he was a solid C student. Although a history major, he sampled widely in the social sciences and did poorly in political science and economics while achieving some of his best grades (the equivalent of a B+) in philosophy and anthropology. (The anthropology class, however, was taught by Margaret Mead that year and was enormously popular because she offered among the easiest grades at Yale.)
Mr. Bush was not much of a student of politics, for he earned only a 73 in Introduction to the American Political System and a 71 in Introduction to International Relations. Few, if any, professors seem to have left a mark on him, or he on them.
Several professors who taught him said he had simply been one student in a huge class. As the historian John Morton Blum put it, "I haven't the foggiest recollection of him." Erich Segal, who later met Mr. Gore at Harvard and based the main character in "Love Story" partly on him, taught a classical comedy course that Mr. Bush took, but Mr. Segal said he had no memory of him.
The transcript indicates that in Mr. Bush's freshman year, the only year for which rankings were available, he was in the 21st percentile of his class, meaning that four-fifths of the students had better grades than he did.
Second, Mr. Bush is determinedly nonintellectual. He never seems to want to play with ideas and hold them up to the light; he drops names like Nolan Ryan, not Kierkegaard.
"I would agree that he's not contemplative or reflective," said Michael M. Wood, a friend at both Yale and, earlier, Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. "He's not a guy who would go off by himself thinking of something. He's more likely to be hiding in a tree to jump down on somebody."
In a long interview about his past, Mr. Bush quickly became edgy when he was asked about the internal motivations and pressures that have driven him over the years.
"Now that we've gotten into the kind of psychoanalyst world of trying to figure me out, I think it's -- I say that sarcastically because, you know, this is not the way I am," he said. "I mean, I'm a doer. I'm a problem-solver. I get things done."
Yet if his mind was not well suited to earning A's at Yale by categorizing information and coming up with the four major and three minor reasons why Rome fell, then it may be that his brain works best in other ways. Mr. Wood and many other acquaintances say Mr. Bush brims with a practical intelligence.
At the same time that he was earning C's at Yale, Mr. Bush demonstrated a feat that old friends still shake their heads about. It was his induction into the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity, or DKE, and the sophomores were cowering downstairs in the fraternity's lovely red-brick building (now the alumni center) as older students hit them and shouted insults as part of the hazing process.
"You're garbage!" the pledges remember being told. "You're pieces of" excrement "and you don't deserve to belong to this great fraternity."
Terry Johnson, a roommate of Mr. Bush who entered DKE at the same time, recalled: "One of the techniques of demonstrating what an abominable person you are is to ask you to name all your fellow pledges. It's a way of humiliating somebody in front of their fellow pledges, to show that you're not worthy of entering DKE."
Several were called on and were able to name only 5 or 6 of the 55 pledges in the room. Then it was George Bush's turn. Those who were there say he named every single person.
Mr. Bush rose to be president of DKE, beating out, among others, his friend Roland W. Betts, later an eminently successful businessman. The DKE presidency was a significant achievement, and those who came before and after him as president did very well in the business world, largely because of the same people skills that propelled them to the top of DKE.
When Mr. Bush entered DKE, for example, the president of the fraternity was Frederick W. Smith, who founded Federal Express and remains its chairman and chief executive officer. The next president was Dayton Ogden, now chairman of Spencer Stuart, the executive search firm. Then came Mr. Bush, and after him was Michael M. Wood, now chief executive of Hanley-Wood, a publishing company in Washington.
Those who remember Mr. Bush at DKE say he was similar to those other presidents, and that in the business world his people skills would have carried him far as well.
 
Tension With an Eastern Elite
For a leading presidential candidate, Mr. Bush has an unusually testy relationship with the Eastern establishment, although he also has an intimate history with it. His grandparents on both sides were card-carrying members of that establishment, yet ever since he showed up at Yale as a freshman in 1964, Mr. Bush has resolutely cultivated an anti-intellectualism and chafed at what he describes as the arrogance of liberal intellectual elitists.
"Look, when you're coming from Texas to some of these schools up there," Mr. Bush said in an interview, "there's a -- you know, I can't point to a particular person, but there's that sense of, you know: 'Well, maybe these boys from Texas aren't quite bright enough to be here. I guess it's geographic distribution that got him here.' "
Mr. Bush made clear that what irritated him about Yale above all was its reluctance, many years later, to give his father an honorary degree. After dithering while the elder Mr. Bush was vice president and then president, Yale finally awarded the degree to President Bush in 1991.
"It wasn't politically correct," the younger Mr. Bush said. "What kind of institution is that of higher learning? So I didn't react well to that."
Indeed, Mr. Bush initially did not want to send a contribution to Yale on the occasion of his 25th reunion in 1993 (friends persuaded him to), and he did not submit an entry for his reunion class book.
Mr. Bush's tension with what he sees as an arrogant Eastern elite, and his perception of himself as outside it, seem to have arisen initially from the clash of generations that occurred while he was at Yale. Mr. Bush entirely subscribed to his parents' and grandparents' view of absolute and immutable values, of privilege balanced by duty. He was proud when his grandfather, crusty old Senator Prescott Bush of Connecticut, denounced his party for considering Nelson Rockefeller for the presidential nomination in 1964, after Mr. Rockefeller had divorced his wife and remarried.
Then, at Yale, this solid, straightforward world turned upside down. A moral universe of stark blacks and whites became colorized, ambiguous and, for young George, disorienting.
Classmates began to feel guilty about their privilege, angry at their parents, distrustful of business and defiant at the system itself. For somebody like George W., entirely comfortable in his own skin, all this guilt and upheaval were incomprehensible.
"I think what happened is still informing his public policy today," said Bill Minutaglio, one of Mr. Bush's biographers. "He was blindsided by a lack of certitude that spun him and by an ambiguity that is still spinning him today."
"At Yale, watching all this unfold, I think it really hit him like a ton of bricks," Mr. Minutaglio added. "He felt that Yale and a lot of the counterculture were rejecting all the things that his family had stood for."
Kingman Brewster Jr., the legendary president of Yale, moved to transform the university by admitting women beginning in 1968 and by restructuring admissions so that young men like George W. Bush, alumni children who were mediocre students, were far less likely to be accepted. Indeed, with his grades and college boards, Mr. Bush might not have been admitted if he had applied just a few years later.
Just two months after Mr. Bush arrived at Yale, his father lost a closely watched Senate race in Texas to the incumbent, Ralph Yarborough. George W. had flown back to Texas for election night and watched as his father choked back his sorrow before a crowd in his concession speech.
Soon afterward, George introduced himself to William Sloane Coffin Jr., the liberal chaplain at Yale, who had been a friend of his father. Mr. Coffin has said he does not recall the conversation, but as George W. remembers it, the chaplain said, "Yeah, I know your father, and your father lost to a better man."
Young George watched wistfully from afar as his father, in the different political universe of Texas, basked in public respect and bounced back in 1966 to win a Congressional seat and be named president of the freshman class in the House. But as the elder Bush became more prominent as a Republican Congressman who supported the Vietnam War and opposed some civil rights legislation, he also became a target of criticism at Yale, deeply offending young George.
"One time he came back to the room, and it was the only time I ever saw him perturbed," recalled Robert J. Dieter, a roommate at Yale. "Somebody had attacked his dad over the Vietnam War. George had a hard time with what is now known as the politics of personal destruction, where you don't debate the merits of an issue but instead you attack the person. Apparently people had disparaged his father as a person, and that upset George a lot."
 
Oblivious to Politics of the Day
Mr. Bush's loyalty to his father in the Yale years was filial rather than political. For a son of a politician, Mr. Bush was remarkably oblivious to current affairs.
Other undergraduates at the time -- like (future governor) George E. Pataki, (future senator) John Kerry, and (future federal judge) J. Harvie Wilkinson III -- were active in campus politics, while at the law school (future senator) Joseph I. Lieberman was beginning his own political career. But Mr. Bush was the opposite kind of student: he never joined the Yale Political Union and rarely spent time talking about civil rights, the Vietnam War or other upheavals of the day.
"Gosh, I can't remember," Mr. Bush said, struggling to recall whether he had discussed these issues with his father. "I mean, I'm confident we discussed issues. I just can't remember any long sessions sitting around."
"There wasn't a lot of protest at Yale in '68," he added. "I don't remember that. And I think most people -- I don't know if you found anything differently -- I just don't remember any great days of rage. I think those were mainly in the 70's."
It is true that Yale did not explode until after the class of 1968 had graduated. But it is very odd to describe Yale in 1967-68 as "a fairly placid period," as Mr. Bush does.
Race riots erupted in New Haven between Mr. Bush's junior and senior years, antiwar "teach-ins" and protests multiplied, students burned draft cards and Mr. Coffin, the chaplain, was indicted for helping draft resisters. A group of nine students (including Strobe Talbott, now deputy secretary of state) circulated a statement among seniors saying that they would refuse to be drafted; Mr. Bush refused to sign it. The Yale Daily News captured the surly mood with an editorial headlined, "Yale's Future, If Any."
 
Friendships as a Priority
The upheaval may have left George W. Bush feeling uncomfortable, but he was not melancholy -- far from it. Friends remember him as cheerful, vigorously involved in intramural sports at Davenport, his residential college, and laughing with friends over beers.
Roommates recall Mr. Bush studying the class register and memorizing names of classmates, and he clearly made friendships a great priority.
"George probably knew 1,000 of the 4,000 undergraduates at Yale," said Mr. Betts, a friend. "There probably was no one else who knew 200."
"He was the best-known guy at Yale," Mr. Betts added.
Some other classmates regard that as a huge exaggeration, but even those who frowned on Mr. Bush, seeing him as an airhead party boy, tended to think of him as affable and unusually helpful to his friends.
One of Mr. Bush's roommates, Frederick C. Livingston, who had academic problems that led him to drop out for a year, said, "Of all my roommates, he was the one most obviously concerned and open about seeing if he could help."
The DKE fraternity was a hub of Mr. Bush's life at Yale and offered a refuge from the upheavals of the day, and from the left.
"You'd find people in DKE who were less likely to be subscribers of the left, more respectful of the institutions, not necessarily as disenchanted by the social fabric," said Paul B. Jones, a fraternity brother.
Many athletes were in DKE, and it was famous for its parties, rowdiness and hazing. Former members say that the new pledges were paddled, battered and then shown a large iron brand glowing red hot in the fireplace. They were told to turn around to be branded, and then a much smaller brand (made of a wire hanger) was substituted to burn a triangle in the small of their backs, as the large brand was dipped into water to make a heart-stopping sizzle.
Leftist disapproval of the fraternities was growing, and The Yale Daily News published an expose about hazing by DKE. In the ensuing uproar, Mr. Bush appeared in the newspaper for perhaps the only time, defending the branding as "insignificant."
"I can't understand how the authors of the Friday article can assume that Yale has to be so haughty not to allow this type of pledging to go on at Yale," the newspaper quoted Mr. Bush as saying.
 
Tapped for a Secret Society
On April 28 of his junior year, as the bells on Harkness Tower sounded 8 p.m., a man strode over to Mr. Bush as he stood in the front courtyard of Davenport College. "Skull and Bones!" the man said, clapping his hands on Mr. Bush's shoulders. "Accept or reject."
"I accept," Mr. Bush replied, and he was admitted to Skull and Bones, a secret society then made up of 15 of the most promising, talented or socially prominent men in each class. There have been reports that he was "tapped" by his father, who himself was a Bonesman, but that seems incorrect. An outgoing senior and Bonesman, David Alan Richards, acknowledges that it was he who tapped Mr. Bush that night.
For a man like George W., who complains about elitism, Skull and Bones was an odd group to enter. It was the epitome of exclusivity, carefully choosing its members each year to undergo an elaborate initiation procedure in a windowless "tomb" that only members are allowed to enter, and the club was then being denounced as elitist by students and even by Dean Georges May. At least one classmate, Jacques R. Leslie Jr., turned it down that year, just as President Brewster had when he was an undergraduate.
There has been speculation that Mr. Bush was admitted into Skull and Bones because of pressure from his father and grandfather. But the decision was made by the 15 departing members, albeit with some lobbying from past members, and what may have helped Mr. Bush more was that he was friends with one member of the outgoing group from DKE and knew three more from Davenport College.
"George W. Bush was tapped because the members thought that he was a natural leader and a good guy to be with," Mr. Richards recalled. "Legacy was helpful but it didn't determine the result."
If entry into Skull and Bones opened Mr. Bush to accusations of snobbery, it also meant association with a community of gifted people with whom Mr. Bush would form lifelong friendships -- and Mr. Bush's strategy at Yale was clearly to build great friendships, more than a great transcript. It was also a perfectly reasonable strategy, for one could argue that Yale graduates in the 1960's got further on the networks they made than on the grades they earned.
That was certainly true of Mr. Bush. He was not quite John Belushi in "Animal House," but like many of his DKE fraternity brothers, he did manage what could politely be called a full life. For starters, DKE was notorious for its rowdy weekend parties, attended by Yale men and by women from nearby women's colleges, in which alcohol was so plentiful that partygoers periodically threw up or passed out.
When Mr. Livingston, his roommate, was married, Mr. Bush was an usher, and he led an effort to throw the groom and the fathers of the bride and groom into the swimming pool. Many years later, when Mr. Livingston's father was in a reception line and met Vice President Bush, he recalled the incident, saying, "Your son once threw me into a swimming pool."
The vice president nodded sagely and replied, "That sounds like George."
The theft of the Christmas wreath appears to have been Mr. Bush's first tangle with the police, but it was not the last. A year after that arrest, he was attending a football game at Princeton and cheering for his DKE brothers on the Yale team. At the end of the game, he and other students charged onto the football field and tried to knock down the goal posts, seizing pieces as souvenirs.
The Princeton police tried to re-establish order and caught Mr. Bush brazenly sitting on a crossbar of a goal post, determinedly trying to pry off a piece for himself. The police seized him, interrogated him and finally released him on the condition that he leave Princeton by dusk.
He has never been back.
Once while on a train to New York City from New Haven, he told a buddy, James Lockhart, that he had done a lot of partying in his freshman year but that he now wanted to buckle down. As Mr. Lockhart remembers the conversation, Mr. Bush said, very seriously: "I want to do more. I want to make a mark here."
Yet when Mr. Bush received his Yale diploma in 1968, he had third-rate grades, second-rate accomplishments and no firm career prospects. There was, however, one area where he had excelled: he had a huge number of very close friends, and long after course grades were forgotten, those friends would still stand by him, reach into their pockets for him and help propel him into politics.
 
This is the fourth in a series of articles about the lives of the presidential candidates. The next installment will look at Al Gore's years at Harvard.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: George W. Bush as a student at Yale University in the 1960's. (George Bush Presidential Library)(pg. A1); George W. Bush graduated from Yale University in 1968 as a solid C student and with no firm career prospects. But he had excelled in building friendships and had belonged to a secret society of the most promising, talented or socially prominent men in each class. (From Mr. and Mrs. Johnson); At Yale University in the 1960's, George W. Bush largely avoided battles over politics, civil rights, drugs and music. (George Bush Presidential Library)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARRESTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (68%); POP & ROCK (65%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (96%); BILL CLINTON (58%); AL GORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



485 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Despite U.S. Restrictions Against Cuba, Door Opens Wider for Visits by Americans

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
By relaxing rules and applying only a spotty enforcement of travel restrictions, the Clinton administration is opening Cuba to American travelers at a rate not seen in more than 40 years.
While administration officials deny that the increased travel is intended to undermine the 38-year-old embargo against Cuba, the new flow has given rise to a flurry of business, personal and political contacts, and there is a renewed push in some circles -- both Democratic and Republican -- to relax the commercial boycott, one of the last relics of the increasingly distant cold war. 
 The number of Americans traveling legally to Cuba has surged by 10 percent a year in the last five years, Treasury Department officials said. And the number traveling to Cuba on the sly more than doubled in the same period, they said.
According to Cuban government figures, about 135,000 Americans visited Cuba last year on individual or group trips sanctioned under the administration's increasingly relaxed rules. And some 22,000 Americans went last year illegally through third countries, according to the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council.
The increase in Americans going to Cuba reflects an administration strategy to encourage contacts between civilians in both lands, partly as a way to help Cuba prepare for a smooth transition after President Fidel Castro, who has ruled since 1959, is no longer in power.
The administration has helped make those growing numbers possible by allowing direct flights to Havana from New York and Los Angeles this year, and adding more flights from Miami, which now reach four cities in Cuba. The number of people traveling directly to Cuba grew by almost 50 percent last year.
In addition, the Commerce Department increasingly approves licenses for private planes, like those that carried executives in January to the first trade show of American medical products in Havana.
 Speaking on CNN's "Both Sides with Jesse Jackson" on Sunday, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said, "I think we have to keep pursuing, through ways that we can, the people to people contacts and trying to expand the space for the people" of Cuba.
Charles S. Shapiro, the director of the State Department's Office of Cuban Affairs, said that by making more contact with Americans, Cubans "understand they can make decisions in their own lives."
Asked whether the new strategy is a way to relax the embargo while avoiding the political firestorm that would accompany a formal attempt to do so, Mr. Shapiro said, "Absolutely not." Congress is needed for any substantial policy switch, he said. "What the president can do is make some changes in the margins."
In 1996, Congress codified the Cuban embargo into law. That stripped the president of the ability to lift sanctions by executive order, as he has done, for example, with Vietnam. But the president retains a right to define who can travel, and the administration is considering additional measures to ease travel further, including lifting the once-a-year restriction on visits by Cuban-Americans, officials said.
Representative Mark Sanford, a South Carolina Republican, returned from a recent trip to Cuba and introduced a bill to let Americans travel freely to the island, arguing that the trade ban is failing and the limits on travelers are unconstitutional. "I thought we were supposedly shutting the place down," he said, "and you see all this new hotel construction."
In recent weeks, some members of the Congressional Black Caucus who went to Havana returned denouncing the embargo. The American Farm Bureau threw its weight behind a Republican proposal to allow the sale of food and medicine to Cuba after two Democrats from Arkansas returned eager to sell rice. A top official of the United States Chamber of Commerce emerged from a meeting with Cuban officials saying that Cuba is willing to negotiate compensation for properties it confiscated from American companies more than four decades ago.
The "people to people" contacts were authorized with bipartisan support in the 1992 Cuban Democracy Act but were not broadly put into effect until last year. Access to Cuba, the top Caribbean tourist destination a half century ago, has been limited for decades to American journalists, government officials and Cuban exiles visiting relatives. Now the flow includes the likes of the Yale Glee Club, the Baltimore Orioles and 130 students from Buxton High School in Williamstown, Mass.
"You can put me next to a person on the street and I'll tell you how they can go to Cuba," said Pamela Falk, a professor of international law at the City University of New York law school. "Most Americans can fit into one of the legitimate categories."
Vicki Huddleston, the top American diplomat in Cuba, said in Los Angeles this month that the goal is to channel information and ideas. "No island can remain an island with open communication," she said.
But some supporters of the trade ban are skeptical.
"I don't see the benefits of the people to people policy," said Representative Robert Menendez, a Cuban-American Democrat from New Jersey. "There have been hundreds of thousands of visitors and millions of dollars spent, and Castro has become more oppressive."
In May 1999, the administration for the first time gave about 150 universities, as well as high schools, religious groups and other organizations, the authority to license their members for travel to Cuba.
Groups that formerly clashed with Treasury Department officials over the travel restrictions say their fortunes have changed. When the San Francisco-based group Global Exchange staged a protest trip by 200 Americans in 1994, Treasury Department authorities confiscated passports and froze the group's bank account. Today, Global Exchange is licensed to take Americans on tours to attend film festivals, conduct language courses, even take an ecological bike trip, said Pam Montanaro, a trip coordinator.
At the same time, Americans who do not bother to get government approval face little risk of prosecution, administration officials said.
Unauthorized travelers include everyone from Cuban-Americans -- who run afoul of the rules by traveling more than the approved one family visit a year -- to beachcombers, fishermen, political activists, sex tourists and others. Though about 22,000 Americans traveled illegally to Cuba last year, Treasury Department authorities levied only about 200 civil penalties, officials said. And they did not refer a single case to the Justice Department for criminal prosecution.
More than 100 cases of suspected travel violations have languished for months because defense lawyers have demanded hearings for their clients and the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control has no judges to conduct them.
The travel restrictions in reality are curbs on spending money in Cuba. Authorized American travelers are allowed to spend up to $183 a day. Unapproved visitors who spend cash could face up to 10 years in prison, $1 million in corporate fines, $250,000 in individual fines or civil penalties up to $55,000 per violation.
Federal authorities admit that their contradictory mandate -- to make authorized travel easier while impeding tourism -- makes the restrictions on Cuban travel some of the most difficult to enforce. Yet they insist the law remains an effective deterrent for most Americans.
Enforcement is complicated because many of the unauthorized travelers fly to Cuba through third countries, like the Bahamas, Canada or Mexico. Eager for the foreigners' cash, Cuba obliges Americans by failing to stamp their passports.
That leaves United States authorities to rely largely on the honor system to determine which travelers have broken the law.
Some analysts say the increased legal travel is already building bridges between Americans and Cubans. The American tide is "keeping the Cuban government off balance," especially as it seeks to attract investment but maintain control, said John Kavulich, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council in New York, a nonprofit center financed by businesses that seek to understand opportunities in Cuba.
But those seeking to maintain the economic pressure on Cuba are dismayed by growing signs that American tourism is becoming mainstream. Urban bookstores offer a dozen guidebooks to Cuba; rental villas in Cuba are offered on the Internet by an agency based in Austin, Texas; the Web site of Abercrombie & Fitch, the youth-oriented clothing company, offers tips on how to "go play" in Cuba, while noting that "it's technically illegal."
Mr. Menendez, the New Jersey lawmaker, said American visitors are spending time on the beach and in nightclubs -- not engaging the island's dissidents or independent journalists. He accused the administration of "casting an economic lifeline to the regime" in Havana to ease economic pressures there and avert a social explosion, which in turn, could produce a refugee exodus.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The administration is considering lifting limits on family visits by Cuban-Americans. A Cuban woman and her daughter, who lives in New Jersey, were reunited in Havana on Friday. They asked not to be identified. (Jorge Rey/Liaison, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BOYCOTTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%); JESSE JACKSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



486 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Labor Seeks Minimum State Wage of $6.75

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
A push by labor unions to lift New York State's minimum wage to $6.75 an hour, from $5.15, has turned into one of the last major battles in this year's legislative session in Albany as small businesses lobby fiercely to block an increase.
Business lobbyists are pressing the Republican-controlled State Senate to vote against the increase before the end of the session, scheduled for Thursday. The Assembly, which is dominated by Democrats, overwhelmingly approved the $6.75 wage two weeks ago by a vote of 120 to 24. 
 Union officials assert that the minimum wage needs to be lifted well above the $5.15-an-hour authorized by the federal government because living expenses are so high in New York. But corporate leaders assert that raising the minimum wage would hurt small businesses, especially upstate, where pay levels are generally lower than in New York City and its suburbs.
"It's the kind of issue that excites fierce support and opposition from such diametrically opposed groups that there would never be a legislative resolution until the very last minute," said Edwin Donnelly, the chief lobbyist for the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O.
The wage issue is heavy with political consequences this year, since all 211 seats in the Legislature are up for grabs in November. Many Republicans fear that if they oppose a higher minimum wage, the Democrats and labor unions will flog them over the issue in the fall campaign.
Some Republican lawmakers consider an increase to $6.75 in January to be preposterously steep and say the Assembly Democrats proposed so large a jump not with the expectation that it would become law, but in the hope that it would become a winning campaign issue. Many Senate Republicans are also unhappy with a provision in the Assembly bill that would raise the minimum wage each year at the same rate that the statewide average wage rises.
"The immediate raise to $6.75 and the escalator are poison pills to make sure this doesn't pass," said Assemblyman John J. Faso, the Republican minority leader. "I think this is a political gesture."
Historically, New York has not raised its minimum wage above the federal level, but some Assembly Democrats said it was time to do so because the $10,000 a year paid to full-time workers making the minimum wage was too low to support a family. They also noted that Connecticut and Massachusetts had raised their minimum wage above federal levels. Connecticut's is $6.15 an hour and will rise to $6.70 on Jan. 1, 2002. The Massachusetts minimum of $5.25 will go to $6 in January, and $6.75 a year later.
"In the 1960's you could support a family on the minimum wage, but you can't do that in any guise, way or form now," said Catherine Nolan of Queens, chairwoman of the Assembly Labor Committee and the bill's sponsor.
"We're not asking for $12 an hour, we're asking for $6.75, which is achievable. The more money you put into people's pockets, the more money they spend. So this would help the economy by generating more goods and services."
Ms. Nolan said the business groups were shocked that the higher minimum wage sailed through the Assembly, and have responded with a huge lobbying campaign in the past two weeks.
Mark Alesse, state director of the National Federation of Independent Business, an association of small businesses, said he was confident that a higher minimum wage would not be approved this year, but Mr. Donnelly of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. expressed confidence that labor would prevail on the issue.
Mr. Alesse called a raise to $6.75 "a hideously bad idea."
"The small-business community is completely unanimous against this," he said. "It will hurt the business climate and in particular the small-business community."
Contending that most minimum-wage workers in New York were teenagers, he said raising the minimum wage would do little to lift families out of poverty. Instead, raising the minimum wage would cause many small businesses to lay off low-wage workers, he said, because it could squeeze their profit margins.
One of business's biggest fears is that if the minimum wage does go to $6.75, it would put pressure on employers to give raises to workers earning $6.75 to $9 an hour. Many union leaders also say that is how a higher minimum wage could help lift many low-wage families out of poverty.
Several lawmakers said Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, was caught between business lobbyists who want him to stop any minimum-wage increase and Republican pragmatists who are urging him to negotiate with Assembly leaders for a smaller increase.
Mr. Bruno was consulting with labor, business, the Assembly and Gov. George E. Pataki, said Mr. Bruno's spokesman, John McArdle.
"We're trying to do something in such a way that's not going to put smaller business at a disadvantage, while also recognizing labor markets out there," Mr. McArdle said.
Mr. Pataki has said he is open to increasing the minimum wage, although he fears that it could hurt the tourism industry in the Catskills and the Adirondacks, where many workers at hotels, restaurants and ski resorts are paid the minimum.
As for the increase to $6.75 approved by the Assembly, Charles Deister, a spokesman for the governor, said, "It's certainly something he'll take a look at." He added that the governor thought the minimum wage was an issue that should be handled at the federal level, not the state level.
The Working Families Party, a new political party set up with the support of several labor unions, is one of the main forces behind the push for a higher minimum wage. Some Senate Republicans, worried that their seats are vulnerable, are hoping to gain the endorsement of the Working Families Party, which would give them an extra ballot line. But the party has said it will look to whether a candidate has backed the higher minimum wage.
Some lobbyists said that if the Senate took no action on the minimum-wage bill, it might seek to placate organized labor by approving another labor-backed bill, one that would require a day off each week for farm workers and would extend overtime coverage to them. Under current law, farm workers can be required to work 365 days in a row and do not qualify for time-and-a-half pay when they work more than 40 hours a week. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MINIMUM WAGE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH L BRUNO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



487 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
GORE TO ANNOUNCE $200 BILLION PLAN TO AID RETIREMENT

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore plans in a speech on Tuesday to propose a $200 billion program to help low- and middle-income taxpayers build retirement accounts separate from what they will receive from Social Security, his aides said.
As described by Gore aides, the program would work like 401(k) savings plans, but instead of employer contributions, the federal government would make contributions in the form of tax credits, providing in some cases up to a 3-to-1 match. 
 Called "retirement savings plus," the plans would offer tax relief for couples with combined annual incomes of up to $100,000, or individuals making up to $50,000. Mr. Gore's program would provide the greatest benefit for couples with incomes of less than $30,000 and would not be available to couples making more than $100,000. His aides estimated that the program would cost the government $200 billion over 10 years.
The voluntary program, devised to compete with Gov. George W. Bush's proposal for individuals to invest an unspecified portion of their Social Security payroll tax in the stock market, would create a fund for each participant that could expand by a maximum of $2,000 a year.
A married couple making up to $30,000 could contribute up to $500 a year. They would then receive a tax credit of $1,500, bringing their account to $2,000. A couple making $100,000 could contribute $1,500 to their account and earn a tax credit of $500.
Like individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans, contributions to the accounts would be tax deductible, accounts would grow tax free and withdrawals would be taxed. Private financial institutions would manage the accounts. Gore aides say an individual who took part in the program for more than 35 years would yield about $200,000 for retirement over and above Social Security.
Mr. Gore's plan does two things that Mr. Gore had criticized in the plan offered by Governor Bush, his Republican rival. One, it allows people to invest taxpayer money in the stock market through the account managers. Two, it greatly increases the amount of the surplus that Mr. Gore would devote to tax cuts.
Mr. Gore has been critical of Mr. Bush for devoting $1.3 trillion dollars of the surplus to an across-the-board income tax cut over 10 years. But now, with this new savings plan, Mr. Gore's total of targeted tax cuts comes in at $500 billion over 10 years, twice what he had proposed before and half of Mr. Bush's proposal.
Gore advisers, in interviews today, said that the Gore plan is a hedge against what they see as the risky alternative that Mr. Bush is proposing. They said financial institutions would be limited to offering investment options based on broad-based mutual funds for equities, bonds and government securities.
Mr. Gore intends to lay out the plan in a speech on Tuesday in Lexington, Ky. The speech begins the second week of his three-week "progress and prosperity tour" (sometimes called the "prosperity and progress tour" by Mr. Gore) in which he is traveling to crucial battleground states to try to get credit for the booming economy. In New York last Tuesday, Mr. Gore called for a new program to supplement Social Security, but he offered only a broad outline. Details were released today in an effort to build momentum for the speech on Tuesday.
The retirement plan is a vivid example of how Mr. Gore is trying to take advantage of the growing federal budget surplus by spending it on groups of voters whom he needs in November -- in this case, low-income and middle-income working families, the core Democratic base that polls have indicated are slipping from Mr. Gore's grasp.
Republicans said Mr. Gore's proposal revealed a weakening of his stance against putting taxpayer money in the financial markets and would thus contribute to an overall impression of Mr. Gore as someone without reliable core values.
"This week the vice president will flip flop flip by coming out for the use of tax money to be invested in the market to help people retire," said Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's campaign spokesman. "It's his third position in six months on the soundness of using tax money to invest in markets to secure people's retirement."
Mr. Fleischer pointed to the Clinton administration's now abandoned position laid out in this year's budget proposal to allow government-controlled investments in the markets, and then to a Gore speech in May when he criticized Mr. Bush's plan to allow people to invest a portion of their payroll taxes in the market.
"He's doing this to blunt Governor Bush's approach to allow people to invest in the markets to help them retire with more money," Mr. Fleischer said.
Mr. Fleischer was not the only one suggesting today that Mr. Gore was perhaps going through multiple reinventions.
These transformations were among the main subjects of the morning's talk programs, as Mr. Gore's new campaign chairman, William M. Daley, the commerce secretary, made the rounds. He was asked repeatedly about the vice president's continually evolving personas.
Tim Russert posed the question on the NBC program "Meet The Press": "Fairly or unfairly, there's a perception that Al Gore has changed positions on abortion, on gun control, Elian Gonzalez, wearing earth tones, wearing sports shirts, wearing coats and ties, changing campaign chairmen, moving from Washington to Nashville, suddenly in favor of a $500 billion tax cut -- that Gore has no center, that he flips and panders as a politician. Is that a problem?"
Mr. Daley replied: "There's a problem because those are all misconceptions that have been developed by either the opposition or by media who aren't really following this day to day."
He added, "The fact of the matter is, Al Gore has been consistent about working for the average man and woman out there and trying to address their problems."
Although organized labor helped Mr. Gore secure the nomination, its enthusiasm for the vice president has been dampened lately by his support for a bill to make normal trade relations permanent with China and his selection of Mr. Daley as his chairman to replace the ailing Tony Coelho. Mr. Daley led the administration's fight on Capitol Hill to pass the trade bill, which labor had vehemently opposed.
Mr. Daley said today that he had talked with several labor leaders over the last few days, including John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., who met with Mr. Gore on Friday to complain about the Daley appointment. Mr. Daley suggested his talks with labor leaders had been fruitful and said he expected to meet with Mr. Sweeney on Tuesday.
Other Gore aides spent the day briefing reporters on the retirement plan.
They said that while the chief goal of the plan would be to provide a cushion for retirement nest eggs, participants could withdraw their savings at any time without penalty for three specific purposes: to cover catastrophic health expenses, to help buy a first home or to pay for a child's college education. For most 401(k) programs recipients have to pay a penalty if they withdraw money before retirement for any reason.
In addition, the plan would encourage the rate of personal savings, which has plunged by more than a half over the last decade. And they said that at a rate of return of 5.3 percent, an account for an individual could grow to $202,000 over 35 years.
They also suggested that the program would be simplified by having the Internal Revenue Service create a mechanism to deposit people's tax credits and a share of their tax refunds directly into the accounts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); BONDS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



488 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Racial Bridges, Open and Closed

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "A Limited Partnership: The Black Internet Entrepreneur Had the Idea; the White One Became the Venture's Public Face" ("How Race Is Lived in America," front page, June 14):
Now we know what someone as successful as Tim Cobb, the black entrepreneur, confronts. Imagine what happens when lower-income, African-American and other minority women, far less wired than Mr. Cobb, seek money for their low-tech family day-care or other small-business dreams. Too many financial institutions still dismiss requests for loans to start up women's small businesses. 
 For the sake of our economy, we must hope that Mr. Cobb's story prompts those people and institutions that are so sure the new economy is colorblind to think again.
 
NELL MERLINO
New York, June 14, 2000
 
The writer is a co-founder of Count-Me-In for Women's Economic Independence, an online micro-loan fund.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); MICROFINANCE (88%); NEW ECONOMY (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); WOMEN (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: TIM COBB (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



489 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 3;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: A Summer in America, With a Focus on Health, for 'Children of Chernobyl'

BYLINE: By EUN LEE KOH

 BODY:
Bob Thirkield of Cincinnati paced in the terminal at Kennedy International Airport on Saturday evening like an expectant father in a hospital waiting room.
"I always feel like I'm about to have a baby when I do this," said Mr. Thirkield, 76, a retired businessman and sometime pilot, tugging at his collar and nervously clutching a bottle of Diet Coke. 
 Mr. Thirkield was one of 26 pilots, all volunteers, awaiting the arrival of 154 "children of Chernobyl," who were sickened by the aftermath of the worst nuclear accident in history. The pilots were to fly the children, ages 8 to 15, to American host families scattered across the United States for a summer of medical care and relaxation.
While these children are not terminally ill, their health suffers from the fallout of the 1986 disaster, when fire ripped through a nuclear reactor in Ukraine, killing 28 people outright and spewing radiation over vast stretches of northeastern Europe. Over the years, the high levels of radiation lingering in the area have caused thousands of deaths and illnesses, particularly thyroid cancer.
Though many of these children were not even born when the accident occurred, they are plagued with mouth sores and respiratory problems and are prone to illnesses because of their weakened immune systems. Here, the children are to receive basic medical care -- visits to pediatricians, eye doctors and dentists -- which their families cannot afford at home.
This was Mr. Thirkield's third year as a volunteer pilot for the eight-week program, sponsored by Children of Chernobyl, a nonprofit group based in Youngstown, Ohio, and AirLifeLine, a group of volunteer pilots who give poor patients free flights to receive medical care.
"They are like my children," Mr. Thirkield said. "By the end of the summer, their eyes shine a little bit brighter. You ask them what their favorite food is, and they say McDonald's and pizza."
The program began in 1992 with 11 children. Since then, with more American families willing to be hosts, the number of children has grown steadily, said Joe Knable, 44, the president of Children of Chernobyl.
"We want them to enjoy themselves here, go back to Chernobyl and become leaders in their own communities," Mr. Knable said. "The fact that their parents are willing to send them on a plane to a country they themselves have never been to, to have them spend a summer with a family they've never met, says something about how much these children need this."
For many of the children, this was their first time away from home, and for some, who had been helped by the program before, it was a much-anticipated return trip. One child draped himself in an American flag, and another sported a T-shirt plastered with the boy band 'N Sync, her favorite American singing group.
Back home the children have little access to clean air and water. Mr. Thirkield said that one girl he had flown kept a hedgehog as a pet, because she said it ate the rats that infested her house.
Anastasia Sergeeva, 10, who made the trip last year from Minsk, in Belarus, said through a translator that everything here was "brighter and shinier." She said she made so many new friends during her trip last year that she could not "count them on my fingers and toes."
"But America is not my home," she said. "There's so much fun in America. I know I will always have fun here, but I have lots of responsibilities that I need to still do in my hometown."
Sergei Volochkovich, 11, arrived yesterday after traveling more than 30 hours from Chechelnyk, his village in Ukraine. "I cannot believe I am finally here," he said. He still had more traveling to do to get to his host family in Ohio, but Sergei said he did not care. Dropping his duffel bag on the ground, he stretched his arms out and twirled. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about "children of Chernobyl" visiting the United States for a summer of medical care and relaxation referred imprecisely to the number of deaths and illnesses caused by the accident at the nuclear plant in Ukraine in 1986. As was noted in a correction in this space on Saturday, referring to an article published on June 6, the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has said that 31 people died in the first weeks after the accident. Other estimates of deaths ultimately caused by it range from dozens to tens of thousands; estimates of illnesses range from hundreds to tens of thousands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (91%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (91%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (56%); OHIO, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); FAMILY (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); PEDIATRICS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); CANCER (73%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (70%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (70%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (67%); THYROID CANCER (52%); 

PERSON: BOB THIRKIELD (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



490 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E;Page 1;Column 5;The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Chefs Battle Like Samurai In a Cult Hit

BYLINE: By JULIE SALAMON

 BODY:
It's easy to understand how the premiere of "Survivor" on CBS last month drew 16 million viewers and became one of the network's greatest successes. The show, about a group of strangers pitted against one another on an island in the South China Sea while television cameras looked on, was almost impossible to avoid, with a TV Guide cover, articles in numerous newspapers and a barrage of on-air promotion.
Far more unusual, however, has been the success of an obscure Japanese cooking show called "Iron Chef," which is emerging as the newest cult hit on television. Since its introduction on the Food Network last summer it has become that cable channel's second-highest-rated show after "Emeril Live!" 
 It's a classic illustration of what network people call "appointment viewing": shows people actually make plans to watch, instead of watching by chance or because they're too lazy to change channels. But it's also an example of something new: the way cable television, the Internet and old-fashioned word of mouth can combine to propel quirky phenomena into the mainstream.
Even Julia Child has expressed her delight with the show (in the current issue of Gourmet). But the appeal of "Iron Chef" extends well beyond food enthusiasts. Julie Yaeger, a 31-year-old vice president for publicity at Miramax (who says she is "into the ordering in and eating out phase" of life), for example, was channel-surfing when she was stopped by the "Iron Chef." That was last September. Since then she and her boyfriend, the actor Paul Rudd, and a group of friends frequently get together Friday nights to watch the show.
"Iron Chef" is a rococo blend of highbrow and low, of culinary artistry and wrestling match vulgarity, of fantasy and practicality (though there are no recipes). What captures and holds viewers like Ms. Yaeger is the show's combination of kitsch and craft and the way it cloaks earnest competition and serious cooking in the goofiest trappings, including English dubbing that seems modeled on the exclamatory rhythms of kung-fu movie translations.
The show combines Japanese formalism with American-style showmanship to create a hybrid that is the equivalent of a Pokemon for grown-ups. There is, clearly, a universal appeal in these timed contests between supremely skilled artisans who chop flesh and fruit with speed and ferocity, and with very big knives.
Every week a chef challenger comes to the show to try to defeat one of the regulars, a Cooking Iron Man. (On Sunday, in a special edition taped in New York, Bobby Flay, chef of Mesa Grill and Bolo -- and a Food Network star himself -- will be the challenger.) Moments before the cooking contest begins, each chef is given a single "theme ingredient," which must be the centerpiece of every course in a multicourse meal. The ingredients can be as pedestrian as a potato, as exotic as bird's nest and oat yam.
The cooks, with a supporting cast of assistants, have one hour to finish. Dishes are prepared in a real-time frenzy. Beautiful and sometimes bizarre creations (sturgeon-head ice cream and frog-fish creme brulee) emerge from this on-the-spot creation of a menu. A panel of four judges tastes, comments and declares the winner.
The show always opens with a quotation from Brillat-Savarin, the 18th-century French gourmet and philosopher, which appears on the screen: "Tell me what you eat, and I'll tell you what you are." Then a narrator briefly recounts the tale of Takeshi Kaga, a wealthy man with a fantasy "to encounter new and original cuisines, which could be called true artistic creations."
We see the slender Mr. Kaga, who dresses like Liberace, sampling food and surveying the scene. The opening ritual continues as Mr. Kaga chooses a yellow pepper from a pile of peppers, bites into it and smiles mysteriously. "Iron Chef" aficionados debate whether his smile is ironic or not. Is it a smile or, in fact, a smirk?
The camera pans across the Kitchen Stadium, a studio with red-draped backdrops and torch-lit runways. Portentous music throbs, as the four Iron Chefs come rising out of the stage like fountains in front of a Las Vegas hotel. The narrator introduces the challenger chefs and video clips of their restaurants, shot in the homespun style of a local commercial.
Mr. Kaga unveils the ingredient of the week, sounds the Gong of Fate, and the culinary samurai prepare to do battle. The commentators, former Japanese sports announcers, have transported the play-by-play patter of the sports arena to the kitchen. "Look at this, check it out," one of them pants during one session featuring pork bellies.
Though challengers do receive free advertisements for their restaurants, their real reward is honor. There is no cash prize. The show's resident Iron Chefs aren't unseated, even if they're defeated. So it doesn't diminish the fun to discover that host Kaga is an actor (who has played Jean Valjean in "Les Miserables" and Jesus in "Jesus Christ Superstar"), and that chefs are informed in advance of possible ingredients that may be selected for the battle. The show's purity transcends its fakery.
From 1993 through 1999 "Iron Chef" was one of Japan's most popular shows. It became an underground favorite in Los Angeles and San Francisco three years ago, when local cable stations broadcast it during Japanese-language programming blocks. Web sites proliferated, in English and Japanese. Food Network bought "Iron Chef," which its producer, Fuji Television Network, had translated into English, but wasn't prepared for the response.
"When I first took a look at the show, I was immediately captured by the humor, and my culinary staff was transfixed as well by the food information," says Eileen Opatut, the network's head of programming, who is nevertheless astonished by the show's popularity. Nielsen Media Research reports that about 222,000 people watched each "Iron Chef" episode in May, as against the 131,000 viewers seven months earlier. These numbers are tiny by network standards but impressive in the world of cable, which reaches many fewer homes and operates with much smaller programming and marketing budgets.
It's impossible to explain why some shows cross the line. "Antiques Road Show" -- which tours the country and features experts who appraise viewers' antiques -- has become the top-rated program on PBS, with a regular audience of almost 14 million fans. "The Crocodile Hunter" on Animal Planet is about to spawn its own toy line. "Iron Chef" isn't yet in that league: no dolls wearing chef's hats are due any time soon. Even so, its success is remarkable.
Fuji Television Network, which produced the original 290 episodes of "Iron Chef," spared no expense on food ingredients. The company spent $7.7 million on exotica like matsutake -- a Japanese mushroom that cost around $300 an ounce -- and electric eel and lobster (used by one chef to flavor an asparagus dish, which required the lobster to be discarded after its essence was extracted).
"The show seems associated with the years of the economic bubble, and the absurd extravagances of the late 80's," said Jordan Sand, who teaches Japanese history and culture at Georgetown University and who discovered "Iron Chef" when he was living in Japan in 1994. "Since it ran in the post-bubble years, it must be parodic. It was more funny because the dream was over."
Whether or not "Iron Chef" signaled a cultural response to economic stimuli, the elaborate machinations of the chefs undoubtedly harken to a particularly Japanese kind of food fetishism. "Iron Chef" follows the tradition of Mr. Ajikko, the main character of a Japanese cartoon series shown in the 1980's about a boy who traveled around the country challenging chefs to culinary battles. And remember "Tampopo," the 1987 Japanese comedy, in which all of life boiled down to the perfect bowl of noodles?
In the United States the word has spread in many ways. Paul Witcover's girlfriend forced him to watch the show the first time and then he was hooked. They've broken up, but each remains faithful to "Iron Chef."
"Look at the cooks, the effort and the passion they put into their work; that cannot be faked," said Mr. Witcover, 41, who writes science fiction. "Did you see the first woman chef?" he asked. "She slices her hand open and the blood is flowing. There are no doctors on hand so, they take masking tape and tape her hand, and she continues to cook. The samurai aspect rose to the core with this woman who wounds herself and battles on"
Mr. Witcover introduced the show to Dan Von Behren, who works for a computer software company. "Now I have hundreds of people who can pontificate about the beauty of the 'Iron Chef,' " he said. On Thanksgiving he and three friends, from different cities, convened to have their own "Iron Chef" cook-off.
"I watch N.Y.P.D. Blue," Mr. Behren said. "I watch West Wing. I love the Simpsons." Still, what attracts him to "Iron Chef" is a bit of a mystery to him. "I don't know how to describe it," he said.
Knowing how to cook, or wanting to cook, or being a grown-up, is not a prerequisite. Sam Tobis, a 10-year-old fifth-grader in Manhattan, took a look at the show after overhearing friends of his parents talking about it. He was mesmerized by the sight of a chef frying the scales of sea bass and then serving them with chocolate sauce.
"It's the skill mixed with the rarity of everything that's going on," he said, offering a persuasive argument for the show's attraction. "It's so 21st century. Everything is weird and different."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A Critic's Notebook article on June 19 about the success of a Japanese cooking show, "Iron Chef," on the Food Network misidentified the author who praised the show in an article in Gourmet magazine. She was Judith Crist, not Julia Child.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sturgeon-head ice cream, prepared by Japanese experts, with assistants, might emerge in a frenzied "Iron Chef" contest, which offers no recipes but only entertainment as a chef challenger tries to defeat a regular. Every show is built around a "theme ingredient" (a potato or bird's nest), the focus of a multicourse meal. (Photographs from Food Network)(pg. E1); Takeshi Kaga sounds the Gong of Fate, setting knives in motion. (Food Network)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (84%); FOOD NETWORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); MARTIAL ARTS (67%); 

PERSON: BOBBY FLAY (55%); EMERIL LAGASSE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000



491 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Novel Rockets Speed Dreams of Sending People to Mars

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
A new type of rocket engine under development could halve the travel time between Earth and Mars -- should NASA ever decide to send astronauts there.
"I think it's the technology that's going to take us to Mars," said Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, a shuttle astronaut and director of the Advanced Space Propulsion Laboratory at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. 
 Instead of relying on chemical reactions like conventional rockets, Dr. Chang-Diaz's creation, the Variable Specific Impulse Magnetoplasma Rocket, or Vasimr, uses radio waves to heat the fuel and magnetic fields to direct a stream of ultrahot ionized gases.
NASA last week announced that it was collaborating with MSE Technology Applications of Butte, Mont., to develop the Vasimr technology, still years away from use in space. MSE is creating computer models for shaping the magnetic fields that form the engine's nozzle.
Space buffs have long dreamed of sending astronauts to Mars. But that dream, which once looked like the next destination after Moon landings, is still far from reality, stymied by hurdles as much economic and political as technological.
By the early 1950's, the pioneering rocket scientist Wernher von Braun had already worked out a detailed, if fanciful, plan for sending a fleet of 10 colossal spaceships to Mars, powered by conventional chemical rockets.
"We've had the engineering capability with chemical propulsion to undertake a mission to Mars for years, for decades," said Les Johnson, who heads the exploration transportation technologies portion of the advanced space transportation program at the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala.
"What it boils down to," Mr. Johnson said, "is, Is it safe enough? Is it affordable?"
Lifting one pound of material from the Earth's surface into orbit costs about $10,000. With each of von Braun's interplanetary behemoths weighing about 4,000 tons -- or about 10 times the weight of the International Space Station once it is completed -- the price tag of merely lugging the building materials into orbit would run more than $800 billion.
By the time Neil Armstrong stepped on the Moon in 1969, von Braun, then the director of the Marshall Space Center, had devised a slimmed down, more realistic proposal to send a single nuclear powered spaceship to Mars , with the first astronaut stepping onto Martian soil in 1982.
The 1969 design still came in at about 800 tons, and fuel accounted for three-quarters of the mass. The manned missions to Mars never got off the drawing board.
Since then, engineers have whittled away at that mass. A lighter rocket reduces the amount of fuel needed. A more efficient rocket engine also trims fuel requirements.
Rocket engines work by the same principle as throwing a baseball while seated on slippery ice: because of conservation of momentum, the thrower starts sliding in the opposite direction of the baseball, and the harder the throw, the faster the thrower slides.
"Basically, a rocket works by shooting material out the back at high speeds," said Dr. Chang-Diaz. "The higher the speed of the material, the better the rocket is. The speed of the material coming out the back is proportional to the temperature of the material."
The Vasimr is part of NASA's frugal but continuing research in new rocket technologies.
Chemical rocket engines -- like those of the space shuttle -- throw out propellant at the relatively low temperature of about 5,000 degrees Fahrenheit, and the relatively slow speed of 10,000 miles per hour.
Boosting the temperature and speed of the exiting exhaust in chemical rocket engines is possible, but that can cause another problem: destroying the engine. "You could try to go to a higher temperature, but it would just melt," Dr. Chang-Diaz said. "There's no known material that can hold these gases."
Vasimr avoids the melting engine problem by containing and guiding the gases with magnetic fields.
The engine works by injecting the hydrogen fuel into a chamber where it is bombarded by radio waves. "Like a microwave oven," Dr. Chang-Diaz said. The radio waves heat the gas and strip away electrons from the hydrogen atoms, creating a gas of positively charged protons and negatively charged electrons.
The resulting charged particles spiral around in a magnetic field as radio waves further heat them until they escape out the back of the engine at speeds of up to 650,000 m.p.h., or about 60 times as fast as the exhaust from the chemical rockets.
By altering the magnetic fields, the engine's nozzle can be opened up for more thrust as the spaceship enters or leaves orbit and can be throttled back for better fuel efficiency during the trip. Chemical rockets, in contrast, fire much more powerful bursts, but they can only be sustained for minutes. The continuous firing of the plasma engine would cut the astronauts' Earth-to-Mars trip from six months to three months, reducing the astronauts' exposure to damaging cosmic radiation and calcium-draining weightlessness.
According to Dr. Chang-Diaz, the total mass sent to Mars via a Vasimr-powered mission, with one spaceship carrying the astronauts and a second carrying most of the supplies, would be about 400 tons.
Dr. Chang-Diaz has built a small prototype. An in-orbit test of the concept could come as soon as 2004.
The technology can also be used for thrusters on Earth-orbiting satellites. "The limiting factor in the life of a satellite is its propellant," Dr. Chang-Diaz said. "They run out of gas and they become space junk."
Michael Conley, deputy manager of the advanced development office at the Johnson Space Center, said, "The Vasimr really looks promising."
Vasimr is not the only engine being considered for a mission. NASA studies still consider chemical and solar-powered propulsion as the first option.
Another option revives the notion of nuclear-thermal engines used in von Braun's 1969 plan. In these, hydrogen gas is heated by running it past the core of a nuclear reactor. Other engines with exotic names like pulsed inductive thrusters and magnetoplasmadynamic, or MPD, engines, are also under study.
"Some are more efficient than others," said Mr. Johnson of the Marshall Space Center. "Some might scale better to higher energies. It's too early to say which is going to win the horse race."
Any of these new technologies would raise a politically sensitive issue for NASA. "Any engine that is not a chemical rocket will probably require a nuclear reactor," Dr. Chang-Diaz said.
A Vasimr engine does not directly use a nuclear reactor, but a rocket powerful enough to send people to Mars would need to tap into a 10-megawatt power source to generate the magnetic fields and radio waves. That is more power than can be produced by solar panels.
The nuclear issue is one reason NASA has not yet embraced the newer engines. "There could be some socio-political implications if we pick nuclear right away," Mr. Conley said. "If we could do it with solar, we'd like to do it with solar."
The engine decision also depends on when, if ever, NASA decides to send astronauts to Mars and how quickly it wants to get there. "If we were going in 10 years, there would be one answer," Mr. Johnson said. "There'd be another if we had 15 years."
The nuclear-thermal engine would be the easiest and quickest to develop. The Vasimr is the most fuel efficient. Other engines have other benefits and trade-offs.
For the present, the research is not a high priority. NASA spends only a few million dollars a year exploring advanced propulsion systems.
"There is no NASA plan to send people to Mars," Mr. Johnson said. "There is no NASA plan to send people beyond low-Earth orbit. What we're doing is looking at options."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: NASA hopes Vasimr, a rocket that utilizes radio waves and magnetic fields, might someday be a way to Mars. (Rendering by NASA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARS (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); EARTH'S MOON (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; ADVANCED SPACE PROPULSION LABORATORY; MSE TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS MSE TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS (56%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (92%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (91%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; ADVANCED SPACE PROPULSION LABORATORY; MSE TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (92%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (91%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (PLANET); UNITED STATES (92%); MARS (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); EARTH'S MOON (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ROCKETS AND ROCKET PROPULSION; MAGNETISM AND MAGNETS SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACE PROPULSION (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SPACE STATIONS (78%); 

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH; CHANG-DIAZ, FRANKLIN R (DR) FRANKLIN CHANG-DIAZ (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



492 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Guggenheim In Pact With Hermitage

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
Two art institutions with visions of expansion but strikingly different economic positions -- the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia -- have reached an agreement to share their collections, organize joint exhibitions and help each other develop a worldwide network of museums.
The Guggenheim, with museums in New York and three European cities, has long had an interest in sharing the Hermitage's world-class collection of old master, Impressionist and Post-Impressionist works, antiquities and decorative arts. The Hermitage, with severe budgetary problems, has envied the Guggenheim's financial resources and entrepreneurship. 
 Dr. Mikhail B. Piotrovsky, director of the Hermitage, whose vision has been severely hampered by the lack of funds, described the collaboration as "One plus one makes three."
"We have two brands and can cooperate in different kinds of activities in different parts of the world," he said in a telephone interview yesterday from St. Petersburg. "This is not just about fund-raising and development. It's about creating the model for museums of the 21st century."
Neither Dr. Piotrovsky nor Thomas Krens, director of the Guggenheim, would discuss what kinds of financial commitments were part of the agreement, if any. But if they accomplish most of what they say they intend to, this would probably be the most extensive collaboration between two world-class museums.
The largest cooperative agreement reached recently by art institutions was between the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan and the Tate Gallery in London, which have formed a partnership to create an Internet business for art, culture and design. The Hermitage has also collaborated in a limited way with the Modern.
In St. Petersburg, the Guggenheim is to become a partner in the $100 million development of the east wing of the 400,000-square-foot former General Staff Building, built in the 19th century on Palace Square, facing the Winter Palace of the Hermitage. The Russian government, which owns the building, has agreed to transfer it to the Hermitage. For two years the museum has been accepting proposals from developers for turning the building and its surrounding courtyards into a cultural compound.
Mr. Krens said he had appointed a group of three architects whom he declined to name to put together a proposal to use 400 of the building's 610 rooms for cultural purposes, including art and technology galleries and film-viewing rooms. The rest of the site would be used for shops and a hotel.
The project would house galleries for major portions of the Hermitage's collection of Impressionist and post-Impressionist paintings, along with its collections of sculpture, costumes, arms and armor, jewelry and decorative arts. It would also include postwar modern and contemporary art, multimedia installations and photography from the Guggenheim's collections.
The Guggenheim said it was ready to help in the planning and design of its gallery spaces as well as with exhibition programming that would focus on modern and contemporary art.
In exchange, the Hermitage would have a presence at a proposed additional Guggenheim museum in Manhattan. A suite of galleries devoted to works from the Hermitage would become part of the plan for a new Guggenheim museum to be designed by the Los Angeles architect Frank O. Gehry for three piers at Wall Street on the East River. The plan is one of several by various sponsors for the city-owned site, with a selection expected sometime this year.
The collaboration is also to include exchanges between the Hermitage and the Guggenheim's existing museums: its Fifth Avenue headquarters designed by Frank Lloyd Wright and its sister museums in Bilbao, Spain; Venice; and Berlin.
The agreement will also open the way for the Guggenheim to assist the Hermitage on various international projects.
In addition to its two million square feet of exhibition space in St. Petersburg, the Hermitage will open a suite of eight rooms later this year in London at Somerset House, a late 18th-century mansion, where it plans to mount rotating exhibitions.
The Hermitage also plans to transform a home for the elderly in Amsterdam into a satellite museum in 2006.
In a statement to be issued today, the two museums say they also plan to collaborate on developing and building other museums around the world. After the success of the Guggenheim Bilbao in the Basque region, which opened in 1997 and has had a million visitors a year, it has been approached by various cities with requests to study possible new museums.
"We've both been approached by many, many, many cities around the world," said Mr. Krens. "By joining together and approaching these projects as a joint venture, we can mobilize quality and content."
The two institutions may well be a good fit. The Hermitage collections stop at the beginning of the 20th century. The Guggenheim's range from the late 19th century to the present, with strong representation of postwar and contemporary art.
The Guggenheim has a history of organizing exhibitions of Russian art, including "The Great Utopia: The Russian and Soviet Avant-Garde, 1915-1932," in 1992, and "Amazons of the Avant-Garde: Aleksandra Exter, Natalya Gonscharova, Liubov Popova, Olga Rozanova, Varvara Stepanova and Nadezhda Udaltsova," which opened at the Guggenheim in Berlin last year, then traveled to the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice and is currently on view in Bilbao. It is to open at the Guggenheim in Manhattan in September.
"We've been involved with Russia for 12 years," said Mr. Krens. "And have built trust and confidence over the years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, left, in Manhattan and the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia, have agreed to share their collections as well as organize exhibitions together. (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBUI (OTC) (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, FOUNDATION; HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG) INTERNET BUSINESS CENTER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, FOUNDATION; HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; PIOTROVSKY, MIKHAIL B (DR) THOMAS KRENS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



493 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2148 words

HEADLINE: Hardly Dead, Physics Lives Out a Permanent Revolution

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON 

 BODY:
With the stern visage of Leon Trotsky glaring from a huge screen behind the lectern, Dr. Joseph Lykken, a particle physicist at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Batavia, Ill., launched into his best parody of a coffeehouse radical railing against the counterrevolutionary tendencies of the old guard.
"Among the many crimes of the bourgeois overlords of HEP and their running dog lackeys is to have allowed the misapprehension among students (and the public) that particle physics is almost done," he declared in a manifesto delivered near the end of an international conference on particle physics last August at Stanford. 
 "HEP," in the jargon, is high-energy physics, the attempt to use powerful particle accelerators to study the tiniest pieces of matter. Dr. Lykken was tired of hearing some of his own colleagues lament that this centuries-long pursuit had run out of intellectual steam and was coming to an end.
"Trotsky was right," Dr. Lykken proclaimed as the image of the dour Bolshevik and advocate of never-ending political upheaval grimaced through his goatee. "In fact high-energy physics is exciting and will remain exciting precisely because it exists in a state of permanent revolution."
After years of impasse, the study of subatomic particles has been undergoing something of a renaissance. A new generation of physicists is stretching its collective mind and coming up with radical ideas about how the universe may be constructed. Some are proposing the existence of extra dimensions. Others are building bridges between islands of thought that once seemed hopelessly remote, rekindling hopes of a unified "theory of everything" that would explain all the particles and forces of nature. Still others are looking for the very building blocks of space and time. And, most surprising of all, the young physicists are finding ways to test indirectly even some of the wildest ideas with experiments.
"This is a very exciting time in high-energy physics," said Dr. Nima Arkani-Hamed, a 28-year-old physicist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, whose ideas on extra dimensions have helped inspire a rethinking of superstring theory, the attempt to explain matter and energy in terms of tiny vibrating strings. "Three years ago, everyone thought that all possibilities for what one could imagine seeing at high energies had been realized," he said. "This new work shows that you can see completely different bizarre things." The "whole shebang," he said, might be "right around the corner."
Maria Spiropulu, a 30-year-old physicist who is getting her Ph.D. in August, is searching for the hypothetical extra dimensions by poring over data from accelerator experiments at Fermilab. "Whether it is extra dimensions or extra-anything that will lead us to answers about how nature swings, we can only find out really by means of experiment," she said. "If it's not extra dimensions, it will be something as crazy as extra dimensions."
The charge is being led by people in their 20's and early 30's, who chose to enter the field in the thick of the malaise. Ideas have been coming so fast that Dr. Lykken, part of an older generation who got Ph.D.'s back in the early 1980's, is convinced that physics, far from being over, has barely begun. "There is no reason to imagine that we are near the end of this process," he said in his lecture, "barring the collapse of our civilization -- by which I mean, our funding gets cut off."
Though exaggerating for effect and preaching a bit to the choir, he was countering what until recently was a growing sense of gloom. Particle physics, many wistfully believed, may have reached its pinnacle some 30 years earlier with the soaring piece of architecture called the standard model. According to this theory, the culmination of decades of theorizing and experimentation, matter is made from two kinds of particles: lightweight "leptons," like the electron and neutrino, and quarks. Animating these building blocks, causing them to join together and break apart, are three kinds of forces: electromagnetism and the strong and weak nuclear reactions. The forces are also made from particles, called quanta. The photon, for example, carries electromagnetism.
Impressive as the standard model has been, surviving one experimental challenge after another, there is much that it has not explained. It does not mention the fourth force, gravity, described by a completely different theory called general relativity. Nor can the standard model say why the hundreds of different particles come in such a bewildering variety of masses, or why there are 4 forces instead of 5, or 27 or 43.
In fact, the standard model seemed, when it was devised, like a rest stop on a march toward something greater. But in the succeeding years, attempts to go beyond it hit one snag after another. The feeling of discouragement reached its peak in 1993, with the death of the superconducting super collider, a powerful accelerator thought necessary to test ideas about the universe. The tunnels that had been partially dug to house the accelerator were abandoned. One company inquired about using them as a mushroom farm.
In its January millennium issue, Wired magazine, a barometer of what is supposed to be technologically trendy, listed quarks among tired old 20th-century ideas that would fade. "Particle physics has been gut-shot ever since the spectacular failure of the superconducting super collider," wrote Bruce Sterling, a science fiction writer who compiled the list. "The next generation of physicists is going where the real money is -- computer science. At the end of the 20th century, the only thing more pitifully dated than being an atom splitter is being a rocket scientist."
Before the recent revival, even some of the physicists themselves feared becoming scientific has-beens. "There were a lot of depressed people running around," Dr. Lykken said.
Some had put their hopes in superstring theory, which holds that beneath the level of quarks and leptons are tinier entities called strings. For the idea to work, the superstrings seemed to need the extra wiggle room afforded by an inconceivable space consisting of nine dimensions (10 counting time). But to explain why humans experience only three of the dimensions, theorists were forced to assume that the others must each be curled up too tiny to detect. Superstring theory, some critics retorted, was more like medieval theology than science: reality would be explained through pure reason without the need for experiment. Adding to the frustration, there seemed to be five candidate string theories with no sign of which one explained this universe.
Outside of superstring theory, more traditional approaches to soup up the standard model also failed. Quarks come in three different types whimsically called "colors": red, green and blue. Maybe, some hoped, an even more abstract quality called technicolor would solve the problems. Or perhaps a concept called supersymmetry, which predicted a mirror world of particles with names like squarks and sneutrinos, would plug the gaps in understanding. But either the ideas were wrong and the particles did not exist, or physicists would need far more powerful accelerators -- and brains -- to find them.
Then, in the mid-1990's, the conceptual logjam began to break. The first wave of excitement came when theorists realized that the five different string theories were just varying perspectives of the same underlying idea. Five blind men had been looking at the same elephant.
Building on this and other ideas, a 29-year-old Argentinian theorist named Juan Maldacena made a conceptual leap in 1997 that many hope will point to a more complete picture of physics. In a paper that caused a sensation among string theorists, he uncovered hints of unexpected links between superstring theory and the standard model. If he is right, then what seemed like two different theoretical worlds, each with a different language, might be reflections of a single underlying truth -- the ultimate theory.
Dr. Maldacena's paper caused so much excitement that theorists at a string theory conference in Santa Barbara, Calif., literally danced for joy, grinding through the steps of the macarena, shouting physics-filled lyrics that climaxed with the refrain, "Ehhh, Maldacena!"
For all the light shed by Dr. Maldacena's conjecture, physicists were still left with the problem of how to prove the existence of the tiny dimensions. In 1998, Dr. Arkani-Hamed, then a 25-year-old Stanford postdoctoral researcher, suggested a possible way out. He and two colleagues -- another young physicist, Dr. Gia Dvali, and a senior Stanford professor, Dr. Savas Dimopoulos -- made the startling suggestion that at least one of the extra dimensions might be large enough to measure. What people had been thinking of as the universe may actually be part of something grander: a three-dimensional island floating inside a fourth dimension no more than a millimeter wide. (This may be somewhat easier to visualize if you think of this universe as a sheet of paper, a two-dimensional "flatland" light-years in length and breadth, floating inside a narrow sliver of space.)
That sounds like a tight fit, but a millimeter is gargantuan compared with the prevailing idea that the hidden dimensions are 10 to the minus 32 millimeters in size -- smaller by a factor of 100 million trillion trillion. This sprawling higher dimension has gone unnoticed, the three scientists proposed, because the particles that make up our universe are stuck to the surface of the island, barred from entering the surrounding space. But gravitons, the carriers of gravity, can trickle into the netherworld. This suggested ways to search for the extra dimension by looking for hints of gravitational leaks.
The next year, two more theorists, Dr. Lisa Randall and Dr. Raman Sundrum, both in their mid-30's, devised another theory in which the universe is surrounded by a higher dimension, this one infinite in size. Evidence is also being sought in accelerator data.
"These ideas don't have to be realized in nature," Dr. Arkani-Hamed said. "But if they are, this will run counter to the whole idea of things being at an end and physics being reduced to philosophy. I think it's amazing that it took 20 years until the very simple but certainly radical ideas that we propose sort of crashed the standard model and made it possible that traditional particle physics could be string theory in 10 years."
Recently, two 30-year-old Stanford physicists, Dr. Shamit Kachru and Dr. Eva Silverstein have been using large extra dimensions and other ideas to try to explain a glaring cosmology problem. Scientists are becoming increasingly convinced that a strange energy field described as the cosmological constant is boosting the expansion of the universe, causing it to accelerate. Particle physics, as it is now understood, explains how this kind of inflation can occur, but it predicts that the phenomenon should be far more intense -- that the universe should be growing very rapidly, or rapidly collapsing on itself. "It looks like we are really missing a crucial piece of physics here," Dr. Kachru said.
The remedies they suggest are still very tentative, but Dr. Silverstein says the joy is in the chase. "It can be quite thrilling to pursue an idea one finds exciting, or simply to understand something about physics better," she said.
The reigning idea of the quantum revolution in the early 20th century was that energy was not smooth and continuous but came in discrete packets, the quanta. Another challenge of physics is to see if time and space also have an internal structure. "I always thought that if we could look really close, space and space-time would turn out to be not smooth and geometrical, as in Einstein's theory, but 'bumpy' and made up of building blocks," said Dr. Fotini Markopoulou Kalamara, 29, a researcher at Imperial College in London. She is part of a group trying to show that space and time are built from mathematical units called spin nets.
With a slightly different turn of fate she might not have gone into physics. As an undergraduate she spent a summer at a national physics laboratory in England: "My supervisor there told me many times that I should not go into particle physics, that the era of accelerators and great experiments was all over and it was a dying field," Dr. Markopoulou said. "In fact, he advised me to do biology, which he thought was the science of the future."
The lesson of all this, Dr. Arkani-Hamed said, is that theorists should never assume they have already thought of every possibility for how the world works. "What it says to me is that you should never underestimate the feebleness of the human imagination," he said. "We're really struggling in the dark."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Lisa Randall of Princeton and M.I.T., and Dr. Raman Sundrum of Stanford, have suggested that the ordinary dimensions of space are surrounded by an infinite fifth dimension. A 1998 breakthrough by Dr. Juan Maldacena, a Harvard theorist, had superstring theorists dancing. Dr. Fotini Markopoulou Kalamara, a quantum gravity theorist, investigates the geometrical and mathematical structures of space and time. (Jiri Rezac for the New York Times); (AP Photo/MacArthur Foundation, Susan Lapides); (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. F6); Dr. Nima Arkani-Hamed (left) explores the fifth dimension. Maria Spiropulu, at Fermilab, searches for clues to extra dimensions. Dr. Eva Silverstein and Dr. Shamit Kachru hope to explain the accelerating universe. (Yonatan Zunger for The New York Times); (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times); (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PHYSICS; RESEARCH PHYSICS (96%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (95%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE JOSEPH LYKKEN (72%); LEON TROTSKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



494 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Publicis Said To Be Ready To Buy Saatchi In Stock Deal

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
Publicis S.A., which last month lost out to the WPP Group in an effort to buy Young & Rubicam Inc., plans to buy Saatchi & Saatchi, the British agency company descended from the empire of the acquisitive Saatchi brothers, for at least $1.5 billion in stock, advertising executives close to the deal said yesterday.
Saatchi & Saatchi unexpectedly disclosed yesterday that its executives had been approached to begin discussions that could result in an offer for the agency company, the world's 11th largest in terms of billings and revenue. Though the terms of the proposed deal were not disclosed and the potential acquirer was not identified, shares of Saatchi & Saatchi climbed 27 percent in London, giving the agency company a market value of more than $1.4 billion. 
 Advertising executives close to the deal said that Publicis would acquire Saatchi & Saatchi for $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion in stock. The deal would significantly increase the Publicis presence in the United States, the world's largest advertising market.
Maurice Levy, the chairman and chief executive of Publicis -- which has a worldwide ranking of eighth in billings and ninth in revenue -- scheduled a news conference in Paris for this morning on a topic he declined to discuss. Mr. Levy is expected to lead the merged company.
The acquisition would be further evidence of the growing appeal of independent agency companies as the consolidation of the advertising industry that began six years ago continues at a breakneck pace.
"The increasing globalization of brand marketing is accelerating due to the Web," said Leland Westerfield, an analyst with PaineWebber in New York. "Saatchi & Saatchi could probably operate favorably on its own, but agencies need to grow on a global basis to serve key clients."
The pending acquisition of Y.& R., based in New York, by WPP, based in London, would create the world's biggest agency company in both categories. A hookup with Saatchi & Saatchi as a kind of consolation prize for Publicis would create the fifth-largest agency company in billings and revenue.
"WPP and Y.& R. took the gloves off in terms of the size of the deals," said Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. "Now we're talking about bigger names."
"Six months ago, this would have been hard to accept," he added, referring to a combination of Publicis with Saatchi & Saatchi. 'Now it's 'Of course.' "
Spokesmen at both agency companies declined to discuss the negotiations.
"All we can say is that we received an approach that may or may not result in a merger offer," said Richard Walters at Saatchi & Saatchi in London, adding: "I can't say any more. Watch this space."
His counterpart at Publicis, Seth Goldschlager, said he would not comment on "market speculation."
Needless to say, there is no similar inhibition among industry analysts and deal makers, who relished discussing what might become of Saatchi & Saatchi.
"It's one of the ones that had to go," said Abbott Jones, managing director at AdMedia Partners in New York, which specializes in transactions involving agencies and media companies. "There aren't that many left."
Saatchi & Saatchi and Publicis are among six independent agency companies that have been consistently identified by analysts as ready to buy or be bought; the others are the Cordiant Communications Group, Grey Advertising, Havas Advertising and True North Communications.
"Megaagencies are in a wonderful position to handle the business of megaclients," said Alan J. Gottesman, who follows advertising for West End Communications in New York.
Though Publicis has already acquired several American agencies, including Fallon, Hal Riney & Partners, the Evans Group and Frankel, owning Saatchi & Saatchi will offer additional opportunities to work with blue-chip marketers like General Mills, Hewlett-Packard and Johnson & Johnson.
The deal would require the blessings of giant clients of Saatchi & Saatchi like Procter & Gamble and Toyota, which make up more than a third of the agency company's billings, by Mr. Jones's estimate. There could be some difficulties on that front because agencies now owned by Publicis work for competitors of those companies like L'Oreal, General Motors and Renault.
"The major clients dictate the marriage partner," Mr. Jones said. "Look to the clients and you have the possibilities."
The deal will move forward, he added, if the merged agency company "can handle P.& G. and Toyota without getting in trouble."
Saatchi & Saatchi was founded by Maurice Saatchi and his brother, Charles, and won widespread recognition for its ads that helped bring Margaret Thatcher and the Conservative Party to power in Britain. The agency grew rapidly during the 1980's with a spate of deals.
The debt from those deals, poorly received plans to expand beyond advertising and the global recession all combined to wound Saatchi & Saatchi deeply during the early and mid- 1990's. That enabled two American agency companies, the Interpublic Group of Companies and the Omnicom Group, to race ahead by making acquisitions of their own.
"Interpublic and Omnicom have had 10 years of practice in getting it right," Mr. Gottesman at West End Communications said.
Saatchi & Saatchi's recovery from its missteps was hampered by a bitter dispute that emerged between the Saatchi brothers and the agency company's board, which led to their departure at the end of 1994. As they formed their own agency, M&C Saatchi, Saatchi & Saatchi was renamed Cordiant P.L.C.
Three years later, Cordiant was "demerged" to form two separate agency companies, Saatchi & Saatchi and Bates Worldwide, later renamed the Cordiant Communications Group. Cordiant Communications shares also climbed yesterday in London, rising 12.3 percent.
The Saatchi & Saatchi disclosure "identifies the value of Cordiant" to investors, said Andy Boland, investor relations director at Cordiant Communications in London, as the number of independent agency companies of their size keeps dwindling. Saatchi & Saatchi and Cordiant Communications each own 50 percent of Zenith Media, a worldwide media services and research agency.
Saatchi & Saatchi has recently been selling interests in units outside its core agency like Siegel & Gale, a corporate identity consulting company now known as Siegelgale.com; and Cliff Freeman & Partners, a creatively focused shop in New York. The trade publication PR Week reported last month that the Saatchi & Saatchi public relations agency, Rowland Worldwide, would be sold to Edelman Public Relations Worldwide in New York.
The 27 percent increase yesterday in the price of shares of Saatchi & Saatchi was arked the largest single gain since it began trading separately from Cordiant in December 1997. In trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, the American depository shares of Saatchi & Saatchi climbed $7.6875, or 30.3 percent, to $33.0625. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: SAATCHI & SAATCHI PLC; PUBLICIS SA PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (92%); WPP PLC (92%); YOUNG & RUBICAM INC (91%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAATCHI & SAATCHI PLC; PUBLICIS SA

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BRANDING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (65%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MAURICE LEVY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



495 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN GAINS. The yen rose after Yutaka Yamaguchi, the deputy governor of the Bank of Japan, suggested the bank was closer to raising interest rates. In New York, the dollar settled at 105.75 yen, down from 106.31.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES JAPANESE YEN (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

PERSON: YAMAGUCHI, YUTAKA YUTAKA YAMAGUCHI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



496 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Hopes for Strong Earnings Lift Dow and the Nasdaq

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Pinning their hopes for strong earnings on the technology segment, investors bought Intel and other stalwarts, driving the Dow Jones industrials and the Nasdaq composite sharply higher yesterday.
While the market averages rose, there were notable pockets of weakness. A bastion of the old economy, the Dow component Honeywell International, became the latest big name to warn that its second-quarter earnings would miss expectations, and its stock plunged. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 108.54 points, or 1 percent, to 10,557.84. The Nasdaq composite index soared 129.27 points, or 3.4 percent, to 3,989.83.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also rose, gaining 21.54 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,486.00.
Investors' sensitivity to the coming corporate earnings set the tone for the session. Hank Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan., said buyers were seeking out shares of technology companies that are expected to post the strongest earnings growth.
"For the past week or two, there's been a tendency to chase after strong earnings," he said. "That means technology companies that do hardware and infrastructure."
Intel rose 10 7/16 , to 136 1/2, accounting for much of the Nasdaq's gains. The company said it would invest $2 billion in a new plant in Ireland. Dan Niles, a Lehman Brothers analyst, said Intel's stock price should reach $175 within 12 months.
On the Nasdaq, Rambus rose 15 1/4, to 91 1/4, after signing a deal last week to license memory technology to the Japanese chip maker Toshiba.
Financial stocks bounced back strongly from steep losses on Friday, when investors sold shares on reports that some banks would have trouble collecting on loans as the economy slows.
J. P. Morgan rose 2 1/16 , to 120 9/16 , and Citigroup rose 1 3/8, to 64 1/8. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter rose 3 5/16 , to 84 7/16 .
Analysts said many investors felt that Friday's sell-off was overdone. Also, expectations that the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates unchanged at its June 27-28 meeting helped the financial sector, which is highly sensitive to rate fluctuations.
The strength in technology stocks and the rebound in financial issues helped the market overcome Honeywell's earnings warning.
Confirming speculation that swirled in morning trading, Honeywell said it expected earnings to come in between 73 cents and 77 cents a share, below analysts' forecasts of 78 cents a share.
Honeywell plummeted 8 1/2, to 40 1/4. The company, which was formed in 1999 in the merger of AlliedSignal and Honeywell, cited unexpected parts shortages in its aerospace unit, higher-than-expected raw material prices in its performance materials unit and high interest rates.
Companies are in the midst of the preannouncement period leading up to next month's earnings reports, giving Wall Street advance notice of any surprises.
While profit growth is expected to be quite strong, early reports have suggested that rising interest rates are beginning to take a toll. The market's strike against Honeywell proved that any company facing earnings problems is likely to face a harsh penalty.
"An economic slowdown would translate into lower corporate earnings," said Gail Dudack, chief equity strategist at UBS Warburg. "The predictability of earnings will become a prime concern of investors."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Decline
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell as a one-month rally left yields too low to entice investors, who instead bought nongovernment debt for its bigger yield to cushion against the risk of faster inflation.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 7/32 , to 104 2/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.89 percent from 5.87 percent on Friday. The 10-year note declined 6/32 , to 103 22/32 , while its yield rose to 5.99 percent from 5.97 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of a 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.562	97.007	High Rate	5.69%	5.92%	Investment Rate	5.85%	6.19%	Low Rate	5.65%	5.85%	Median Rate	5.68%	5.92%	Total applied for	$29,438,306	$26,834,367	Accepted	$14,066,810	$11,591,727	Noncompetitive	$1,292,614	$1,581,583	
Both issues are dated June 22, 2000. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 21, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 21, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 500 No Official Title Given (79%); 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); WDR (NYSE) (56%); RMBS (NASDAQ) (54%); MS (NYSE) (53%); TOS (LSE) (53%); 6502 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (54%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (94%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (56%); WADDELL & REED INC (56%); RAMBUS INC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); TOSHIBA CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MERGERS (76%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



497 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Nasdaq's Japanese Cousin Off to Slow Start

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 19

 BODY:
The Japanese offshoot of Nasdaq began trading eight stocks today in a technically smooth but low-volume start to what represents the first time a stock exchange has tried to go global.
"It's going to take a bit of time to really unfold in its full form, but it's going to succeed," said Frank Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which runs the Nasdaq market in the United States. He likened the new market's opening to planting a flag on the moon. 
 Trading volume was extremely low, with only about 660,000 shares changing hands, as opposed to the hundreds of millions of shares that are routinely traded daily at Nasdaq Japan's American cousin. But the low volume had been expected because Japanese law imposes severe restrictions on how many shares small start-up companies can sell.
Daily limits on price movements in Japan may have contributed to the low volume as well. When shares are driven to extremely high prices, there are difficulties in matching buy orders and sell orders.
Another reason for the low volume today was the impending public offering of shares in the Japanese units of Morningstar, the United States investment research firm, and E*Trade, the online brokerage firm. Those stocks will list over the next couple of weeks, and there was speculation that investors who might have bought shares on the new exchange today were waiting until then.
Of the eight issues that began trading on the new exchange today, four were up, one was unchanged and three fell.
Masternet, an Internet mail service provider that transferred its shares from Jasdaq, the over-the-counter market that historically was Japan's answer to Nasdaq, provided a good example of how an inability to buy and sell might affect the market. Only 18 of its shares changed hands, but that was enough to move its share price by 300,000 yen, or about $2,830 at current exchange rates, to 1.65 million yen apiece.
Given that Nasdaq Japan has ambitions to become the market of choice for the new economy, it was ironic that shares of Sugi Pharmacy, a retail drugstore operator that went public today, were the new market's best performers and accounted for most of the volume. Sugi shares rose 2,000 yen, their limit, to 9,000 yen, with 651,000 changing hands.
While foreign brokerage firms and asset managers have commended Nasdaq Japan for its efforts to enhance disclosure and bring new companies to market, the Japanese reaction has been more tepid.
In part, the muted reaction by Japanese brokers and fund managers reflects a diminished appetite for technology-related stocks, which dominate the new exchange.
Brokers here also note that investors who bought shares that float on Mothers, a similar exchange started in December by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, have largely been disappointed. Seven of the 10 stocks listed there are currently trading below their initial public offering price.
The new market has also been dogged by some early missteps of the National Association of Securities Dealers and its joint venture partner in Nasdaq Japan, the Softbank Corporation, the Japanese Internet investment company. The partners did not give Japanese officials an early warning about their plans, which reportedly rankled some bureaucrats at the Ministry of Finance.
Some of the establishment's wariness of the new market has been reflected in recent stories by the Yomiuri Shimbun, a large conservative daily newspaper.
Its English-language paper ran a story on the front page today headlined, "Nasdaq Japan to face close scrutiny," in which it reported that the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, which polices Japan's markets, would be monitoring the new exchange from its headquarters in Tokyo, not the regional office that oversees the Osaka exchange.
The paper said the agency wanted to guard against the manipulation that can happen when there are a relatively limited number of shares and daily restraints on price movements. But Hiromitsu Mori, deputy director of the coordination and inspection division of the agency, said it also monitors the Mothers exchange from the Tokyo headquarters.
In neither its Japanese version nor its English-language version did the Yomiuri point that out.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nasdaq Japan opened yesterday, but traders at the Osaka exchange were not overwhelmed. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ-JAPAN STOCK MARKET; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (72%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ-JAPAN STOCK MARKET; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); STARTUPS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (71%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (68%); PHARMACIES (68%); ONLINE TRADING (58%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE FRANK G ZARB (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



498 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Weak Gold Prices Threaten Zimbabwe's No. 2 Export Industry

BYLINE: By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, June 19

 BODY:
Battered by the low gold prices of the last year and squeezed by a currency crisis at home, Zimbabwe's gold mines are struggling to function.
Gold, the country's biggest export after tobacco, is a crucial source of foreign currency, and the collapse of the industry would be a severe blowto an economy that is already in deep trouble. 
 Many mines in Zimbabwe are running perilously low on imported supplies like cyanide, which is used to dissolve gold from crushed rock. Some mines say that they could be forced to shut down in a matter of weeks or months.
"If the situation continues, we will become totally uneconomical, and we will have to close," said Frank Purcell, managing director of Delta Gold Zimbabwe, one of the country's largest gold producers. "It's not going to take long."
Another of the big producers, Rio Tinto Zimbabwe, acknowledged the troubles of the last several months but said none of its mines were yet on the brink. "Given the price of gold, and the current exchange rate, we are finding it difficult, but we have no planned closures," said Frank Webster, the company's director of personnel and public relations.
Hoping to exert some pressure on the government of President Robert Mugabe, the Chamber of Mines in Zimbabwe issued a stark warning this month about the state of the industry and urged action to avert the closing of the country's mines.
But with parliamentary elections just days away, and the president's party facing a credible challenge for the first time in the country's history, the ruling party, which dominates government, is focusing attention on its own survival.
Exactly what the Ministry of Mines and the Reserve Bank could do to avert a shutdown in the industry is not clear.
For months, the government has been short of money. Inflation has been as high as 70 percent, foreign currency reserves have plunged and the Zimbabwe dollar has remained artificially tied to the United States dollar, far above its true value.
The gold mines must sell their production to the Reserve Bank at prices calculated according to the official exchange rate of about $38 Zimbabwe dollars to $1. The cap on the currency has driven up the cost of materials, which must be bought at far higher rates that reflect a more realistic value for the Zimbabwe dollar.
Talk of freeing the Zimbabwe dollar to let market forces determine its value has been going on for weeks, and such a move would almost certainly lead to a sharp devaluation. So far nothing has happened.
A devaluation would help cut the cost of Zimbabwe's exports and could help stimulate the economy. But Hester Le Roux, who is a director of Gold Fields Minerals Services, a precious metals research firm in London, says that even if there is a devaluation, it will "merely be a first step, and that other steps will need to be taken."
Mr. Purcell of Delta Gold said he did not believe a devaluation was necessarily the answer.
If the president is to be believed, however, far more sweeping changes could be in store for the mining industry in Zimbabwe. In an interview published last week, Mr. Mugabe told a British newspaper that his government would soon turn its attention to the mines as part of its campaign to redistribute the country's resources to the black majority.
Considering how the country's efforts at agricultural land reform floundered before erupting in pre-election political violence this year, his words were of little comfort to the mining industry.
For now, the mining houses are just watching the situation, hoping the election on Saturday and Sunday, whatever the outcome, opens the door to a turnaround.
Already, however, the gold miners, like the tobacco farmers, say that damage has been done and that undoing it will take months if not years. In particular, most mining houses have over the last couple of months scaled back or even halted their exploration and development efforts, averting layoffs but imperiling the mines' future production.
Zimbabwe produced almost 30 million ounces of gold last year, just over 1 percent of the world total and a fraction of the nearly 450 million ounces produced by neighboring South Africa, the world's biggest producer of gold. Indeed the loss of the Zimbabwe production, ranked 16th worldwide, would hardly register on international gold markets. 
But for a poor country like Zimbabwe, which relies heavily on agriculture and mining, the effects would reverberate among the 12 million people, many of them unemployed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (90%); RIO (NYSE) (90%); RIO (LSE) (90%); RIO (ASX) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (90%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (90%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (90%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ;DELTA GOLD ZIMBABWE; RIO TINTO ZIMBABWE RIO TINTO GROUP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;DELTA GOLD ZIMBABWE; RIO TINTO ZIMBABWE

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE; ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; INDUSTRY PROFILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; MINES AND MINING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EXPORT TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TRENDS (75%); ELECTIONS (70%); CLOSINGS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); HISTORY (64%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (58%); 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E ROBERT GABRIEL MUGABE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



499 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Knight Is Right

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Some things are true even though Phil Knight, the chairman of Nike, believes them.
Mr. Knight recently made news by suddenly withdrawing a contemplated $30 million gift to the University of Oregon after the university balked at joining a coalition -- the Fair Labor Association (F.L.A.) -- that was formed by human rights groups, colleges, the U.S. government and companies such as Nike to alleviate global sweatshop conditions. Oregon opted to join an alternative group being pushed on college campuses, the Worker Rights Consortium (W.R.C.), which also plans to combat sweatshops, but refuses to cooperate with any companies, such as Nike. 
 The natural assumption is that Mr. Knight is wrong. The truth is, Nike has a shameful past when it comes to tolerating sweatshops. But on the question of how best to remedy those conditions in the future -- which Nike has now agreed to do -- Mr. Knight is dead right and Oregon wrong: The best way to create global governance -- over issues from sweatshops to the environment -- when there is no global government is to build coalitions, in which enlightened companies, consumers and social activists work together to forge their own rules and enforcement mechanisms. That's what the F.L.A. represents and it's what the W.R.C. doesn't.
We've heard plenty this year about the downsides of globalization. The question is what to do about it. The more radical protesters, such as the W.R.C., want to trash multinationals and get the World Trade Organization to set rules for workers and the environment, not just for trade. And what practical effect have the protesters had so far? Zero.
So what to do? Well, it comes down to this: Do you want a make a point or do you want to make a difference? The F.L.A. was formed to make a difference. The W.R.C. was formed to make a point.
The F.L.A. was founded four years ago, and it now includes the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, the National Council of Churches, the International Labor Rights Fund, 135 universities and major apparel companies such as Liz Claiborne, Levi Strauss, Nike, Reebok and Adidas. After long talks, this diverse group agreed on a nine-point code for any apparel factory anywhere in the world -- including rules against forced labor and child labor, as well as freedom of association, minimum wages, maximum working hours, lighting, bathrooms and safety. They also agreed on a system of independent monitoring, surprise inspections and follow-ups, which is now being tested in five developing countries.
Companies whose factories comply will be able to sew an "F.L.A." label into their clothing, and the 135 universities have agreed that their logos will go only on F.L.A.-made products. Global brands can't afford any longer to be associated with sweatshops, and the F.L.A. creates a credible system for empowering consumers to punish dirty companies and reward improving ones.
The W.R.C., by contrast, is backed by protectionist U.S. unions, such as Unite, that don't want any system that would give a stamp of approval to any production outside the U.S. That's one reason the W.R.C. won't work with companies. But that means the W.R.C. has no way of consistently monitoring factories or following up remedies, and it is only focused on clothing sold on college campuses.
It's good that there's a W.R.C. out there noisily protesting sweatshops and embarrassing companies. But the W.R.C. is not a substitute for the F.L.A., which has a comprehensive strategy for upgrading the whole apparel industry. It's a pity that some cowardly college presidents -- intimidated by a few vocal and often uninformed students -- have quit the F.L.A. in favor of the W.R.C.
"If you want to improve people's lives in the absence of a global government, you need to align the economic interests of the better global companies with the social interests of the least advantaged people," said Sam Brown, the 1960's antiwar activist, former U.S. ambassador and now director of the F.L.A. "We need to make these companies our allies, not our opponents. We won't change the world overnight. But it is foolish to dismiss the F.L.A. because it does not go far enough or fast enough. The issue is how to get from here to there, and the F.L.A. has a real strategy for harnessing U.S. consumer power to change the lives and working conditions of real people." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (95%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (95%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: FAIR LABOR ASSN NIKE INC (95%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (52%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAIR LABOR ASSN UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SWEATSHOPS SWEATSHOPS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); CHILD LABOR (72%); INSPECTIONS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CLOTHING LABELS (65%); FASHION DESIGNERS (65%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



500 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Will Have to Raise Gas Tax to Pay for Projects, Policy Group Says

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 19

 BODY:
New Jersey is going to have to raise the state gas tax by at least a nickel to pay for $3.7 billion in road and public transportation projects over the next four years, a study by a liberal policy organization predicted today.
The spending analysis commissioned by New Jersey Policy Perspective criticized two bills by state Republican legislative leaders to siphon money from general revenues while continuing to borrow heavily to pay for the projects. The legislative plan would provide about $950 million a year for the next four years to pay for roads, bridges and public transportation. Of that about $2.2 billion would be borrowed, and $1.2 billion would come from tax revenues. The remaining costs would go to repaying debts. 
 When the Transportation Trust Fund was created in 1984, it was intended to be paid entirely by a portion of the gasoline tax. But expenditures for popular projects have outrun income, particularly in recession years, and the state has increasingly become dependent on borrowing to keep the books balanced.
And because a borrowed dollar costs more than a dollar to repay, the study maintains, the state would be faced with a need to raise still more money, most likely in the form of a gas tax increase, when the debt bills fall due. The current state gas tax is 10.5 cents a gallon, the fourth lowest in the country.
Martin E. Robins, director of the Transportation Policy Institute at Rutgers University, said, "The annual interest payments on the bonds these two bills would authorize would grow within a few years to the point where debt service would consume a substantial portion of money that otherwise would go for transportation projects."
Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, said he would prefer that the Legislature adopt the one-year financing bill for the trust fund that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed this year. That would allow the Legislature to come back with a plan less dependent on debt after next year's vote for governor. After the election, discussion of taxes would presumably be less dangerous for the measure's main sponsors, the Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, and the Assembly speaker, Jack Collins.
Rae Hutton, a spokeswoman for Mr. DiFrancesco, said that while the proposed financing solution continues borrowing, it would be at a lower rate -- $650 million a year for the next four years, instead of at the current rate of $900 million. "There is no support for a gasoline tax increase" as an alternative, she said.
The bill proposed by Mr. DiFrancesco and Mr. Collins would also shift $1.2 billion of revenues from petroleum products and new car tax receipts from the general fund to the transportation fund.
The combined measure was debated today before the Assembly Transportation Committee and will be taken up again on Thursday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRANSPORTATION FUEL TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); GASOLINE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER DONALD T DIFRANCESCO (79%); JACK COLLINS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



501 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Audit of Register Office Reveals 'Severe' Errors

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
The audit was routine, but the findings were chaotic.
Ninety-seven boxes of unprocessed papers were stacked on the desks and floor of the Brooklyn Office of the City Register, which records real estate documents. Inside were piles of uncashed checks totaling around $26 million in real estate fees paid to the city. 
 The city comptroller and the Department of Finance announced the discovery yesterday after a six-month audit of the Brooklyn office.
Nick Paolucci, a spokesman for City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, called the office's problems "pretty severe," echoing the findings of the audit, which noted that the unprocessed checks were a "serious violation" of a rule that cash receipts be deposited on the same business day.
And the mistakes were costly.
The city lost nearly $294,000 in interest because the checks had not been deposited, the audit found. The audit report said that 112 checks worth $36,395 had been refused by the bank because they were more than six months old. A study of transactions found that 10 percent included errors ranging from an underpayment of $29 to an overpayment of $39.
The audit was prompted by a surge of business and not by any suspicion of wrongdoing, Mr. Paolucci said. The Office of the City Register, overseen by the Department of Finance, handled $1.1 billion in fees and taxes in the last fiscal year; each day the Brooklyn office (there is an office in each borough except Staten Island) handles 1,000 transactions and takes in $1 million.
"In this booming economy, lots of those transactions were happening, and a backlog occurred," Mr. Paolucci said.
In an unusual arrangement, the Department of Finance was informed of the findings as the audit proceeded. As a result, the audit report notes, 10 of its 12 recommendations, like assigning more staff to reduce the backlog, had already been implemented by the time the audit was released.
"The bottom line here is, serious problems were found and serious problems were promptly corrected," Mr. Paolucci said.
After the audit began in December, the city demoted two officials who supervised the agency. Joy A. Bobrow, the city registrar, was reassigned to the legal affairs division of the Department of Finance on Feb. 13, and Ronald Douglas, the deputy city registrar in charge of the Brooklyn office, was transferred to the taxpayer assistant unit, said Jim Moses, a department spokesman. Ms. Bobrow's salary was reduced to $65,107 from $70,964, and Mr. Douglas's to $47,000 from $52,376. No other action was taken against them, Mr. Moses said.
The audit also found 11 types of clerical or procedural errors, including a lack of internal controls to ensure that the department collected the revenues it should. At each step in the recording process, the audit found, a document would receive a new identifying number, thus making it almost impossible to trace a single transaction from start to finish.
Each city agency is audited once every four years. In 1997, the Office of Vital Records, which handles requests for birth and death certificates, was found to have $272,000 in undeposited checks and money orders, a similar offense, but involving a much smaller amount of money.
This audit was distinguished not just by sizable sums, but by close cooperation, officials said. Mr. Hevesi and Andrew S. Eristoff, who became finance commissioner a year ago, congratulated each other for what Mr. Eristoff called an "innovative, collaborative approach."
Mr. Paolucci said that the city was changing procedures for handling documents and payments at all the city registrar offices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In this photograph taken in December, cartons of uncashed checks were strewn around the Brooklyn Office of the City Register. (Comptroller's Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF CITY REGISTER (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF CITY REGISTER (NYC) DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); AUDITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER) NICK PAOLUCCI (91%); ANDREW S ERISTOFF (57%); RONALD DOUGLAS (56%); JOY A BOBROW (56%); ALAN G HEVESI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



502 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: A NEW ARCHBISHOP: THE MESSAGE;
Egan's Role in Outlining Church's Basic Truths

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR 

 BODY:
Although he arrived in New York with a solid reputation as a skilled administrator, Archbishop Edward M. Egan showed yesterday that he saw his new role as being a teacher to his vast flock, too, fulfilling an essential role of a priest.
"We are a people of prayer," the archbishop said in a homily at his service of installation at St. Patrick's Cathedral, attended by more than 1,000 priests and 100 bishops. "We are a people of justice. We are a people of charity." His message laid out what he considered to be foundational elements of Roman Catholic identity. 
 In describing what he meant by justice and charity, Archbishop Egan urged New York's Catholics to stand against racial and religious discrimination, to care for the poor and to oppose abortion and euthanasia. The victims of discrimination, the impoverished, "the unborn" and the elderly, he said, are all "images of God."
Being a teacher means working directly to shape the spiritual understanding of the faithful by clearly expounding church doctrine. As an expert on canon law who spent 18 years in the Vatican, Archbishop Egan is well qualified to take on that role. And in carving out what he sees as his responsibilities, the archbishop signaled that he would be the one who defined how he filled the job as the archdiocese's leader, not those who have described him as a man whose greatest talents and interests lie in management and fund-raising.
But then, he has stepped into a job so multifaceted and demanding it has never been possible to say it is just about one set of duties. On an administrative level, New York's archbishop oversees a vast network of schools, parishes and hospitals.
He also speaks from a national pulpit, amplified by intense news media attention, from which he can proclaim the views of the church on a wide variety of social, moral and economic issues. And an archbishop in New York can play a leading role in fostering good relations between Catholics and other religious groups. Both of these tasks were widely acknowledged as particular strengths of Archbishop Egan's predecessor, Cardinal John J. O'Connor.
But New York's archbishop must be conscious of the needs of his polyglot flock, a constituency that grew by one-third in the last 15 years to 2.4 million people. Even in a ceremony attended by bishops from around the nation and representatives of other faiths, Archbishop Egan spoke primarily to New York's Catholics yesterday, calling them to prayer and to a clear understanding of church teaching about the Mass and its central place in Catholic life.
In his homily, he cited a national poll, taken several years ago, that showed that many Catholics were uncertain of a basic teaching, that the bread and the wine at the Mass are changed into the body and blood of Christ. On this belief, he said, there can be "no compromise."
(Although the archbishop did not name the poll he was describing, a New York Times/CBS News poll in April 1994 found that more than 60 percent of American Catholics said "the bread and wine are symbolic reminders of Christ.")
Interestingly, Archbishop Egan began his homily with a bricks-and-mortar analogy, talking about the basilica in Rome where he was consecrated a bishop in 1985. But his point, in speaking about how that church rested on the foundations of a Christian building dating to Roman times, was to describe how a strong identity among New York's Catholics -- involving prayer, worship and adherence to the church's teachings -- would make a strong foundation for the archdiocese. In terms of his preaching style, the archbishop's use of personal experience to introduce a broader message resembled the way he structured his homily at St. Patrick's on Sunday, during the ceremony in which he was officially invested as New York's ninth archbishop.
In that message, which dealt at length with the inspirational power of Christian charity, he spoke of how the care showed by nuns toward an injured person who staggered into a church service in the South Bronx had so moved one man who saw it that he later became a priest, ordained by Archbishop Egan when he was bishop of Bridgeport, Conn.
The incident, the archbishop said, occurred while he was an auxiliary bishop in New York in the mid-1980's.
In that homily, too, Archbishop Egan struck a theme similar to his theme yesterday, saying he saw his coming to New York as joining a community that "heroically defends the child in the womb, the elderly in the nursing home, the sick and the disabled." That community, he said, would see "every human being as an image of divinity." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CHARITIES (75%); ABORTION (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: NIEBUHR, GUSTAV; EGAN, EDWARD M (BISHOP) EDWARD M EGAN (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



503 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Clears Pfizer Deal for Warner-Lambert

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Clearing the way for a merger that would make Pfizer Inc. the world's biggest pharmaceutical company, the Federal Trade Commission approved its combination with the Warner-Lambert Company yesterday on condition that the companies shed businesses in four categories.
"The commission's order preserves competition for several very important drugs that treat diseases suffered by millions of Americans annually," said Richard G. Parker, director of the agency's Bureau of Competition. 
 The $90.2 billion deal, which was announced in early February, attracted consumer as well as government opposition, but it was widely assumed that the companies would eventually propose modifications that would meet the government's objections.
"This is a defining moment for Pfizer," said William C. Steere Jr., chairman of the New York-based drug giant, after the commission's 5-to-0 vote. "Combining the two fastest-growing companies in the industry creates a global leader in the discovery of health and consumer products."
In addition to well-known household products including Listerine, Ben-Gay, Sudafed, Benadryl, Schick, Cortizone and Visine, the deal brings together Warner-Lambert's Lipitor, a cholesterol drug, and Pfizer's Viagra for male impotence.
The merger is not to be final, however, until after a period for public comment on the proposed consent agreement expires July 19.
Public Citizen, a watchdog group, complained that the remedies accepted by the commission do little for consumers. "There's really not a shred of evidence that the public is getting a price break out of the economies of scale," said Dr. Sidney Wolfe, a physician who directs the organization's health group. "This sounds great if you're a stockholder but not if you're a patient."
Shares of Pfizer, which had sales of $16.2 billion last year, closed yesterday at $46.9875, down $1.9063. Warner-Lambert, which is based in Morris Plains, N.J., and had $12.9 billion in sales, fell $1.25, to $129.75.
Under the agreement, Warner-Lambert is to end its arrangement with Forest Laboratories to co-promote the antidepressant Celexa; Pfizer will sell its head-lice treatment business to the Bayer Corporation; Warner-Lambert's assets related to the Alzheimer's drug Cognex are to be sold to the First Horizon Pharmaceutical Corporation; and Pfizer will transfer its business under development for treating solid-tumor cancers to OSI Pharmaceuticals.
Pfizer is to exchange 2.75 shares of its common stock for each share of Warner-Lambert in a transaction that would be tax free. Pfizer, which said it did not expect the sales to significantly diminish its performance, put expected savings from the merger at a minimum $1.6 billion by 2002. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (96%); PFE (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (96%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (63%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (62%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC; WARNER-LAMBERT CO; FOREST LABORATORIES; BAYER CORP; FIRST HORIZON PHARMACEUTICAL CORP; OSI PHARMACEUTICALS PFIZER INC (96%); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (94%); BAYER CORP (63%); SHIONOGI PHARMA INC (62%); OSI PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC; WARNER-LAMBERT CO; FOREST LABORATORIES; BAYER CORP; FIRST HORIZON PHARMACEUTICAL CORP; OSI PHARMACEUTICALS FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; CELEXA (DRUG); LICE; ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE; COGNEX (DRUG); CANCER PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); APPROVALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); MERGERS (89%); CANCER (89%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (66%); CHOLESTEROL (52%); 

PERSON: ;HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR JOSEPH C PAPA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



504 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN BRIEFING

 BODY:

THE DEMOCRATS
 
A ROLE FOR BRADLEY -- Democratic Party officials say Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley, his onetime rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, have worked out matters to the point that Mr. Bradley can expect a prominent speaking role at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles. Asked over the weekend if Mr. Bradley would get a "prime time" role, the convention manager, Terry McAuliffe, a close Gore ally, told CNN, "I think he will." Mr. McAuliffe also said President Clinton would have a prominent speaking role at the convention, most likely on opening night. But ultimately, Mr. McAuliffe said, "this whole convention is about Al Gore, his vision for the future, what he is going to do as president." Convention planners also expect Hillary Rodham Clinton to address the convention. (NYT) 

CLINTON IN TEXAS -- President Clinton ventured onto Gov. George W. Bush's Texas turf yesterday for the third time this year to raise money for Democratic candidates. Stopping in Houston and Austin, Mr. Clinton raised $1 million to help elect Democrats to the Senate and encourage Hispanic voters to turn out on Election Day. Mr. Clinton argued that there are sharp differences between the governor and Vice President Al Gore, who he said had the better plan to keep the national economy growing. The president also took Senate Republicans to task for stalling confirmation of some of his judicial nominees. He cited the Senate's failure to vote on Enrique Moreno, who was nominated for the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. "From humble beginnings in El Paso, he established, first of all, an utterly brilliant academic career," Mr. Clinton said. "I might add, more brilliant than that of virtually everyone who'd be voting on his confirmation." Marc Lacey (NYT)
 
THE DEMOCRATS
 
GORE ON GAS PRICES -- As gasoline prices in the Midwest escalate, so does the concern of Vice President Al Gore, who, as part of the Clinton administration, could be held politically accountable. He suggested yesterday that the big oil companies might be fixing prices. "The big oil companies' profits have gone up 500 percent in the first part of this year, just the time when these prices are going sky high in the Midwest," Mr. Gore said in an interview with ABC News. "I think that justifies a much broader investigation into possible collusion, price gouging and antitrust violations." Later in the day, he focused on the economy. At a fund-raising dinner in Washington for the Democratic National Committee, Mr. Gore said the nation's economic turnaround had been brought about by Clinton policies. Fifty-five people paid $10,000 each to join him and Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, who had endorsed Mr. Gore's rival, former Senator Bill Bradley, in the primaries. Mr. Kerrey called Mr. Gore "the most qualified person in my lifetime" to be running for president. Katharine Q. Seelye (NYT) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (62%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (62%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PRICE FIXING (69%); CARTELS (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



505 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Appeals Court Plans Fast-Paced Schedulefor Review of the Microsoft Case

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19

 BODY:
A federal appeals court stepped forcefully into the Microsoft antitrust case today, dismissing a government argument that it lacked jurisdiction and setting a fast-paced schedule for reviewing Microsoft's request that the judges block a lower-court order restricting its conduct.
Microsoft applauded the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, saying, "Obviously, we are pleased that the appeals court unanimously sided with Microsoft and rejected the government's position." 
 But it will probably prove to be a Pyrrhic victory. The last paragraph of the two-page order says that if the trial judge asks the Supreme Court to take the case directly, "this briefing schedule will be automatically suspended."
That request could come as soon as Tuesday, and as a result the government also proclaimed victory. "We are very pleased with the court's ruling that it would stay further proceedings if the district court certifies the case for direct appeal to the Supreme Court," said Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman.
The Justice Department and 19 state attorneys general are trying to send the case directly to the Supreme Court under a little-used law known as the Expediting Act. It allows the direct appeal of significant federal antitrust cases. Microsoft wants its appeal heard in the court of appeals, which has sided with the company in the past.
Moving quickly last week, before the judge could send the case to the Supreme Court, Microsoft tried to outmaneuver the government by asking the appeals court to consider its request to stay the judge's order. And the appeals court showed that it was eager to take the case by declaring that the entire court, not a three-judge panel, would hear the stay request and larger appeal.
In reaction, the government argued in a brief that the appeals court does not have jurisdiction, on several grounds -- arguments that the court dismissed today. The court set a schedule under which Microsoft and the government will have only until July 6 to file briefs on Microsoft's request to stay the court-ordered remedy, unless the schedule is suspended.
But the court order today also indicated another victory for the government in the legal skirmishes that the two sides have fought since Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson issued his order on June 7 breaking Microsoft in two and forcing the company to abide by a long list of restrictions while the breakup is carried out.
Microsoft had argued, in an appeals court brief last week, that the Expediting Act does not apply to the states' lawsuit since it applies only to federal cases.
But the Justice Department countered that since the suits were tried together, and since only single rulings and remedies were entered for the two suits, the appeals of both should be carried together to the Supreme Court.
Today the appeals court indicated that it agreed with the government. The court's order says it will suspend consideration of the appeal of the states' case, too, as soon as Judge Jackson issues the certification to the Supreme Court.
Separately, Microsoft filed with Judge Jackson a brief setting out the company's arguments against a direct appeal. High on the list of objections was the argument about the states' case, even though hours earlier the appeals court had indicated it did not accept that argument.
But Microsoft also hit on the one argument that is most likely to concern the Supreme Court justices, the need to read several thousand pages of trial record in a direct appeal. Usually, the appeals court winnows that trial record for Supreme Court review so the justices may have to read only summaries.
But Microsoft promised that "the sheer number of factual and legal issues raised by Microsoft's appeals, as well as a range of important procedural issues," make it "completely unsuitable for summary disposition."
Microsoft noted that addressing all of the issues to be raised in the appeal "would require review of the 13,466-page trial transcript and the 2,695 trial exhibits that comprise the record in these cases, a time-consuming exercise the Supreme Court would not likely be anxious to undertake."
The company also tried to argue that the case was not important enough to warrant direct review, even though in a previous brief Microsoft said the remedy imposed on the company "could have a significant adverse impact on the nation's economy."
Today Microsoft quoted the text of the Expediting Act, which said cases of "general public importance" to the "administration of justice" are eligible for direct review. The company took that language about the administration of justice literally and stated that the Microsoft appeal would not impair the government's "ongoing enforcement responsibilities."
And to the appeals court of Appeals statement last week that the case was "of exceptional importance," Microsoft said that view "makes it more important, not less, that the case proceed through intermediate appellate review."
The Justice Department may choose to file a reply to Microsoft's brief on Tuesday. But it is also possible that Judge Jackson will simply issue the certification order on Tuesday. He has made it clear for more than two months that he is eager to do that.
The Supreme Court does not have to take the appeal, in which case it would be sent back to the Court of Appeals. No one knows whether the Supreme Court will decide quickly, since it is near the end of the court's term -- or wait until its next term, which begins in October. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SUPREME COURT (US) MICROSOFT CORP (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SUPREME COURT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US); ATTORNEYS GENERAL; APPEALS COURTS APPEALS COURTS (94%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); JUDGES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



506 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: A Million Parents Lost Medicaid, Study Says

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19

 BODY:
Nearly a million low-income parents have lost Medicaid coverage and have probably become uninsured since Congress and the states began overhauling the nation's welfare programs in 1996, a consumer group said in a new study today.
The group, Families USA, said the number of low-income parents enrolled in Medicaid in 15 states had declined by 945,880, or 27 percent -- to 2,557,673 in December 1999, from 3,503,553 in January 1996. 
 Those states are home to 70 percent of the uninsured adults who are under the age of 65 and have incomes less than twice the poverty level, or under $28,300 for a family of three.
When it passed a landmark welfare law in 1996, Congress tried to guarantee continuation of Medicaid coverage for people losing cash assistance. But many states did not carry out the requirements of the law, and until recently federal officials said they were unaware of any serious problems.
Under federal law, people leaving welfare are automatically entitled to health insurance under Medicaid for six months to a year, but states have not always provided this coverage.
Families USA did not trace individual families who left welfare, but other studies have found that adults in such families typically take low-paying jobs that do not offer health benefits. Even if parents are offered insurance by employers, they are often unable to pay the premiums.
Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, said: "Our study shows that hundreds of thousands of low-wage working parents were cast adrift without health insurance when they did the right thing and found jobs. Most parents moving from welfare to work are in jobs that provide no health coverage, but they are losing their Medicaid lifeline."
The study said that Medicaid enrollment of parents had dropped by 155,846, or 19 percent, in California; by 123,630, or 25 percent, in New York; by 95,854, or 42 percent, in Ohio; and by 106,012, or 46 percent, in Texas.
Mr. Pollack said that New York and Ohio had liberalized eligibility standards for Medicaid in the last year so more parents would qualify.
Economists said the number of people on welfare and Medicaid might be expected to decline in a booming economy, which has reduced the unemployment rate to the lowest level in three decades.
But in an interview, Mr. Pollack said: "If Medicaid enrollment declines while the number of uninsured grows, there is obviously a problem. Reductions in Medicaid enrollment are, in fact, fueling an increase in the number of people who are uninsured."
Melissa T. Skolfield, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services, said: "The report by Families USA shows that there is a lot of state-to-state variation. States can and should do more to expand Medicaid coverage for people leaving welfare."
Until recently, federal officials did not acknowledge that the 1996 welfare law was contributing to an increase in the uninsured. In May 1999,Ms. Skolfield said it was "too early to know for sure if there is a cause-and-effect relationship."
Researchers say hundreds of thousands of children also lost Medicaid when their families lost welfare benefits. But the decline in children's insurance coverage has been offset, to some extent, by the creation of federal and state health programs specifically for children.
Mr. Pollack said most states imposed strict limits on the income that a parent could earn and still qualify for Medicaid. In 32 states, he said, parents who work full time at the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour are considered to have too much income to qualify for Medicaid.
"In Louisiana, Virginia and Texas," Mr. Pollack said, "parents working at the minimum wage are disqualified from Medicaid if they work more than 12, 17 and 18 hours a week, respectively."
In April, the Clinton administration ordered states to restore Medicaid benefits to families who had been improperly deprived of such coverage. State officials say they have begun to comply.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE: Losing Welfare, Losing Medicaid"
A new study finds that since the overhaul of welfare in 1996, the number of parents receiving Medicaid has dropped sharply in the 15 states with the highest number of low-income adults. Hundreds of thousands of children also lost Medicaid when their families lost welfare benefits, but this loss of coverage has been partly offset by new federal and state health programs for children.
 
PARENTS ON MEDICAID, JAN. 1996--DEC. 19996
 
Georgia
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...6
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-50
NUMBER...64,931
 
Texas
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...2
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-46
NUMBER...106,012
 
Ohio*
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...8
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-42
NUMBER...95,854
 
Florida
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...4
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-37
NUMBER...82,682
 
Virginia
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...13
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-34
NUMBER...20,000
 
Louisiana*
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...14
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-31
NUMBER...19,088
 
New Jersey*
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...12
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-30
NUMBER...38,092
 
North Carolina
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...10
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-30
NUMBER...32,549
 
Michigan
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...11
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-25
NUMBER...51,258
 
New York
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...3
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-25
NUMBER...123,630
 
Pennsylvania
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...9
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-23
NUMBER...75,975
 
Arizona
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...7
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-20
NUMBER...12,202
 
California
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...1
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-19
NUMBER...155,846
 
Illinois
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...5
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-19
NUMBER...55,459
 
Tennessee
RANK OF STATE BY NUMBER OF LOW-INCOME ADULTS...15
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-11
NUMBER...12,302
 
TOTAL, 15 STATES
PERCENTAGE CHANGE...-27
NUMBER...-945,880
 
*State did not provide Dec. 1999 data; for Louisiana, most recent figure is for July 1999; for New Jersey and Ohio, figure is for October 1999.
 
(Source: Families USA, from state Medicaid agency data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAMILIES USA MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES USA MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; STATES (US); WELFARE (US); HEALTH INSURANCE; AGED MEDICAID (93%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PARENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT RONALD F POLLACK (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



507 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: A NEW ENTERTAINMENT GIANT: THE MERGER;
FRENCH COMPANY AGREES TO A DEAL TO BUY SEAGRAM

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
The Seagram Company, the spirits and entertainment company that includes such legendary names as Absolut vodka, Universal Studios and Polygram Records, is expected to announce today that it has agreed to be acquired for about $34 billion in stock by Vivendi S.A., a French water utility that is transforming itself into a telecommunications and entertainment giant.
The sale would amount to one of the largest media deals ever and would end the Bronfman family's control over Seagram, which Samuel Bronfman took over in 1928. It has remained one of the nation's most powerful liquor companies even as Edgar Bronfman Jr., a grandson of Samuel Bronfman, began remaking the company into a media player in 1995, by first acquiring MCA, parent of Universal Pictures, which produced such American icons as "E.T." and "The Sting." 
 One of the nation's six major film studios, Universal also owns a television production company, theme parks and a music business. In 1998, Mr. Bronfman expanded Seagram's holdings by buying Polygram, making Seagram the nation's largest record company in terms of sales. That purchase reflected Mr. Bronfman's conviction that music was a growth business.
The new company will be called Vivendi Universal and be based in Paris. Mr. Bronfman will become vice chairman, with the music and Internet businesses reporting to him. Vivendi executives do not see the liquor business as part of the company's future and plan to sell all of it, or at least a stake in it.
Vivendi hopes to leverage Seagram's library of films and music by distributing it over its mobile telephone network in France, as well as through its ambitious pan-European Internet portal, called Vizzavi, and its pay television company, Canal Plus; Vivendi owns 49 percent of Canal and now plans to buy it outright.
The proposed deal is a bet by both Vivendi and Seagram that combining popular content with a powerful distribution system, especially the next generation of wireless Internet services in Europe, can create a company worth more combined than the value of its parts.
Boards of Vivendi and Canal Plus confirmed the deal yesterday; a Seagram spokeswoman declined to comment, but several people close to the Seagram board said that it, too, had approved the deal.
There were, however, some skeptics yesterday who felt that Vivendi was unlikely to cull great benefits from merging. One analyst who requested anonymity said that while Canal Plus was getting use of the Universal Pictures film library to fill its programming needs and Vivendi believed it could download music digitally via cell phones, "maybe you are accelerating that synergy, but I think it is a small niche."
The merger, which also needs approval from the European Union, is the latest in a series of aggressive media mergers that have seen the entertainment world consolidate into a handful of major entities. The first wave, which began in the 1980's, included mergers of movie and television production with companies that could distribute their programs on hardware or cable or TV -- Sony and Columbia; Time and Warner; Viacom and Paramount, and then CBS; and the Walt Disney Company and Capital Cities/ABC. Seagram's purchase of MCA was unusual because Seagram was not a media company, though it believed it brought international marketing expertise to MCA.
But despite the high degree of publicity surrounding most media deals, it has generally taken far longer for the stock of merged companies to benefit than the initial frenzied corporate sales pitch would have indicated. For example, Time Warner's stock lagged the Standard & Poor's 500 index for years after its 1989 merger until it suddenly took off two years ago. Stock in Walt Disney still trails the S.& P. 500 more than four years after it bought ABC. Viacom's stock, too, has often trailed the index since 1994, though it has outperformed the index recently and its stock has benefited from the CBS deal. Most recently, Seagram bought Polygram, a major record company. But Seagram, too, had underperformed the market until the recent takeover announcement.
If it has been tough to realize any immediate benefits from combining, it may be in part because "the merged companies have not focused so much on cost savings as potential revenue growth to be gained from combining the entities," said David Londoner, a media analyst at ABN Amro.
In the second wave of deals, including AOL's pending purchase of Time-Warner, technology companies have begun seeking to own "content" providers like major film companies.
Vivendi's deal fits more directly in that category. Somewhat like Seagram under the control of Mr. Bronfman, Vivendi has been transformed under the leadership of Jean-Marie Messier, the French company's chairman, into a holding company of sorts with a hodgepodge of old- and new-economy businesses.
While Vivendi very much remains a water distribution, waste management and construction company -- more than half of its $40 billion in revenue come from those divisions -- Mr. Messier has been steadily building an impressive stable of telecommunication and entertainment properties. Vivendi now owns a 24.5 percent stake in the satellite television business British Sky Broadcasting, controlled by the News Corporation. It owns 59 percent of Cegetel, which operates SFR, the second-largest wireless telephone network in France. Mr. Messier, 43, also acquired Havas, the publishing and advertising company and last year increased Vivendi's stake in Canal Plus by 15 percentage points, to 49 percent.
Perhaps Mr. Messier's most important deal to date was a negotiating move in February to create an Internet portal with Vodafone Airtouch, the world's largest wireless telephone operator. That deal sealed the fate of Vodafone's record $183 billion hostile bid for Mannesmann and gave Mr. Messier an important ally in expanding his wireless operations, which so far remain mostly in France.
Initially the combined companies would have revenue of $65 billion, though the sale of the liquor business and Vivendi's water business, which includes U.S. Filter, would reduce the company to a purer media business.
The sale, for $72.76 a share, is a 44 percent premium over Seagram's stock price before news of the deal began to circulate last Tuesday. But Vivendi stock, which has soared over the last year, began falling from its high of $136 in March and has continued to fall since news of the deal, closing yesterday at $92.25. The terms of the deal will vary somewhat, depending on how Vivendi's stock continues to perform.
Over the last seven days, rumors of the takeover pushed Seagram stock to $63.75 from $50.625, a 26.4 percent gain, increasing the family's stake by $1.4 billion, to about $6.8 billion.
Vivendi has certain advantages compared with the players in some of the earlier deals. The sale is for stock, so that it does not have to take on additional debt. And a sale of the liquor interests, which could generate more than $7 billion according to several analysts, including Ed Hatch of SG Cowen, would wipe out Seagram's existing debt.
Vivendi's hopes of using Seagram's huge music operations to provide content for its new wireless Internet business have been questioned, partly because of doubts about the record industry's ability to maintain control over the revenue from distribution of music. There is fear that consumers can use the Internet to circumvent traditional distribution, and get their music free.
Mr. Messier is betting that the industry will find a new revenue model for selling music over the Internet and will start an industry-wide secure distribution effort.
Mr. Messier's ambition to put Seagram's entertainment companies under the Vivendi umbrella is part of his effort to deliver content over his various media outlets and most importantly over his wireless network and through Vizzavi. In Europe, where mobile telephones and wireless access devices have penetrated the market much more than in the United States, Mr. Messier is betting that the next generation of mobile devices will not only act as telephones or personal organizers, but also effectively work as portable music players and televisions.
There was mixed guessing yesterday in Hollywood about Mr. Bronfman's role, with some saying that Mr. Bronfman would be left to run the record business because he had done a good job with Seagram's music operation and Mr. Messier had little interest in that area. Others speculated that Mr. Bronfman's tenure was only a matter of time, because he was unlikely to enjoy working for anyone and that a sticking point in initial talks had been Mr. Messier's unwillingness to assure him a major operating role.
What worries analysts is that Vivendi stock has more than tripled since the beginning of 1998 until March 10, when it peaked at $136.50. As one industry executive, who insisted on anonymity, put it: "For Vivendi, it is simply doing a deal with its inflated stock. That is, unless the stock continues to fall."
As part of the deal, Vivendi will buy the remaining 51 percent of Canal Plus that it does not already own for more than $12 billion, according to executives close to the talks. Vivendi will pay Canal Plus shareholders two of its own shares for each share of Canal Plus, the executives said.
To satisfy a French law that restricts any one company from owning more than 49 percent of a French television broadcaster, Vivendi is expected to spin off the Canal Plus French broadcasting unit into a separate company.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-Marie Messier, chief executive of Vivendi, has made it into a holding company with entertainment and telecommunications interests. (Pierre Le Segretain/Sygma)(pg. C12)
 
Chart: "Focusing on Entertainment"
By buying Seagram, Vivendi hopes to fill the gaps in its media and entertainment portfolio to better compete with other global media giants.
 
SEAGRAM
 
DRINKS
1999 REVENUE*: $4.8 billion
Has leading spirits brands like Chivas Regal, Crown Royal and Absolut among dozens of others; sells ginger ale and seltzer. Accounted for nearly 13 percent of the spirits market in the U.S. last year.
 
MUSIC
1999 REVENUE*: $6.3 billion
The world's largest music company by sales with labels like Polygram, A&M, Interscope, Geffen, Island and Motown. Has the largest catalog and largest collection of classical music. Has 27 percent of the U.S. market by all albums sold.
 
MOVIES AND RECREATION
1999 REVENUE*: $4.2 billion
Universal Studios has had recent hits with The Mummy, Shakespeare in Love and Erin Brockovich. This year, through May 21, it had 14 percent of box-office receipts, the second-largest share. Produces television shows like Law and Order and The Jerry Springer Show and runs four major theme parks.
 
CANAL PLUS
 
PAY TELEVISION
1999 REVENUE+: $3.3 billion
The leading European pay television provider, with nearly 14 million subscribers, more than half outside France. Also involved in production and distribution of television, film and multimedia.
 
VIVENDI
 
TELEPHONE
1999 REVENUE: $4.1 billion
Subsidiary Cegetel has a 15 percent share of the French telecommunication market, driven by growth in mobile phones and data traffic.
 
PUBLISHING
1999 REVENUE+: $3.5 billion
Havas is a leading educational and reference publisher in Europe, generating 40 percent of its sales outside France.
 
WATER
1999 REVENUE+: $10.7 billion
Serves more than 100 million people in 100 countries with water distribution and waste treatment systems. Buying U.S. Filter helped increase sales outside France to nearly 50 percent.
 
CONSTRUCTION
1999 REVENUE+: $8.9 billion
Works on major building and infrastructure projects; builds and maintains roads, bridges and tunnels; is the second-largest parking service company in Europe.
 
OTHER
1999 REVENUE+: $13.5 billion
Among many other businesses, Vivendi is world's third-largest waste-management company; Europe's leading private mass-transit operator; a real estate developer and manager; and producer of electric power in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Maryland.
 
*For fiscal year ending June 30, 1999.
+For fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 1999.
 
(Sources: company reports; Impact, a division of M. Shanken Communications; Soundscan via Billboard; Hollywood Reporter)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (94%); VIV (BIT) (94%); AN (PAR) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (59%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: SEAGRAM CO; VIVENDI SA; VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA VIVENDI (94%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (93%); CANAL+ SA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEAGRAM CO; VIVENDI SA; VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (59%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (72%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (72%); LIBRARIES (72%); INTERNET AUDIO (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); 

PERSON: BRONFMAN, EDGAR JR; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



508 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 4; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Covent Garden Rescued, American Is Going Home

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

 BODY:
Michael Kaiser, the American theater manager who helped rescue London's Royal Opera House from the financial crisis and internal feuding that plagued its recent $360 million redevelopment, announced yesterday that he would step down at the end of the 2000-2001 season after just 18 months as chief executive of the Covent Garden complex.
Mr. Kaiser, a former executive director of American Ballet Theater, said in a statement that the decision had been "the most profoundly difficult" of his career. "But, for personal reasons, it is time for me to return to my home" in New York, he said. Mr. Kaiser, who is 47, said he was announcing his intention now to allow time for an orderly transition. 
 Although he had no fixed-term contract, he predicted in an interview early last year that he would need three to five years to have the Royal Opera House operating without financial restraints. He also expressed excitement over the challenge of bringing order to a legendary theater that had known three board chairmen and three directors in as many years, even pointing to a newspaper headline that greeted him his first day at work: "Chaos Reigns as Kaiser Enters Opera House."
By the time Covent Garden reopened last December after a 30-month makeover, Mr. Kaiser had virtually eliminated the budget deficit and created a permanent endowment fund. He also had done much to revive morale in both the Royal Ballet and the orchestra and chorus of the opera house after the tabloid-pleasing scandals that preceded him.
After a yearlong honeymoon with the British press, however, Mr. Kaiser was criticized for pricing seats beyond the reach of many opera lovers and for allowing an independent producer to operate the house during the off-season months of July and August. He also faced embarrassing teething problems with a new computerized stage that forced cancellation of one entire opera production and resulted in several breakdowns during early performances.
Nonetheless, the consensus was that, having previously restored financial health to the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and to American Ballet Theater, he had once again lived up to the nickname of Mr. Turnaround.
Further, with Anthony Pappano to succeed Bernard Haitink as music director in 2002 and Ross Stretton to succeed Sir Athony Dowell as director of the Royal Ballet next year, an entirely new team seemed to be in place. The first press reports this weekend that Mr. Kaiser was planning to leave Covent Garden therefore came as a surprise.
Mr. Kaiser could not be reached for comment beyond his formal statement today.
In a separate statement, Sir Colin Southgate, the Royal Opera House's board chairman, praised Mr. Kaiser's "countless" achievements at Covent Garden. "He has approached this enormously challenging job with unrelenting energy, commitment and determination," the chairman said. "The Royal Opera House is now on a very sure footing both financially and artistically and we owe him a huge debt of gratitude." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday in the arts pages about the resignation of Michael Kaiser as chief executive of the Covent Garden complex in London, effective at the end of the 2000-2001 season, misstated how long he will have served in the post. It will be 30 months, not 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL OPERA HOUSE (LONDON) ROYAL OPERA HOUSE COVENT GARDEN LTD (84%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (57%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL OPERA HOUSE (LONDON) AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (57%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS THEATER (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); BALLET (89%); OPERA (89%); DANCE (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MUSIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); SCANDALS (69%); ENDOWMENTS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; KAISER, MICHAEL MICHAEL KAISER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000



509 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: THE BOSS;
I Was a Teenage Success
<B YL>By DAVID NELMS; Written with Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I grew up in St. Petersburg, Fla. I started my own company, Cut and Bag Lawn Service, during junior high school. I made $6 to $8 a lawn, and on a good day, I could mow two to three lawns an hour. I paid friends $5 an hour to help me, way above minimum wage. We built up to about 50 lawns a week. My mother was upset when she figured out I made more per hour than she did. She had a master's degree and ran the county's reading program.
During high school, I was president of the National Honor Society, the scuba club and the science club, and I became an Eagle Scout. I also ran track and cross-country. 
 For two years in high school, I was in Junior Achievement, a national, nonprofit organization that helps kids understand free enterprise by having them set up a company. A group of us set up a mutual fund company, and a regional brokerage firm sponsored us. We'd meet at their offices once a week, and they'd teach us how to research stocks. Then we'd vote on which ones to buy. The year I was president of the J.A. company, I went to Indiana to compete for National President of the Year. I could have won a $10,000 scholarship. Unfortunately, I missed a trick question that defined G.N.P. as gross national profit rather than gross national product.
I sold my lawn business prior to starting engineering school at the University of Florida, and I wanted to invest the money. After reading a book titled "How I Turned $1,000 Into $3,000,000 in Real Estate in My Spare Time," I bought this big, old rambling house that had been converted into seven apartments. My tenants were surprised to have an 18-year-old landlord. I also bought another apartment building and three rental houses.
Altogether, I managed and maintained about 50 rental units. I was pretty busy. I paid for much of my undergraduate degree and my Harvard M.B.A. with my real estate profits.
My wife-to-be and I started dating at age 14. We were both voted Teens of the Month, and our pictures appeared together in The St. Petersburg Times. We got married in college, and our first baby was born the night before my first final at Harvard Business School. When I walked into the exam, everyone clapped because no one expected me to show up.
I have a 21-foot boat named Discover (for Discover Card) that I use for water skiing in the lakes around Chicago. I also keep a fishing boat on a small, private island I own near the Florida Panhandle. There's an Indian burial ground on the island, and I've been working to stave off the erosion from the storms of the last 10 years. I've also been working with a couple of Florida colleges to research and preserve Indian artifacts. A Florida newspaper once ran an article saying that a pirate had buried treasure on the island, and included a map. Shortly afterward we found holes all over the island, dug by people looking for the treasure. We've used a metal detector, though, and have never found any treasure.
I've always been interested in technology. In junior high I took some courses at a local science center that had a donated mainframe computer. I'd write programs to calculate how high my model rockets could fly. I've automated my current house with four networked PC's, and our lights are all computer-controlled. Dealing with networking problems at home has made me appreciate our LAN problems at work.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: DAVID NELMS -- President and chief operating officer, Discover Financial Services (Marc PoKempner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES MY OWN CO (91%); JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (74%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (57%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (57%); JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (74%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (57%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (57%); JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); REAL ESTATE (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); WATER SPORTS (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WATERSKIING (70%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SCUBA DIVING (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (57%); 

PERSON: OLSEN, PATRICIA; NELMS, DAVID DAVID W NELMS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



510 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: Out to Pasture, Greener Pasture;
Older Workers Are Thriving In Tight Job Market

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY BREWER 

 BODY:
Older employees don't work hard. They don't have the stamina of their younger colleagues. They are overpaid and marking time before they pack up for a life of golf or shuffleboard in Florida.
Such are the misperceptions that vex people like Hank Merrill. Two years ago, at age 58, Mr. Merrill lost his job as a sales manager with Bank of America when the company was acquired by NationsBank. Though he had more than enough money to retire, he wanted to keep working. But he had no illusions about the job search that lay ahead. "I knew people are skeptical of hiring someone over 50," Mr. Merrill said. "People assume you don't have drive and energy." One employer who rejected him essentially questioned his work ethic, he said. 
 But at least one executive recruiter saw gold where others saw gray. Joel Harrison, a managing partner with the recruiting firm of DAK Associates in Conshohocken, Pa., said he was impressed with Mr. Merrill's business connections and high energy. "I thought that this guy would outperform people 10 and 15 years younger than him," Mr. Harrison said.
He was right. Since DAK placed him as a West Coast regional vice president at Nuveen Investments, the Chicago-based financial services wholesaler, Mr. Merrill has become the company's top sales representative in the country. And all his colleagues are at least 20 years younger.
"Hank has tons of credibility," said his boss, Michael Forstl, 38, a managing director at Nuveen headquarters. "If you have been in the business that long, you develop fantastic relationships in a world that is very small."
The rejuvenation of Mr. Merrill's career holds a lesson for employers in today's tight job market: Older folks can be worth the extra money you have to pay them. They bring years of experience and connections to the table, and they often surprise their new bosses by showing nearly as much get-up-and-go as their younger colleagues.
Plus, they have demographics on their side. According to the Census Bureau, the number of 20-to-34-year-olds in the United States has declined by 6 million the last decade while the number of people over 50 has increased by 12 million. In the next decade, the census says, the number of people over 50 will increase by 21 million more, while the number of 20-to-34-year olds will increase by only 4 million. "There has simply been a shrinkage of available young workers and an increase in older workers," said Ken Dychtwald, a psychologist and author of "Age Power: How the 21st Century Will Be Ruled by the New Old" (Tarcher/Putnam, 1999).
Moreover, he said, as Americans lead longer and healthier lives, people are beginning to ask this fundamental question: What is old?
An increasing number of companies are adjusting to the changing dynamics of the job market by dipping deeper into the over-50 pool of talent. DAK, a 10-person firm that specializes in recruiting managers for financial services companies like New York Life, Salomon Brothers Asset Management and J & W Seligman, says the proportion of people it places who are in that age group has soared to 20 percent today from just 5 percent a decade ago.
"This is a robust part of our business," said Daniel A. Kreuter, the president and founder of DAK. "It expands our inventory."
Employer interest in older employees is particularly sharp in the financial services industry because people over 50 control two-thirds of the money invested in the stock market and like dealing with people in their own age group, Dr. Dychtwald said. "The investment business will increasingly demand people who are experienced and responsible and have a long track record," he said.
Maybe so, but that does not mean that those same people won't have to fight stereotypes, as even their advocates acknowledge. "There's been a mindset that wholesaling is a young person's game, that only 25-to-35-year-olds would want to sleep in hotels four nights a week and work 75 hours a week," Mr. Kreuter said. "Then when they burn out at 40, you get the new crop in."
Mr. Merrill seems determined to debunk the stereotypes. He travels four or five days a week, meeting with up to five clients a day. He routinely is up at 5:30 a.m. and usually runs five miles before work. He competes in triathlons, has run in marathons and rides his mountain bike about 2,500 miles a year.
Mr. Merrill's "sheer stamina" makes him effective, according to Mr. Forstl. "Success in this business comes from sweat, from getting in front of as many brokers as possible," he said.
Older workers in other industries are thriving, too. Some, like Hershel Sarbin, 75, tried retirement and didn't like it. When they seek to return to the world of work, they often find a welcome mat waiting.
Mr. Sarbin has actually retired twice, the first time in 1984 when he was 59 and left his job as senior vice president at the Ziff Corporation in New York to dabble in teaching and consulting work. "I felt instantly restless," he said. "I missed not being engaged in critical business issues. I missed the phone calls. I missed the action."
So, when a consulting client, Cowles Media, offered him the position of chief executive in 1990, he grabbed it. At age 65, Mr. Sarbin headed a turnaround effort in which Cowles acquired or started a host of magazines and newsletters and developed several Internet properties. Within three years, the publishing company's revenue shot up 300 percent.
In 1995, Mr. Sarbin tried retirement again. Again, he did some consulting work; again, he felt a void in his life. So, in 1998, he signed on as senior director with another consulting client, the Peppers & Rogers Group, a marketing consulting firm in Stamford, Conn. The firm was looking to develop online and print publishing properties and saw Mr. Sarbin, who had more than 30 years of media experience, as the right candidate. Mr. Sarbin now heads a 25-person division that produces a print and online newsletter and a magazine. Next month, he is scheduled to start an information service that provides verbatim extracts online of marketing-related books and articles.
Oh, and he gives up to 15 speeches a year on marketing topics.
"It's not often that 75-year-old men are invited to sit down and talk with 25-year-old dot-com experts and strategize about where the market is going," Mr. Sarbin said. "I don't have to seek them out, they come to me. Why would I ever want to retire?"
If he and others can refute the old-codger image with their energy, they might find it harder to overcome potential employers' reluctance to pay them big salaries. Older wholesalers in the financial services trade -- basically, the people who sell financial products to stockbrokers and financial advisers -- can earn as much as $500,000 a year, while sellers under 30 may earn less than $100,000. "Wholesalers like me with a proven track record are too expensive," said Robert Meitzer, 53, who was recruited by DAK to work at the Allmerica Financial Corporation in Worcester, Mass., where he is now a senior vice president and a top seller.
Like Mr. Merrill and Mr. Sarbin, Mr. Meitzer has more than 30 years of experience in his industry. Like them, he could afford to retire but loves working. And like them, he is a case study in the value that old-timers can give to a company. Aside from the $340 million in business he brought Allmerica last year, Mr. Meitzer acts as a mentor to younger sellers, a contribution that can pay large, if hard-to-measure, dividends.
Just ask Oliver Tutt, 30, a fellow sales representative at Allmerica who traveled frequently with Mr. Meitzer for three years and eagerly soaked up the older man's insights. "You face so much rejection in this business, from brokers mistreating you to them just forgetting about your appointments, that it's tough to keep your sanity," Mr. Tutt said. "Bob taught me to value myself and have self-confidence and chalk bad meetings up to experience."
Mr. Meitzer says the most important lesson he can teach the younger generation -- many of whom have never gone through a recession -- is to take the long view of markets. "I remember the bear market of 1971 to 1974 and learned that it's important to be diversified across stocks," he said. "I was able to see the current market's volatility before it happened. I saw that the bubble of the late 1990's was going to burst."
Granted, some older people do fit the stereotypes associated with them, and employers must evaluate job candidates carefully. "There are certain things we look for," Mr. Kreuter of DAK said. "People can get burnt out or cynical, and maybe not be open to new strategies or ideas" -- or to the latest Internet technology.
That goes for Mr. Merrill, the Nuveen employee who in most ways is a star performer. He has had "a hard time understanding our computer system," said Mr. Forstl, his boss, and relies on his sales assistant to gather information from the company's database.
Mr. Merrill cheerfully acknowledges his shortcoming. "We have a system here that they like us to use, but I don't like it and don't use it," he said. "I have my own system."
But such drawbacks are relatively minor, Mr. Kreuter said. "Good people over 50 have wisdom and experience, and that's what matters most," he said. "Gray hair counts for something."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Retirement? They said no. Hank Merrill, left, lost a job at 58 but now, at 60, has become the top sales representative in the nation for Nuveen Investments. Hershel Sarbin, 75, below, retired twice but didn't like it. He is senior director at Peppers & Rogers, a marketing consulting firm. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times); (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Not Ready for Retirement
After a long decline in the proportion of older Americans who work, more of them have taken full-time jobs in the last few years as the labor market has tightened. At the same time, employers have discovered that experience and connections are worth paying for.
 
Graph shows percentage of Americans 55 and older working full time from 1990-2000. (Source: RFA Dismal Sciences)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Elder Traits"
According to Ken Dychtwald, a psychologist and author of Age Power: How the 21st Century Will Be Ruled by the New Old (Tarcher/Putnam, 1999), these are some of the work-related characteristics found among Americans 55 and older.
 
STRENGTHS
Experienced
Stable
Hard working
Loyal
Well connected
Trustworthy
Mature
 
WEAKNESESS
Set in their ways
Uncomfortable with change
Technophobic
Fearful of failure
Unfamiliar with youth culture
Burned out
 
VALUES
Duty
Law and order
Patience
Expertise
Team play
(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (72%); BAC (LSE) (72%); 8648 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU BANK OF AMERICA CORP (72%); NUVEEN INVESTMENTS INC (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; OLDER WORKERS; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES FORCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); CENSUS (69%); ETHICS (68%); 

PERSON: BREWER, GEOFFREY; MERRILL, HANK; SARBIN, HERSHEL HANK MERRILL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



511 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Perform Highest In Ranking of World Health

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS 

 BODY:
The World Health Organization issued figures yesterday that rank health care systems around the world for the first time. They indicate that European health systems are generally performing best and that the United States is lagging behind, largely because of inequal distribution of health care services.
The rankings are contained in the World Health Report 2000. The report measured not just overall spending on health but also how health care was distributed among different groups in each of the 191 nations that are members of the World Health Organization. The countries were judged according to five health-care categories that W.H.O surveys found to be most important to the people in various nations. 
 Until now, argument over how well health systems and policies are working has been based on anecdotes and fractional bits of data, said Dr. Jeffrey Koplan, director of the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He said the report was the first attempt to put the arguments on a factual footing.
According to the report, the five top nations for health care were France, Italy, San Marino, Andorra and Malta.
One surprise in the findings, said Dr. David Evans of the W.H.O.'s Global Program on Evidence for Health Policy, was the good rankings for southern European countries such as Italy and Spain.
"People in those countries don't believe their health systems are doing very well," he said.
Oman ranked No. 8, a surprise because its health care system was in a shambles in the 1970's, with very high infant mortality, and because it has a relatively small budget for health. Its spending per capita on health is one-ninth of that of the United States, for example.
Dr. Christopher J. L. Murray, an international health economist from the Harvard School of Public Health, who is one of two leaders of the project, said Oman demonstrates that great changes in a country's health can be produced in a short period of time.
Another surprise was China's ranking of No. 144. A little more than a decade ago, China had a public health care system, but it has collapsed, and now people there pay for virtually all their care out of pocket. It was ranked No. 188 in fairness of financing.
The United States outspends the world and ranks near the top in average health measures, but fails to deliver good health care to a large proportion of its population and distributes the cost relatively unfairly, according to the report's measures, leaving it at number 37 in the rankings.
Using the measure "health life expectancy" -- that is, life expectancy minus years of sickness and disability, there are counties in the United States where Native American children at birth can look forward to only about 50 years of health life on average, while some Asian minorities in suburban New York can expect more than 90 years of healthy life, Dr. Murray said.
The report demonstrates, Dr. Murray said, "that no one model is best, but the numbers will give us the means over time to test which innovation in health systems work best and which are failing."
The new rating system bases national scores on five measures, and in producing a ranking takes into account the financial resources it has available.
The five measures used are: overall level of health or life expectancy; health fairness or life expectancy as measured across various populations within a country; responsiveness or how well people rated performance of their health care system; fairness in responsiveness among different groups in the same country; and fairness in financing among different groups, which looked at what proportion of income is devoted to health care.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); ANDORRA (58%); SAN MARINO (58%); MALTA (58%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (96%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (96%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); ANDORRA (58%); SAN MARINO (58%); MALTA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (92%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (57%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



512 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Vail Journal;
Proposing a Change of View in Progress's Name

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: VAIL, Colo., June 20

 BODY:
The view from The Lodge at Lions head is to die for.
Gore Creek babbles along noisily, just beyond soaring pine trees that seem to reach halfway up the mountains in the distance. 
 "You can even see the ski slopes," said Marilyn Dyer, owner of Unit 1 and president of the Lodge homeowners association, who splits the year between here and Denver.
But not all is as peaceful and serene as it appears outside the back windows of Ms. Dyer's stylish three-bedroom, three-bath condominium, which she has owned for 14 years. The Lodge, built in 1978, is smack in the middle of a proposed major development project that town officials argue is critical for Vail's continued economic stability. To complete the most ambitious of several options, town officials want to tear down the four-level Lodge building and move all the residents, Ms. Dyer and 11 other unit owners, to a nearby site, where the town would construct a new building for them.
"On a scale of 1 to 10, this would be close to a 10," Mayor Ludwig Kurtz said today, assessing the town's need to gain access to the Lodge site. "Specifically because of the competition we are facing within the state and outside the state, not only in the ski business but also in the leisure and lifestyle business, we need to look at some pretty bold strokes."
For Vail and many other mountain resort towns in the West, these are challenging times because of a booming national economy that keeps them busy year round, with skiers in winter and hikers in summer. To attract the growing number of families with vacation money to burn, they are now engaged in a mighty competition, in which amenities often mean the difference between winning and losing billions in leisure dollars.
Vail opened its ski resort in the early 1960's, making it one of the first Colorado areas to win acclaim as a world-class resort. But others, like Aspen, Telluride and Winter Park caught up fast. With unusually warm winters in recent years shortening the ski season, the competition has intensified. This season, skier visits to Colorado's 26 resorts dropped 4.5 percent, making it the second consecutive season in which fewer lift tickets were sold than the year before.
Vail was a rare exception, with a 2.48 percent increase over the 1998-1999 ski season. But that was hardly enough for town officials to abandon their "Vail Renaissance" master plan to re-energize the resort, part of which includes building a second indoor skating rink, a cultural center, a conference center, office and retail space -- all wrapped around a small lake and plaza that would serve as a community gathering place.
And so a band of architects set out to fulfill the town's dreams.
The trouble for Ms. Dyer and her 11 neighbors was that the most lavish option meant tearing down the Lodge at Lionshead and moving its inhabitants, at no cost to them, a proposal that has not set well with the residents. Adding insult to injury, the town council had considered using an ordinance that would have allowed it to take control of the Lodge by declaring it "blighted," a tactic Mayor Kurtz now says is unlikely.
Still, as Ms. Dyer said today, she feels as if the homeowners have been strong-armed by the town, and by extension, Vail Resorts, the company that operates the ski slopes.
"How would you feel?" she asked, with a sweep of her arm taking in the vista beyond. "This is why I chose this place. The pool, the trees, the privacy. We even have a waterfall over there, and we're so close to the creek."
Russell W. Forrest, director of community development for Vail, said the town would do everything possible to replicate what the Lodge owners now have, in effect, living units of 1,600 to 2,200 square feet that sell for as much as $1.5 million. By one design, a new building could be constructed at its current site, only turned from its current east-west axis to north-south, a change that would deprive most owners of the views they have now. Another option is to build across the proposed lake, a site still near the creek but away from the tall pines.
Or, the residents could decline both offers, forcing town planners to embrace a less dramatic vision of the future, with fewer amenities and a smaller plaza. Ms. Dyer said she had no idea what the homeowners association might decide.
Mayor Kurtz and other officials involved with the redevelopment plans say that whatever the homeowners decide is fine and that the town will plan accordingly.
"There would be a small level of disappointment that we might not be able to do as well as we could," Mr. Kurtz said, contemplating the possibility that the homeowners would refuse to move. If so, he promised, they would not be stigmatized as obstructionists.
It was less clear if they were in any danger of having their lift tickets pulled if they chose to remain.
"You know, I never thought of that," Porter Wharton, senior vice president of public affairs for Vail Resorts, said with a mischievous grin.
"Only kidding," Mr. Wharton said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials in Vail, Colo., want to move Marilyn Dyer and 11 other homeowners to make room for a plaza. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VAIL (COLO); UNITED STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); RESORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); RETAILERS (84%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); MAYORS (74%); HIKING (72%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (71%); FAMILY (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (61%); TICKET SALES (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL VAIL RENAISSANCE (93%); MARILYN DYER (87%); LUDWIG KURTZ (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



513 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Jitters Over Profit Reports Push Dow Sharply Lower

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday as concerns about corporate profit growth hurt old-line manufacturing concerns even as enthusiasm about the earnings prospects for technology companies continued to rise.
The Dow Jones industrial average, composed of many old economy names, fell 122.68 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,435.16. The decline, which was led by General Motors and Honeywell, wiped out Monday's advance of 108.54 points. 
 But the Nasdaq composite index rose for a fourth consecutive session. Fueled by gains in stocks like Intel, Yahoo and Apple Computer, the index gained 23.53, or 0.6 percent, to 4,013.36. It was the first time in more than two months that the Nasdaq has closed above 4,000. The index remains far below its March 10 record of 5,048.62. But with its recent recovery, the index is now down just 1.4 percent this year.
"You have to be impressed by the continued recovery of technology stocks, both large and small cap, and the deterioration of the old-economy issues," said James Paulson, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management.
"But there is still a sense we are caught in a box: either the economy is slowing much faster than anyone expects, which is a negative, or the Fed is not finished tightening because the economy is still growing strongly."
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 10.05, or 0.7 percent, to 1,475.95, as weakness in stocks like Tyco International and Cisco Systems more than offset gains in America Online, Time Warner and Oracle.
After the market closed, Oracle, the world's biggest maker of database software, reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street's estimates.
Despite the results, the stock, which closed yesterday at 86 3/64 , up 3/64 , fell after hours to as low as 83.
Bad earnings news hurt G.M. after the company said its North American operations would miss profit margin goals because of declining car prices. And Honeywell fell sharply for a second day after saying earnings would fall short of estimates.
G.M. slumped 2 13/16 , to 62 1/16 . Honeywell dropped 3 7/8, to a 52-week low of 36 3/8. In the last two trading sessions, Honeywell's stock price has fallen more than 25 percent.
The announcement from G.M. pulled down the other automakers. Ford Motor fell 1 7/8, to 43, and DaimlerChrysler lost 1 1/16 , to 54 3/16 .
"Earnings preannouncements have been holding the market back," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. "But we have not had a major technology bellwether preannounce an earnings shortfall, and that has allowed the Nasdaq to resume its leadership role. As we muddle our way through to earnings season, there is room on the upside, even if the Federal Reserve Board raises short-term interest rates by one-quarter of a percentage point."
Intel and Micron Technology were among the technology stocks that helped lead the group's advance. Intel, which soared on Monday, gained an additional 1 13/16 yesterday, to close at 138 5/16 . And Micron rose 9, to 89 3/8.
Brokerage stocks did better on unexpected strength in second-quarter earnings from Goldman Sachs, whose results beat Wall Street expectations. After an early rally, its shares closed at 89, down 2 5/8. But the results helped push up Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's stock 2 1/8, to 86 9/16 . And Merrill Lynch rose 3 1/2, to 122.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By The Associated Press
 Bonds prices fell yesterday in quiet trading, as investors turned skittish ahead of next week's Federal Reserve meeting.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1/32 , to 105. The bond's yield was essentially unchanged at 5.89 percent.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32 , to 103 17/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.01 percent from 5.99 percent on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); AOL INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); NEW ECONOMY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (66%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



514 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN RISES. The yen gained against the dollar on expectations that Japan's central bank would raise interest rates later this year. In New York, the dollar settled at 105.44 yen, down from 105.75 on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES JAPANESE YEN (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



515 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Curbs on 'Predatory' Lending

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20

 BODY:
The government, citing growing abuses by some mortgage lenders, is proposing that companies making high-cost loans be required to give borrowers more accurate data on costs and terms.
A report on so-called predatory lending released today by the departments of Treasury and Housing and Urban Development also recommended legislation to ban practices like loan "flipping" and to restrict prepayment penalties. In flipping, lenders constantly refinance mortgage loans to generate fees for brokers, with little benefit to the borrower. 
 The report warned that predatory lending, in which companies seek low-income and minority borrowers and charge them what are considered unfairly high interest rates and fees, threatens to roll back recent gains in revitalizing neighborhoods and expanding home ownership.
The report said a task force of the two agencies learned about some practices that are clearly abusive during recent public hearings.
The report recommended that lenders be required to recommend home mortgage counseling to people applying for high-cost loans and that mortgage brokers should be required to demonstrate the appropriateness of a loan for an applicant.
The report also said lump-sum credit life insurance should be banned on all mortgage loans. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT HOUSING&URBAN DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT HOUSING&URBAN DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINES (PENALTIES); MORTGAGES PREDATORY LENDING (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); CREDIT INSURANCE (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CITIES (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



516 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Note

 BODY:
A front-page article on Sunday reported on the wide variety of low-budget theatrical productions around New York City making use of the city's huge pool of unemployed talent.
The article was illustrated by a photograph of four dancers from the unpaid cast of a production of "Goldilocks" rehearsing in front of a large mirror. The picture was made with a panoramic camera at a very slow shutter speed, in which the film is exposed from left to right over a period of a full second (compared with a standard speed ranging from one-thirtieth to one-thousandth of a second). Because of the very slow speed, the dancers' images as reflected in the mirror were caught at a slightly later moment, so they looked different.
This camera technique had an unusual effect in print, raising questions among some readers about whether there had been digital tampering with the image. To forestall such questions, the explanation of the unusual staggering of images should have been explained in the caption. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editors' Note

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; CORRECTION STORIES THEATER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



517 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
New Owners Take Over and Promise to Jump-Start Isles

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The new co-owner of the Islanders said yesterday that he had not started negotiations to alter the team's unfavorable lease at aging Nassau Coliseum.
"I've not had a single conversation on lease economics with anyone," said Sanjay Kumar, whose $187.5 million purchase of the Islanders with Charles Wang was approved yesterday by the National Hockey League's board of governors. 
 Kumar said the lease the team has at the Coliseum with SMG, the landlord, "is not No. 1 on my list."
"No. 1 is to field the best team possible, and No. 2 is to improve the fan experience," he said. "Economics and a new facility, the time will come." He said talks with SMG may not start until the fall.
The league also approved the $175 million acquisition of the Devils from John McMullen by Puck Holdings, an entity controlled by the primary shareholders of YankeeNets, and the purchase of the Colorado Avalanche by Stanley Kroenke, a real estate developer.
The N.H.L.'s approval of Wang and Kumar ends a tumultuous period during which the team bounced from John Pickett, to John Spano, who is in jail for defrauding banks to finance his purchase of the team, back to Pickett, and, since early 1998, to Howard and Edward Milstein and Stephen Gluckstern.
Kumar, who runs Computer Associates International with Wang, said more season tickets had been sold for the coming season than for any of the past four years and there were commitments to lease all luxury boxes.
The player payroll, only $16 million last season, will be increased. The new spending will depend, in part, on the players the team selects in Saturday's entry draft. The Islanders own the No. 1 pick.
"Our strategy is to spend with a purpose," he said. "We have no intention to spend on a whim." His inclination is to supplement the Islanders' strategic acquisitions, not sign one expensive free agent.
He added that by the home opener in October, there will be improved seating and concessions at the Coliseum.
Meanwhile, Bob Gutkowski and Charles Koppelman, who unsuccessfully tried to buy the Islanders earlier this year, yesterday took over the management of Worldwide Entertainment & Sports, a Manhattan marketing, management and Internet company. Its clients include the boxers Shannon Briggs and Chris Byrd, and the football players O. J. McDuffie and Antonio Freeman. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS; NASSAU COLISEUM CA INC (67%); MAGNUM SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT INC (52%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (93%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (55%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS; NASSAU COLISEUM NEW YORK ISLANDERS (93%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (55%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; RENTING AND LEASING WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); TICKET SALES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; KUMAR, SANJAY CHARLES B WANG (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



518 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Is Pursuing His Case For Retirement Savings Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky., June 20

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore set his case today for government-subsidized savings accounts, saying his plan would help families build wealth for retirement and other uses without putting their guaranteed Social Security benefits at risk in the stock market.
Seeking to contrast his approach to Gov. George W. Bush's proposal to create personal investment accounts within the Social Security system, Mr. Gore said his plan would encourage lower- and middle-income people to save by adding a program to supplement Social Security. 
 In a speech, the tone of which could have been heard either as robust populism or class warfare, Mr. Gore said his plan was intended not just for people "who think comfortably about their savings over Scotch in the club looking out at the golf links, but also the ones who carefully try to make it all add up to the dream over a pressured half-hour break on the factory floor."
The appearance before a group of Democrats here was the latest in his effort to focus the presidential race on the strong economy and how best to apportion the budget surplus.
In political terms, it gave Mr. Gore an opportunity to present a positive alternative to Mr. Bush's proposal to allow workers to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes in the stock market. And in economic terms it addressed one of the nation's biggest weaknesses, the low rate of personal savings.
Mr. Gore changed plans immediately after the speech, postponing until Wednesday a trip to Des Moines and instead flying to Washington in case his vote was needed in the Senate to break a tie over hate-crimes legislation backed by the Clinton administration. In the end, Mr. Gore's vote was not needed.
Mr. Gore's savings plan is built around providing matching funds, through tax credits, for people who put money away in a type of savings account that would be modeled after an Individual Retirement Account. The plan, which would become effective gradually over 10 years, would give more substantial credits to people at the low end of the income spectrum, and would phase out for people at higher income levels.
Contributions to the accounts would be tax deductible, and investment earnings would build tax free. The money would be taxed on withdrawal. While the accounts would be intended for retirement savings, the money could also be used to pay for college tuition, a first home or catastrophic medical expenses.
The Gore campaign said the plan would cost about $200 billion over 10 years, making it one of the largest single initiatives proposed by the vice president this year.
The Bush campaign said Mr. Gore's proposal followed Mr. Bush's lead in acknowledging the attractiveness of allowing workers to invest for retirement, but was otherwise flawed.
"Low-income workers living paycheck to paycheck cannot afford it, and it doesn't stop Social Security from going broke," said Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman.
Mr. Gore continued his attack on Mr. Bush's investment-based approach, saying it could drive the budget back into deficit, undermine the nation's prosperity and penalize "the elderly people who happen to be on the losing end of a roll of the dice."
But most of the vice president's speech today sought to portray his plan as a gateway to wealth, security and opportunity for people who have historically had trouble putting aside any substantial amounts of money in savings. He cast the issue in terms of what happened to his childhood friends from two different places.
"The ones I went to school with in Washington, D.C., came mostly from well-to-do families wth enough money to send them to college and stake them to a good start," he said. "And most of them have done well in life.
"The ones I spent my summers with in Carthage, Tenn., were at least as smart, but their families weren't nearly as well off," he said. "And I saw the opportunity gap open, and widen, and there were times when it broke my heart. They deserve more than they got. And I'll be damned if I'm going to let that injustice continue."
In emphasizing his proposal's appeal to lower- and middle-income residents, Mr. Gore drew an implicit comparison to Mr. Bush's plan. Mr. Bush's approach is built around a large tax cut whose benefits would go largely to people who pay the most taxes, the wealthy, and his Social Security plan, which seeks to appeal to what Republicans see as a large new investor class that encompasses many middle-income people.
Mr. Gore's plan has its roots in a proposal first offered by President Clinton two years ago. Under the Clinton plan, low- and moderate-income savers would not only have received matching funds from the government, but they would also have received an upfront payment to get their savings accounts going.
The Gore plan, which would be voluntary, would not offer any upfront payment, and it is unclear how much new savings the program would stimulate, especially among low-income households.
It would offer matching funds for deposits made into the accounts, with the amount of the match dependent on income. A couple making as much as $30,000 a year, for example, could each receive a $3 for $1 match of deposits up to $500 a year; for their $500, each person would receive another $1,500 through a tax credit, giving the account a total value at the end of the year of $2,000.
A couple making up to $60,000 would receive a $1 for $1 match of their deposits up to $1,000 each. A couple earning as much as $100,000 a year could contribute up to $1,500, and receive a match of $1 for every $3 they deposit.
The accounts would be administered by banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions, and would be limited to offering mutual funds and other broad-based investments rather than individual stocks.
Mr. Gore is expected to announce on Wednesday his support for modest reductions in the federal estate tax to help farmers and small-business owners.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore posed with well-wishers yesterday in Washington. Aresa Williams, an intern from Mississippi for Senator Thad Cochran, had her photograph taken by a colleague, Melissa Walton, right. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TUITION FEES (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); HATE CRIME (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); THAD COCHRAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



519 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Senate Kills Plan for Panel To Review Cuban Embargo

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to defeat an effort to create a special commission to study the effectiveness of the American economic embargo against Cuba.
The amendment was struck from the defense authorization bill by a vote of 59 to 41, after Republicans and a few Democrats rallied against it, calling the measure ill-timed, ill-advised and a backhanded attempt to change Cuba policy. 
 The measure would have created a commission in which Republicans, who tend to support the Cuban embargo, would have been outnumbered by Democrats, who tend to want to end it.
The defeat came as no surprise. Even Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who was one of the measure's sponsors, did not expect the amendment to survive. But it served a larger purpose today for critics of the Castro government: to keep the debate over Cuba policy alive in Congress at a time when the Clinton administration is softening on sanctions against other defiant nations. On Monday, the administration announced the easing of sanctions against North Korea.
Among those who voted to remove the amendment was Senator John W. Warner, the Virginia Republican. Mr. Warner, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, originally co-sponsored the measure, an indication of just how sensitive the issue of policy toward Cuba remains.
Supporters of a commission said American policy toward Cuba was outdated. "Castro is in no position to export revolution, none whatsoever," said Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat, alluding to the country's financial crisis. "According to the Pentagon, Castro represents no real threat to national security. So times have changed.
"We have in place a policy that has not worked in 40 years. It was a different world in the 1960's."
But the measure's opponents argued that nothing has changed, so Cuba should not be rewarded by a commission likely to recommend ending the embargo.
"This is the same regime that sent its troops to Africa to further the cause of Communism," said Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican, who said he supported lifting sanctions against the Communist government of Vietnam but only after it carried out new policies. "It's the same regime that continues to repress and oppress its people."
The question of whether the United States should alter its policy toward Cuba, specifically on trade, took on new life this year, when a powerful coalition that included agribusiness giants increased pressure on lawmakers from farming states to open new markets. Human rights and major business groups have also lobbied extensively on this issue.
Two Senate and House delegations sympathetic to weakening or lifting sanctions recently visited Cuba to see conditions there.
House Republican leaders continue to grapple over how to proceed on a measure, which some of them oppose, that would permit the export of food and medicine to Cuba under certain restrictions. The measure, sponsored by Representative George Nethercutt, a Washington Republican, has delayed consideration of the huge farm spending bill. A similar provision has passed the Senate.
While opponents of the bill, including Cuban-American lawmakers, say they will fight to block it, there have been recent signs of compromise.
The House Republican whip, Tom DeLay of Texas, who has been a staunch supporter of the embargo, is now trying to broker an agreement between anti-embargo House members and Florida lawmakers who oppose sales to Cuba, his spokesman said today.
The spokesman, Jonathan Baron, was quoted by The Associated Press as saying that while Mr. DeLay "remains opposed to easing sanctions on rogue states, including Cuba, whenever there are disagreements in the Republican conference, the leadership works to resolve them."
Last weekend, the Cuban American National Foundation, an anti-Castro lobbying group, began running television ads reminding voters that Cuba is run by a Communist government.
At the very least, Cuban-American lawmakers want to ensure that Cuba will be denied private and public financing to buy food and medicine. The Nethercutt measure excludes public financing and is silent on other forms, House Republican aides say.
"American farmers are being told, if only you can sell some crops to Cuba, your crisis will be relieved," said Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat. "Cuba has no money."
But Republican leaders face a quandary over how to handle Mr. Nethercutt in this election year. He is a Republican who faces a tough re-election effort in a one-time Democratic district. And he maintains that he has enough votes to win on the issue.
Mr. Torricelli said he and the two Florida senators met with Senator Warner to try to persuade him to set aside the measure, arguing that the best time to create a commission is after a new president is elected. "It makes more sense for a new president to consider the idea," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1062 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2000 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARIZONA REPUBLICAN (61%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ARMED FORCES (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (64%); AGRICULTURE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE JOHN WARNER (78%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



520 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Changing Tack, Clinton Urges Increasing Medicare Payments

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20

 BODY:
President Clinton today proposed increasing Medicare payments to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers, as evidence grew that cuts made in 1997 had harmed the quality of care around the country.
Mr. Clinton asked Congress to increase payments to providers by $21 billion in the next five years and by $40 billion over 10 years. 
 The proposals represent an abrupt reversal by the administration. In his budget request just five months ago, Mr. Clinton asked Congress to cut payments to providers by $30 billion over the next 10 years.
The original cuts were made with bipartisan support in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. Lawmakers wanted to slow the growth of Medicare, but the savings have far exceeded expectations. Medicare spending declined last year by nearly 1 percent, to $209 billion. It was the first decline since the creation of the Medicare program in 1965.
Mr. Clinton asked Congress today to increase Medicare payments to hospitals, home health agencies and nursing homes, and he proposed a small increase for health maintenance organizations.
The first three industries welcomed the proposals. But H.M.O. executives said that they were disappointed and that the proposed increases would not be enough to prevent H.M.O.'s from pulling out of Medicare.
"The administration seems not to be addressing the crisis facing Medicare beneficiaries in H.M.O.'s," said Karen M. Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans.
On the other hand, Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, hailed the proposal. Hospitals in the New York area have laid off workers because of financial problems that they trace to the 1997 law.
Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate in New York, has expressed concern about the adequacy of Medicare payments to teaching hospitals. But Chris Jennings, the health policy coordinator at the White House, said, "She did not develop, design, approve or review" the proposals announced today.
The president is, in effect, getting out in front of a parade that has already begun to form on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are scrambling to help health care providers.
Home health care has been hit harder than any other service in the last two years. Medicare spending on home care dropped 45 percent, to $9.7 billion in 1999 from $17.5 billion in 1997. Under current law, payments will be cut by 15 percent in October 2001.
Mr. Clinton said today that Congress should delay that cut for one year. But Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said: "The White House plan is not enough. The 15 percent cut in home health payments should be eliminated altogether."
Many lawmakers share that view.
Until now, lobbyists for the elderly, seeking new prescription drug benefits, had seen themselves as competing with health care providers for scarce federal dollars.
But with estimates of the federal budget surplus soaring, and with the Medicare trust fund solvent until 2025, Mr. Clinton said today, "I believe we can do both" -- enhance payments to providers and add drug benefits to Medicare.
It is not at all certain that Congress will do both this year. Politically, it is easy to increase payments to providers, by changing just a few words in Medicare reimbursement formulas. But lawmakers have had immense difficulty agreeing on Medicare drug benefits.
Mr. Clinton explained in detail how he wanted to spend half of the money he proposed to give health care providers. Use of the other half would be decided with Congress.
These are the highlights of the president's plan:
*Hospitals would receive $5 billion over five years and $10 billion over 10 years. They would receive a full allowance for inflation, increasing their Medicare payments about 3 percent, rather than the 2 percent expected under current law. Medicare would increase special payments to teaching hospitals and to hospitals that serve large numbers of poor people.
*Home health agencies would receive $2 billion over five years and $3 billion over 10 years. Home care agencies would get a 3.4 percent increase for inflation, rather than the 2.3 percent expected under current law.
*Nursing homes would receive $1 billion over five years and $2 billion over 10 years. Restrictions on physical, occupational and speech therapy would be delayed a year.
Medicare officials had minimized complaints from health care providers. But the White House changed its tune today, saying Medicare cuts appeared to "undermine access to quality health care services" as "hospitals' financial status has deteriorated significantly since 1997."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1063 No Official Title Given (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOME HEALTH OUTREACH (52%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HOSPITALS; NURSING HOMES MEDICARE (96%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HOME HEALTH CARE (74%); AGING (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



521 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Lobbying in City Rises Again, Reaching $12.7 Million in '99

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Professional lobbying of New York City government officials increased again last year, as $12.7 million was spent by such companies as Anheuser-Busch and the Roundabout Theater trying to influence city lawmakers and bureaucrats.
The increase compared with 1998 was small -- just 2 percent -- but it was the fifth gain in a row. The amount that companies pay firms to lobby the city has jumped by 50 percent since Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani entered office in 1994, according to the city clerk's annual report on lobbying, which is to be released today. 
 The top lobbying firm for the fourth year in a row was the Albany office of Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman & Dicker, which billed $1.4 million to clients including the Hotel Association of New York City, the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the American Insurance Association.
"Everyone wants to have an advocate on the city and the state level," said Peter A. Piscitelli, the partner in charge of the New York City office of Wilson, Elser. Mr. Piscitelli was a senior aide in the Koch administration, and his son, Anthony Piscitelli, is a senior aide to Mr. Giuliani, serving as the city's lobbyist in Albany.
Another firm high on the list with close ties to the Giuliani administration, is Fischbein, Badillo, Wagner & Harding. Ranked eighth among the lobbyists, it earned $389,195 in fees last year, a 21 percent increase over 1998. Two of the firm's senior partners -- Herman Badillo and Raymond B. Harding, the leader of the state Liberal Party -- are close political allies of the mayor. And Mr. Harding is the father of Robert M. Harding, Mr. Giuliani's deputy mayor for economic development and finance, and Russell A. Harding, president of the New York City Housing Development Corporation.
Democrats and civic advocates have criticized Mr. Giuliani for several years for allowing a firm run by Mr. Badillo and Mr. Harding to lobby his administration, and have said it lobbied on behalf of only three clients in the year before Mr. Giuliani took office. Last year, it was paid to represent 32 clients, including Shaya B. Developers, a real estate developer, and Rite Aid pharmacies.
"It's a matter of the appearance of influence and access to City Hall," said Gene Russianoff, senior attorney at the New York Public Interest Research Group. "It's a serious issue." Mr. Russianoff himself is a registered lobbyist. (His group was paid $5,634 for lobbying the city.)
Richard S. Fischbein, a senior partner at Fischbein, Badillo, said yesterday that overall receipts from lobbying New York City officials were less than 1 percent of his firm's annual revenue. Most of the lobbying work entails helping companies with land-use and zoning matters, he said, but he rejected suggestions that his firm took advantage of its close ties to the mayor. "The whole concept is absurd," Mr. Fischbein said.
The city clerk's annual report offers only a glimpse of actual lobbying efforts in the city, as many common forms of lobbying, like public relations or legal representation, are not included. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (58%); BUD (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WILSON, ELSER, MOSKOWITZ, EDELMAN & DICKER; ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO; ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES WILSON ELSER MOSKOWITZ EDELMAN & DICKER LLP (84%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (58%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (56%); AMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILSON, ELSER, MOSKOWITZ, EDELMAN & DICKER; ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO; ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (56%); AMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CITIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); THEATER (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); POLITICS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); INSURANCE (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); PHARMACIES (60%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



522 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: Schools Turning From Teaching the Trades

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
In a carpentry shop at Ralph R. McKee Vocational and Technical High School on Staten Island the other morning, a class of 18 seniors put the finishing touches on their final projects for the year -- filing and chiseling, making mailboxes and small round tables. Their teacher, a cabinetmaker by trade, moved busily around the work benches, helping with a measurement here and there.
But there was a degree of resignation to go with all the eager work: the carpentry class of 2000 will be McKee's last, and in closing, it will be joining the school's list of recent casualties. In the last two years, the school has shut down the plumbing and electrical shops. The electrical shop, now a graphic arts laboratory filled with computers, was closed after the teacher retired and the school could not find a qualified replacement. 
 McKee High is not alone. Facing a changed marketplace, dwindling enrollment, years of fiscal neglect and immense pressure to raise academic standards and prepare students for college, vocational schools and programs in New York and across the country are struggling to survive and rushing to reinvent themselves. In every state, vocational schools -- many of them no longer using the word vocational in their names -- are in some phase of transition, either because of intense pressure to adapt to new demands or because educators have seized the moment as an opportunity to turn them around.
At Thomas A. Edison High School in Queens, the plumbing shop closed four years ago; George Westinghouse High School in Brooklyn is closing the last of its jewelry-making shops this year and phasing out its carpentry program. Fifteen years ago, there were nearly 30 teachers of machine shop in the city's trade schools; now, there are none. And the number of freshmen entering city vocational schools has slid by more than a quarter in the last three years alone. The schools have turned away from the building trades even as industry officials have complained about a shortage of skilled workers in plumbing and carpentry.
For generations, McKee and schools like it sent legions of students into the everyday, reliable work world of plumbing, electrical installation, auto repair, hairdressing and carpentry. In their glory, the city's vocational schools were stepping stones for immigrants, as well as for the children of plumbers and electricians and others, to get a good job and get ahead.
"It's like any degenerative illness," said Chuck Merten, who taught plumbing at Edison until the shop was closed and he moved to one of the school's few remaining electrical shops. "You go along not paying much attention to the aches and pains, and then you wake up one day and you say, 'Oh my God. I'm really sick.' I think that's where we are."
The condition of vocational education across the country runs a wide gamut, from programs that are dying and fading to schools in a state of confusion to some that have begun to thrive as they redefine their missions, education experts say.
Some schools, like those in Fairfax County, Va., have eliminated vocational education altogether.
"We took vocational education out of everything we do in this county," said John Witmann, administrator of the Chantilly Academy for Engineering and Scientific Technology in Fairfax, which used to be called the Chantilly Vocational School. "It no longer exists."
In the five years since the school was revamped, enrollment at Chantilly, which offers several concentrations of study in engineering and health and human services, has tripled, to 1,000 students from 300, Mr. Witmann said.
Four years ago, schools in Ohio, which had a long tradition of teaching trades like welding, masonry and electricity, began to eliminate many shop classes, folding them into more general concentrations of study and allowing students more time for academic courses, Ohio education officials said. That state, like New York, has recently required all students to meet tougher academic requirements.
"There is an increasing view that vocational education is not an appropriate role for a high school education," said James R. Stone III, deputy director of the National Center for Research in Career and Technical Education, a federally financed research center based in St. Paul. "It is increasingly difficult to sustain the traditional programs."
In New York City, the range of explanations for the decline of its once vaunted trade schools is wide: budget cuts and the sense that the schools had become dumping grounds for students not smart enough to go to college; waning interest among youngsters worried about making their way in a high-technology economy; the difficulty of keeping teachers who, in a booming marketplace, have no trouble finding high-paying work.
Things have not been made easier for the vocational schools in recent years as the state has toughened its academic standards for all high school students. The roughly 25,000 students at the city's vocational schools, who used to balance their shop work with a more modest academic curriculum tailored to their trades, will soon have to pass the same statewide English and other exams as all other students to earn their diplomas.
For many, there is the sense that the future of the city's 18 vocational schools is in peril, and that something legendary could be lost.
Schools like Harry Van Arsdale High in Brooklyn, Edison in Queens and Alfred E. Smith in the Bronx were once known as great training grounds for skilled craftsmen. They had a prestige in the blue-collar world; even before students earned their diplomas, stamped with vocational endorsements in their trades, they had jobs or apprenticeships lined up.
Teachers at several vocational schools that have eliminated programs say they still get calls from plumbers, carpenters or heating and cooling companies looking for graduates of the city's vocational schools.
"We had graduates working all over Queens and Brooklyn," said Mr. Merten, who was a plumber before taking the Edison teaching job 25 years ago. "They had four years of training and an endorsement from a city school. That carried a lot of weight."
Some schools, like Queens Vocational High School in Long Island City, have held on to the traditional skilled trades. They have refused to close down their shops, and in the process made what they characterize as a principled and practical stand on the belief that no matter how high-tech the world gets, someone is still going to have to know how the toilet's plumbing works. Unlike many of the city's vocational schools, it has not lost students.
"I've always liked working with my hands," said Byron Mendoza, a senior at Queens Vocational who has studied plumbing there for four years. "It's hard work, but it's a good trade."
Down the hall from the plumbing shop, where Mr. Mendoza was cutting and soldering pipes and testing them for leaks, Hugo Cruz, a senior studying electrical installation, was finishing up a wiring job on a 220-volt control panel, his final project for the year.
"You know how they say you have a natural-born talent?" he asked. "That's me. I love this job. I like to have pride in what I do. If one day I build a whole building, I'll be able to look at it and say I did that."
Queens Vocational, which opened in 1929, still offers a full complement of plumbing, electrical installation, cosmetology, stenography and other traditional subjects. It has one of only two plumbing shops left in the city's school system -- the other is at Alfred E. Smith Vocational School in the South Bronx.
"My feeling is that we are a vocational school and that is our mission," said Steve Serber, the principal.
But it has not been easy. For the vast majority of the city's 18 vocational schools, the challenge is perhaps best summed up by a phrase on the brochure McKee uses to promote its newly designed computer technology program: "adapt or perish."
For some schools, like McKee, whose 600 students are half as many as it had in 1981, adapting has amounted to a complete overhaul.
The old machine shop will soon be used as a robotics shop. The sheet-metal shop, the city's last when it was closed in the 1980's, was turned into a guidance office. Fiber optics, computer networking and graphic design, courses with a focus on the latest technology, have taken the place of the traditional trades. The plumbing, carpentry and electrical trades will be folded into one broader program called construction technology, which the school hopes will draw more students.
"The rapid pace of change demands this," said McKee's principal, Beverly L. Garcia-Anderson.
Many other New York City vocational schools, like Edison and Grace H. Dodge Vocational High School in the Bronx, now promote themselves as academic institutions and emphasize college preparation, with opportunities for vocational training sounding almost like an afterthought.
Some educators in vocational schools support the new focus on college and academics, saying it will broaden the students' knowledge, better prepare them for work and give them an education that, with both academics and vocational training, offers them "two for the price of one."
"I think we're going to have to redefine what a high school experience is," said Steve Feldman, director of the school-to-career program at the Board of Education, which helps coordinate vocational programs and courses.
Mr. Feldman said he would support a set of proposals now under consideration by the state's Board of Regents, which in 1996 mandated the new high school graduation requirements, allowing vocational students greater flexibility in their academic course work toward a diploma, and possibly offering credit for courses related to the trades that also prepare them for exams in the five academic subjects.
Acknowledging the predicament of vocational schools that have had to steal time from trades to help prepare their students for the Regents exams, a panel of state education officials presented recommendations to the Regents last Wednesday on ways to allow the students more time in their shop and trade courses.
Under the 1996 graduation policy, which will be phased in by 2004, all public high school students must pass exams in English, math, science, global studies and American history and government.
Mr. Serber of Queens Vocational, like other principals at vocational schools, has searched for ways to bring academics into the shops. Several days a week, English teachers work in the shops with plumbing students, and he has asked the shop teachers to include more writing in their lesson plans, like developing instruction manuals for electrical wiring projects and plumbing jobs.
"We are going to try our hardest," Mr. Serber said. "But it may get to a point where the kids whose skills are poor have to leave."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Colas, finishing a project on outdoor lighting at Queens Vocational High, is among a decreasing number of students learning trades. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. A1); (Photograph by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Chart: "Vocational Education Declines"
Signs of a trend away from vocationaland occupational education.
(Sources: Board of Education; State Department of Education)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: A EDISON HIGH SCHOOL (61%); TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL ON STATEN ISLAND (66%); CHANTILLY ACADEMY FOR ENGINEERING&SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL ON STATEN ISLAND (66%); CHANTILLY ACADEMY FOR ENGINEERING&SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; STATES (US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); PLUMBING SUPPLY STORES (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH JOHN WITMANN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



523 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
'Money Per Pupil' Is an Incomplete Response

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
IF you look at just the numbers in a new analysis of city schools, the policy implication seems obvious and painful. If we truly care about the next generation, we've got to start spending less money on schools.
The amount of money spent per pupil is inversely related to academic performance, according to an analysis of spending in the city's 32 community school districts by The New York Times. The analysis, published last week, found that the best schools spent the least per pupil and had the most crowded classrooms. 
 No one, of course, is actually suggesting a causal relationship. No one believes that students in Bushwick score lower than students on the Upper East Side because the per-pupil spending is 9 percent higher in Bushwick ($8,964 versus $8,229).
But the results are nonetheless painful for educators and politicians and journalists. Money has traditionally been everyone's favorite measure of the city's commitment to education: simple, convenient, uncontroversial.
Money makes all the players happy. It buys patronage jobs for school-district officials, raises for teachers, dues for unions, campaign contributions for politicians. Money gives everyone an excuse for failure. The Board of Education can blame City Hall for skimping on the budget, and City Hall can blame Albany for insufficient state aid.
The Times's analysis may defy conventional political wisdom, but it does not surprise Eric Hanushek, an economist at the University of Rochester. In a statewide study, he found no relationship between the amount spent per pupil in a school district and the percentage of students who pass the Regents exams.
In a New York City study, he looked at elementary and middle schools with students from predominantly low-income families. "There's little relationship between spending and student performance in those high-poverty schools," he said, "If anything, the schools that spend more money have less to show for it."
Dr. Hanushek is an expert witness for the State of New York in a lawsuit brought by the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, a coalition of advocacy groups seeking more school aid for city schools. He doubts that the extra money would make much difference.
"Among school districts nationwide," he said, "New York City is well within the top 10 percent when it comes to spending per pupil. It's hard to imagine that they do not have the resources to provide an adequate education. How they're spending it is more important than how much they get."
Leanna Stiefel, an economist at the Wagner School at New York University, has been a consultant to the other side in the lawsuit. She believes that more state aid can help city schools, but she agrees that it has to be spent differently.
"Looking at data from school districts across the country," she said, "it's hard to find a positive correlation between per-pupil expenditures and educational results. More money won't do much good if it's just added in the same pattern that exists now. We have to focus on things that work, like higher salaries for teachers, and making schools more accountable."
WHY is money being wasted today? "It's not that teachers and administrators are evil," Dr. Hanushek said. "There just aren't any real incentives to spend money well because there aren't rewards for improving student performance. So there's a tendency to spend money on things that make life easier for teachers and administrators."
Dr. Hanushek has a couple of suggestions for new incentives. "You can reward good performance with bonuses for teachers and schools that do well," he said. "Or you can do it with vouchers, which allow parents to vote on performance by choosing schools."
New York parents seem eager to vote, to judge from another set of numbers last week. In a New York Times/CBS News poll of state residents, 52 percent said that parents should be allowed to use tax-financed vouchers to attend private or religious schools. Forty percent disagreed.
Vouchers were favored by 50 percent to 42 percent among whites, 61 to 31 among blacks and 63 to 29 among Hispanics. The breakdown was 51 percent to 40 percent among Democrats and 60 percent to 34 percent among Republicans.
Geographically, the most enthusiastic respondents were New York City residents, who favored vouchers 56 percent to 36 percent. Apparently some of them had already concluded, without doing any formal correlations, that money does not necessarily buy a good education at a public school. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); WRITERS (71%); FAMILY (67%); EXPERT WITNESSES (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); CHILD POVERTY (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN ERIC HANUSHEK (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



524 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Wins Year's Reprieve From Penalties

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20

 BODY:
The trial judge in the Microsoft antitrust case unexpectedly delayed today the sweeping restrictions he had imposed on the company's conduct until a higher court affirms them.
The restrictions on Microsoft's business practices, ranging from the features of its software to its relations with customers and rivals, were to take effect in just 11 weeks. They were part of an order signed two weeks ago by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson that also called for a breakup of the company. 
 The judge had already stayed the breakup until appeals were complete. Now none of the steps he ordered in his remedy ruling may go into effect for a year or longer, even if they are upheld.
Microsoft was jubilant; for weeks the company had been arguing that the conduct restrictions would cause grievous harm to the company and its customers.
Judge Jackson's stay order was issued as he sent the case to the Supreme Court for direct review, an idea the Justice Department had advocated and Microsoft had vigorously opposed.
Under a provision of antitrust law, cases with significant impact can be appealed directly to the Supreme Court. With Judge Jackson's action today, it is now up to the Supreme Court to decide whether to take the case directly, or to let an appeal be heard first by the Court of Appeals.
The Justice Department lauded Judge Jackson for referring the case to the high court but added, "Given the district court's decision to stay the remedy during the appeal process, the direct appeal to the Supreme Court is of particular importance to the national interest."
In a brief filed with Judge Jackson earlier today, the department had argued that "in an industry Microsoft vigorously characterizes as fast paced and quickly changing," delay "would undermine the ultimate value of the remedy to correct the harmful results of Microsoft's anticompetitive actions and to restore competition."
Judge Jackson did not explain his decision to stay the conduct restrictions, but he appears uncomfortable with imposing a sweeping remedy before his work on the case has been reviewed by a higher court.
In an interview earlier this year, the judge said: "I have been in splendid isolation on this case long enough. I would welcome another mind studying my work product to see if I am correct or wrongheaded. I want to move this case upstairs as quickly as possible."
Until the judge's order today, the Supreme Court would have been called on to rule quickly on Microsoft's request to stay the remedy order -- or to decide that the entire case should be sent to the appeals court. Now the Supreme Court, or the appeals court, can review the entire appeal, and rule on it, before deciding whether to impose Judge Jackson's remedy, to modify it or to cancel it. The process could take a year -- or longer if the case is sent back to the appeals court and then appealed to the Supreme Court.
Under Judge Jackson's order, Microsoft would be broken into separate companies, one for its Windows operating system and one for its other software and Internet businesses. The company would also be forced to comply with a long list of restrictions on its conduct lasting three years if the breakup order withstands appeal, and 10 years if it does not.
The provisions included uniform royalty terms for Windows products, a ban on exclusive deals or on making the company's sales to hardware or software makers contingent on use of other Microsoft products, and an order not to retaliate against "any person or entity" that provided evidence against it.
Those conduct restrictions were to take effect 90 days after his order was issued, or Sept. 5. And though the breakup itself was stayed until appeals were complete, Microsoft was required to prepare a detailed plan for the breakup by Oct. 5. That order is now stayed as well.
At least in the short term, Microsoft can now carry out new business -- like moving its next generation of software products increasingly from the personal computer to the Internet -- unimpeded by the restrictions proposed by the government and approved by Judge Jackson.
This evening, Vivek Varma, a Microsoft spokesman, said: "Obviously we are very pleased with the judge's decision to stay the remedy order. This lets us go forward with our appeal without any disruption to our business and our customers."
The law under which direct appeals are authorized, the Expediting Act, has been used in only one previous case, the AT&T case, since it was revised in 1974. And so there are few precedents for judging how the Supreme Court might decide whether to take the case. But since the court's session ends shortly, a decision is not likely before the new term opens in October.
Microsoft argues that the case is inappropriate for immediate Supreme Court review. But Richard E. Donovan, who is head of the antitrust and trade practice at the New York law firm of Kelley Drye & Warren, noted that when Congress revised the law in 1974, the intent was to invoke it when the issues in question were "the immediate economic impact of the case rather than on the significance of the legal issues presented."
Microsoft has repeatedly argued that Judge Jackson's remedy "could have a significant adverse impact on the nation's economy."
Mr. Donovan also noted that the federal government, "through the attorney general and the solicitor general, supports a direct appeal," and "the Supreme Court tends to accord substantial weight to their opinions in such matters."
In its brief filed earlier today, the government told Judge Jackson that Microsoft's effort to avert a direct appeal "misstates and misapplies the appropriate legal standard for certification and ignores the incontrovertible importance of prompt resolution of this case to consumers and the national economy." Apparently Judge Jackson agreed.
Microsoft tried to outmaneuver Judge Jackson and the Justice Department by filing a part of its appeal with the Court of Appeals last week, before the government had a chance to file its direct-appeal request.
The appeals court eagerly accepted the case, and even laid out an aggressive schedule for hearing it, but also made clear that the schedule would be suspended as soon as Judge Jackson sent the case to the Supreme Court. When he did so today, the appeals court stood down.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SUPREME COURT (US); MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SUPREME COURT (US); MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; STATES (US); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL; JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE) THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



525 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Spurned Sudan, Looking for Foreign Support, Says It Has Changed

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 20

 BODY:
Sudan, joining a growing list of pariah nations, is trying to create a new image for itself by engaging more positively with the world, the Sudanese ambassador to the United Nations said today.
Sudan's immediate goals are ambitious. It is seeking African support for a regional seat on the Security Council beginning next year. It is also lining up international backing for a lifting of sanctions imposed four years ago when Sudan was accused of harboring suspects in an attempted assassination of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. 
 Both intentions present problems for the United States, which keeps Sudan on its list of nations supporting international terrorism because, the Clinton administration says, the Sudanese government maintains links with Osama bin Laden, a financier of Islamic militancy.
Diplomats say the United States has been working behind the scenes to persuade other African nations to deny the Sudanese one of the council's seats, which are rotated within regions. Some African envoys say the Americans have suggested that if Sudan withdraws its request for a seat, Washington may look more favorably on other issues involving Sudan, though no promises have been made about sanctions.
American diplomats and Sudan's ambassador, Elfatih Mohamed Ahmed Erwa, deny that any direct talks have taken place between them. In an interview, Mr. Erwa said that no deal would be possible because Sudan would lose all credibility among Africans if it backed down.
"We are not battling against the United States," Mr. Erwa said. "Does the United States decide who goes to the Security Council or not?"
Rather, he said, Sudan's president, Omar el-Bashir, has taken steps that demand a new look at Sudan.
In recent months, President Bashir has sidelined Hassan al-Turabi, a powerful Islamic politician with whom he had shared power for years. The move, other diplomats say, could be risky because Mr. Turabi commanded a significant following. The government has also made some gestures toward negotiating an end to a destructive civil war with Christians and African traditionalists in the south who have refused to accept the Islamic government.
"The U.S. wants to see a change of behavior," Mr. Erwa said. "We think in Sudan there has been lots of change of behavior."
The Sudanese, in a letter to the Security Council this month, said that sanctions imposed in 1996, a year after the attack on Mr. Mubarak, were no longer relevant because Sudan had reached an agreement with Egypt, the aggrieved party, and Ethiopia, where the attack took place. Both accepted Sudan's argument that the suspects were no longer in Sudan, where they were believed to have hidden, and that the government had tried to find them.
Diplomats say it will be hard for the United States to indefinitely block a council resolution lifting sanctions because they were applied largely on Egypt's behalf. The sanctions, including diplomatic curbs on Sudanese officials abroad and an embargo on Sudanese flights, were not strictly enforced, diplomats say.
When Washington attacked a pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum in August 1998, the strike was not related to United Nations sanctions but was in retaliation for what Americans said were Sudanese links to terrorists whom Washington held responsible for the bombing of its embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (95%); AFRICA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS MOHAMED AHMED MODAWI (55%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN; EGYPT; SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (95%); AFRICA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; EGYPT-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SUDAN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); RELIGION (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (74%); 

PERSON: MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES); CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BIN LADEN, OSAMA OSAMA BIN LADEN (86%); HOSNI MUBARAK (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



526 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush Proposes $2.3 Billion for Math and Science Teaching

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: CUPERTINO, Calif., June 20

 BODY:
In an area often regarded as the cradle of the digital revolution, Gov. George W. Bush warned today that American schoolchildren were not being adequately prepared for the demands of jobs in high technology, and he proposed spending an additional $2.3 billion over five years in federal funds to improve math and science education in public schools.
"I know we can do better," Mr. Bush told educators at De Anza College here in the heart of the Silicon Valley. The Texas governor frequently cited tests of children in 21 countries, including the United States, as yardsticks of just how much room for improvement there was. 
 "This is America," Mr. Bush said. "There's no reason for us to be next to last in math. There's no reason for us to be last in physics. We're the greatest country in the world. We ought to be first."
Beyond those exhortations to greatness, however, Mr. Bush talked little about the proposals he was making, which were spelled out instead in documents distributed by his aides. These plans were the latest in a series of education initiatives that Mr. Bush has made over the last three months, and they reflected his focus on education as an issue with which he can appeal to moderate voters.
Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, called for the federal government to spend an additional $1 billion over five years on the establishment of a Math and Science Partnership Fund to encourage universities and colleges to interact with public schools in ways that enhanced math and science instruction for children in kindergarten through the 12th grade.
Mr. Bush proposed an additional $1 billion over five years to increase the value of the federal Pell grants that are given to low-income students to defray the cost of college education. Under the governor's plan, young people who have taken college-level math or science courses in high school can qualify for a grant that would be worth an additional $1,000. The average Pell grant, Mr. Bush's aides said, is worth about $3,000.
Finally, Mr. Bush called for an additional $345 million over five years to encourage college graduates who majored in science or math to spend at least five years teaching in public schools in needy areas. Under current federal programs, graduates who do this can have $5,000 of their student loans forgiven or paid by the federal government. Mr. Bush would expand this amount to $17,500.
But the governor was not merely articulating new policy today; he was spending time in a state that has tilted heavily Democratic over the last few years, but that he does not want to cede to Vice President Al Gore in the general election.
California has more electoral votes, 54, than any other state, and Mr. Bush's trip here this week, which began on Monday and is scheduled to end on Wednesday, was his fourth swing through the state since the primary here on March 7.
A statewide poll conducted by the Field organization and made public today showed Mr. Bush trailing Mr. Gore by 11 points, 46 percent to 35 percent, but several previous polls have portrayed a tighter race. Several times this week, Mr. Bush insisted that he could compete successfully in California by appealing to Hispanic voters, promoting his education plans and convincing people in the Silicon Valley that his economic and trade policies would benefit them.
Although Mr. Bush would describe himself as a fiscal conservative, he has proposed spending billions of dollars in new federal money for education since the campaign began. Mr. Gore has proposed spending an even larger amount, and one of the educators with whom Mr. Bush met here today seemed to suggest that Mr. Bush could be more generous.
In a decidedly unscripted moment, Barbara Illowsky, a math professor at De Anza College, told Mr. Bush that it would be terrific if he "were able to raise as much money for education" as he had for his presidential campaign and the Republican Party.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush and his wife, Laura, yesterday at a forum on technology at De Anza College in Cupertino, Calif. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MATH&SCIENCE PARTNERSHIP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; MATHEMATICS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ELECTION ISSUES MATHEMATICS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BRUNI, FRANK GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



527 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AFRICA;
STRONG RESULTS AT DE BEERS

BYLINE: By Henri E. Cauvin 

 BODY:
The selling arm of South Africa's De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's leading miner and purveyor of diamonds, reported a 44 percent increase in sales for the first half of 2000, to $3.5 billion. Strong economic growth in the United States, the biggest market for precious stones, was a major contributor to the increase. De Beers, which has long dominated the diamond industry, is facing increased competition and new attention to the role diamonds play in driving armed conflicts, particularly in Africa. Henri E. Cauvin 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DBRSY (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (95%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (95%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD DE BEERS SA (95%); DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; SALES; MINES AND MINING SALES FIGURES (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E HENRI E CAUVIN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



528 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Oil Ministers Might Agree On Small RiseIn Production

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
OPEC ministers meeting today in Vienna are expected to agree on a modest production increase, but the move is unlikely to bring much relief to American gasoline consumers who are paying more than $2 a gallon in some regions.
"If U.S. consumers are looking to the OPEC meeting as some kind of salvation from gas prices this summer, they will be very disappointed," said Raad Alkadiri, an analyst with the Petroleum Finance Corporation, a consulting group in Washington. 
 Oil ministers arriving for their meeting in Vienna today said they were confident they would reach an agreement quickly, and a consensus appears to have formed around an increase of 500,000 barrels a day, or about 2 percent of current output. Such an increase has the support not only of Saudi Arabia, the most influential OPEC member, but also the support of Iran, which angrily rebelled at a production increase three months ago.
But the ministers of Algeria and Qatar said in preparing for the Vienna meeting that there was no shortage of oil in the world, apparently suggesting that raising output by that much is not necessary. Oil prices, which have surged in recent weeks, rose further today on the conflicting messages.
In the supply-and-demand balance, most people have focused on the supply side ever since crude prices began climbing last year. Understandably so, because a decision by OPEC in early 1999 to cut supply led to a sharp rebound in oil prices, driving them to more than $30 a barrel by this spring.
In March, under heavy pressure by the United States and other industrialized countries that import petroleum, OPEC decided to increase production by 1.7 million barrels a day, or about 7 percent, to about 24.7 million barrels a day. Crude prices initially dipped, only to surpass the $30 mark once again in the last few weeks, despite estimates by many analysts that OPEC is already pumping about 500,000 barrels more than it had agreed upon three months ago. At the same time, average United States gasoline prices have risen sharply, up nearly 13 percent since late April, according to the Department of Energy. They show no sign of easing just as the summer driving season is starting.
In the Great Lakes region, where gasoline costs more than $2 a gallon, consumer anger has led to federal inquiries into possible price gouging by area refineries.
Even at such levels, gasoline prices adjusted for inflation are still lower than they were for most of the century up to 1968, according to a recent study by Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
"But this is a price that people very easily get very angry about," said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy.
OPEC leaders like the Saudis have intimated that they, like much of the rest of the world, are uncomfortable with current high crude prices. If prices stay above $30 for a long time, that could hurt the economies of affluent oil-consuming countries and even lead to a recession, which would hurt OPEC as much as anyone else.
But any OPEC increase in output would deal only with the supply side of the equation. Worldwide demand for oil, driven by the robust American economy and strengthening recoveries in Asia and Europe, continues to grow and quickly absorb OPEC supply increases.
For example, United States refineries that distill crude, the first step in making gasoline, are operating at 94 percent of capacity, which is considered high. And despite persistent complaints about inflationary gasoline prices, Americans have yet to curtail their driving, AAA, the former American Automobile Association, has reported.
The relentless demand for petroleum in the United States may, in fact, be a principal reason for the rise in crude prices.
The Chicago area, where gasoline has risen to $2.50 a gallon at some stations in recent days, illustrates how prices and crude oil production are not directly related.
The stage for the run-up was set in late winter, when refineries typically acquire crude to meet high gasoline demand over the summer. A heating oil crisis compelled some United States refineries to keep producing heating oil rather than shifting to gasoline.
While crude was expensive at the time, market prices for oil to be delivered in later months was decreasing. So rather than replenishing their inventories at the higher prices, many refineries bought crude for delivery later at the lower prices, something of a "just in time" strategy.
Consequently, inventories of gasoline are now unusually low across the country, with stocks in the week ending June 9 totaling 202.7 million gallons, compared with 223.5 million last year, according to the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group.
Drawing on lower-than-usual inventories, Great Lakes refineries now must produce a reformulated gasoline that burns cleaner in adherence with the latest Environmental Protection Agency regulations. Because of how this gasoline is made, refineries produce less of it than they do of conventional gasoline.
Gasoline supplies in the Great Lakes fell even lower when a pipeline that feeds oil from the Gulf Coast to the region's refineries broke down in the spring. That pipeline is still operating at only 80 percent capacity, according to the American Petroleum Institute.
The E.P.A. contends that its requirements for reformulated gasoline do not contribute to higher fuel prices. But AAA has asked the agency to suspend reformulated gasoline requirements for parts of the country, including the Midwest, for most of the summer because the cleaner-burning fuel costs so much.
"Reformulated gasoline is a premium product and tighter requirements mean it will be more expensive," said George Beranek, an expert on refining at the Petroleum Finance Corporation. "You can't mandate improvement and expect it to be free."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Chicago, as in other regions in the U.S., gasoline consumers are paying more than $2 a gallon. (Reuters)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "COMMODITIES"
 
Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); ALGERIA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) IHS INC (61%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; IRAN; UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); ALGERIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); ENERGY RESEARCH (65%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



529 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2019 words

HEADLINE: THE OTHER ECONOMY: A Plan, a Canal Town;
A Canal Town's Existential Crisis

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

DATELINE: CLYDE, N.Y.

 BODY:
Sitting in Pete's Diner, talking about his beloved hometown, Kenneth DiSanto makes the plan sounds plausible, even probable. Of course this forlorn little village will transform itself from plain old Clyde, smack in the middle of nowhere, to Clyde-on-the-Erie, historic site and tourist magnet.
Step outside onto Glasgow Street, however, and the obstacles to that plan become plain. 
 Just for starters, you cannot actually get to the Erie Canal from three-block-long downtown Clyde. Railroad tracks run between the water and the village; freight cars rumble through every 20 minutes or so. Nor can you get from the canal into Clyde; the only dock, on the far side of a big, ugly bridge, cannot accommodate anything much bigger than a rowboat.
Nevertheless, Clyde, halfway between Rochester and Syracuse, is pinning its hopes for the future on the canal that first gave it life back in the 1820's.
So are dozens of other communities in upstate New York. They are being egged on by the federal government, which since 1996 has been pushing a "canal corridor initiative" to redevelop the historic canal for tourism and recreation -- and has given out almost $240 million in grants and loans to help pay for the efforts.
"Nobody wants to live in a chapter in a history book," said Andrew Cuomo, the secretary of housing and urban development (and a possible future candidate for governor of New York). But, he said, remaking and marketing the canal will promote "tourism, jobs, energy and optimism, and the quality of life of the locale."
Across New York State, there are hundreds of villages and towns of 1,000 or 2,000 or 3,000 souls, stranded in history as well as geography. Places that once had a reason for being -- a railroad stop, a turnpike gate, a waterfall to drive a mill -- are struggling to survive in the age of the Internet.
In Clyde, "our game plan has been to find a reason for existence," said Mr. DiSanto, who is, among other things, chairman of the village's Industrial Development Corporation.
That makes Clyde similar to many upstate communities, said Susan Christopherson, a professor of urban planning at Cornell University who has studied the canal redevelopment program. So does its separation from the canal itself. "In many cases, it ran adjacent to the downtown business district," she said. "It wasn't directly connected to downtown."
Some communities along the canal are more prosperous than Clyde, and more urban; many in western Wayne County, for example, where Clyde is located, have become suburbs of Rochester. But "Clyde is fairly typical of most rural downtowns" in central New York, said Barbara Harper, director of the Wayne County Economic Development Authority.
Which means that there is not a whole lot here: Pete's, of course, and the Trackside Deli, a Key Bank branch, antiques shops and a cute little flower shop. For shopping there's a hardware store, the Clyde Bargain Center and Messinger's Variety Store, an old-fashioned five-and-dime that sells housedresses and hairnets when its 91-year-old proprietor can make it to the cash register.
Clyde has a leafy little town green, too, with a bandstand and fountain. You have to look closely to realize that the statue of George Washington has lost its nose, or that the fancy little roof on wooden supports labeled "Clyde's Famous Mineral Spring" covers only a pipe with a soda can smashed into it.
It's hard to say exactly how many people still live in Clyde. Locals put the population at 2,400, but last year's Census Bureau estimate is about half that. In any event, Clyde is so small it has only one telephone exchange, and people tend to identify themselves by the year they graduated from Clyde-Savannah High.
And for some of those people, the canal remains a real part of life, even today. Take Brian Howell, who worked on the last steam-powered vessel to ply the Erie. That was only 15 years ago -- and Mr. Howell, who works for the State Canal Corporation, is only 34 (class of 1984).
At one time, the canal was all the reason Clyde needed for being. When the canal opened in 1825, it provided for the first time transportation through the spine of mountains that runs down the eastern United States -- and that today seems such an insignificant barrier. Wheat could come east, widgets could go west, and people could move both ways, on barges drawn by mules.
Clyde was the first stop for westbound barges that had pushed for hours through the malaria-infested Montezuma Swamp. Not surprisingly, mule drivers got off to have a drink in one of Clyde's taverns.
There were shoe shops and clothing shops, and, in time, a fancy hotel, a racetrack, two newspapers, two train stations, three graveyards, at least four churches and a home-grown marching band. The biggest house in town belonged to the owner of the glass factory, which turned out handmade Mason jars.
The railroad brought Abraham Lincoln, who in 1861 spoke a few sentences to a crowd gathered in Clyde. In the 1880's, it brought the Italian workers whose names are now borne by almost everyone in town.
Throughout the first half of the 20th century, Clyde continued to prosper. "If I had to be transported back in time, it would be to the 1930's," said R. Hugh Miner, the town historian and publisher of the monthly Crossroads Advocate. In this agricultural area, even the Great Depression was not so bad, he said, "and this was a very close-knit community."
Just ask George L. Storto, who says he is related to everyone in town (his father owned an ice cream parlor). A member of the Clyde-Savannah High class of 1948, Mr. Storto left Clyde in 1957 and ended up in Arizona, working for a big insurance company. And he married a woman from Tennessee.
"She said, 'Someday you have to show me that little town you're from, because you talk about it and dream about it,' " Mr. Storto said. In 1995, he and his wife came back to Clyde. "And I know I'm staying here," he said, "because my wife said we need to buy a couple of plots at the cemetery."
Mr. Storto is part of what may be Clyde's secret weapon: a group of well-traveled, well-to-do retirees who are determined to save the place they still love. They include Mr. Di Santo and Richard DeVito, who both retired from Xerox, and Rudolph A. DeLisio, who retired from General Electric (classes of '56, '51 and '41, respectively).
They knew Clyde before the G.E. plant closed and eliminated 350 jobs in the early 1960's. Even though some other businesses have moved in -- Parker Hannifin, which makes industrial hydraulic equipment, and Thomas Electronics each employ well over 100 people -- Clyde seemed to lose something, they said.
Property values fell, absentee landlords moved in, and so did a lot of people receiving welfare or disability payments. There is not much for poor or young people to do in Clyde, especially if they don't have cars.
"They really do need to lighten this town up, put in a movie house or a skating rink," said Albert Austin, who lives on Glasgow Street and gets by on Social Security and the money he makes collecting cans and bottles for recycling.
Next door, Tammy Simcerbeaux, an 18-year-old with two small children, agreed. What does she do for fun? "Nothing, really," she said. "It's boring."
Over the years, drugs became a problem. The Chamber of Commerce and other civic organizations dwindled; in 1989, the village even stopped holding its Christmas decoration competition, a staple of small-town life.
But in 1996, things began to change. By a narrow margin, Clyde elected a new mayor, Steven J. Groat, a photographer, who shared many of the retirees' ideas and frustrations. Mr. DeLisio started to revive the Chamber of Commerce, in part by allowing anyone to join.
The retirees formed a sort of Save Clyde Committee, and with Mr. Groat they persuaded a class of landscape architecture students at Cornell to draw up a plan to renovate downtown Clyde. And it began to seem possible that Clyde could serve as an antiques center, a place where people floating down the canal or visiting Montezuma (now a wildlife refuge popular with bird watchers) could browse and buy.
Mr. Groat began applying for government grants and loans, and has brought more than $1 million into Clyde. Some of the money has gone to a new water system; some was to be spent on a new park and dock on the far side of the Erie, which have not yet been started because the bids came in too high.
Meanwhile, the residents of Clyde did a little boot-strapping; 75 of them kicked in $1,000 each toward a limited partnership. The money has gone to buy what the retirees describe as the three worst buildings in town, all on Glasgow Street, and now they are trying to find the cash to renovate the buildings.
Its buildings will help determine whether Clyde succeeds as a Cinderella -- and under all the layers of plastic and aluminum "improvements," they are beautiful. (And cheap.)
Fantastically ornate tin covers 14-foot ceilings in an old drugstore that Kevin Sipple is turning into an elegant antiques shop ("no junk," he said firmly). A 50-year-old retired police officer from outside Rochester, Mr. Sipple is pulling up the tile floor of his 1853 building to expose the tongue-and-groove maple. Upstairs, he has installed a new kitchen and bathroom in a one-bedroom apartment he hopes to rent out.
Down the block, in a building Mr. DiSanto owns, is a similar tin ceiling, as well as an elaborately paneled and mirrored wall dating to the days when the place was Wood's barbershop. For the past year, Darrell Marriott, a 35-year-old former quarterback at Clyde-Savannah High, has been running the Olde Erie Hair Shoppe there, giving $8 haircuts.
Mr. DiSanto owns another building, the old Stoetzel's bakery, and has restored the huge brick oven in the back room, hoping to turn the place into a restaurant. The upper two floors (which would make even Brooklyn brownstone dwellers envious) may someday become a bed and breakfast. Right now, Clyde lacks even a motel.
Another construction project may soon begin a few blocks away, where the town historical society plans to turn the old Baptist church facing the park into a new museum and meeting hall. (The old museum, a former feed mill by the railroad tracks, is open only two afternoons a week in July and August, and in any event looks like someone's attic).
These developments may seem minor, but they have not been embraced by everyone. Mr. Groat, 48,gave up the mayor's office to run for county legislator but lost; his efforts to enforce zoning and building codes made him unpopular in some quarters. And he admits that he and the retirees may have tried to change too much, too soon. "Trying to do something here is difficult," he said. "I don't want to say that I shoved it down their throats, but I did."
Thomas Caprilla, the new mayor -- who was also mayor before Mr. Groat -- said residents were not opposed to the redevelopment plan, but worried that it might increase their taxes, or change the nature of the village. "As much as people want to see the canal improved," he said, "they're afraid of a flock of tourists coming to Clyde."
That does not seem to be a looming problem. More pleasure boats are using the lock near Clyde -- traffic rose by 8 percent between 1997 and 1999 -- but fewer than 1,100 cruised through last year. And while Mr. DiSanto's Industrial Development Corporation has lured several small businesses -- and about 30 jobs -- to Clyde in the last four years, they are in manufacturing, not tourism.
But those job gains may not be unrelated to Clyde's improvements. Professor Christopherson is working on a new study for the federal government that suggests that improving amenities for tourists may also draw other kinds of businesses looking for good recreational opportunities for their employees.
In Clyde, anyway, jobs sometime seem beside the point. What people keep coming back to is the search for a reason for being. As Mr. Miner, the historian, puts it, "The whole idea of the Erie Canal for us is that we're hoping to regain some identity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On a recent Friday in Clyde, Darrell Marriott cut the hair of Keith Austin; Van Gorton, right, and John Henninger rode their bicycles; and Kenneth DiSanto, center, talked with Richard DeVito, left, and Rudolph A. DeLisio at Pete's Diner.; Railroad tracks and the Erie Canal divide the village of Clyde, in central New York. Residents hoping to revive Clyde look to its past as a stop for barges that plied the canal. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B1); R. Hugh Miner, the town historian, in the Clyde museum, open only on weekends in July and August.; Tammy Simcerbeaux, with 7-month-old Taylor, calls Clyde "boring." (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of New York shows location of Erie Canal. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); CLYDE BARGAIN CENTER (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLYDE BARGAIN CENTER (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLYDE (NY); ERIE CANAL (NYS); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TOURISM (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); HISTORY (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); TRENDS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); GOVERNORS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE ANDREW CUOMO (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



530 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2054 words

HEADLINE: Lung Cancer Test Is Much in Demand, But Benefit Is Murky

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
When word got out recently that two radiology centers in Portland, Ore., were offering a new screening test for the early detection of lung cancer, the response was overwhelming. Smokers and former smokers jammed the centers' phones, demanding the simple, painless test that can find lung cancers so tiny that they can be snipped out and, doctors hope, the patients cured.
In a single day, more than 300 people called one of the centers, Epic Imaging. "I got in at 6:30 that morning and didn't get off the phone until 6:30 that night," said Melanie Haymond, a marketing director there. 
 Drawn by newspaper articles and Epic's brochures describing the test as "fast, inexpensive, lifesaving," patients readily agreed to Epic's $295 fee, even though the test is not covered by most health insurance policies because it is considered experimental. They even agreed to pay half of the money at the time of the test, as Epic required.
Such responses are being repeated throughout the country as more and more radiologists begin advertising the lung cancer screening test. The procedure is done with a powerful new X-ray machine, a spiral CT scanner, which can detect tumors many times smaller than those found with a conventional chest X-ray.
Cancer experts agree that there is an urgent need to improve the prospects for patients with lung cancer.
But it is unclear whether more people will be harmed than helped by the test because the scanner's effectiveness has never been rigorously tested. One early study has found that 9 of every 10 patients who have suspicious test findings will not have cancer -- but they will have to have additional expensive tests, and sometimes surgery, to find that out. For the rest there are three possibilities. Some may be cured when surgeons snip out their tumors. Others may have tumors that may turn out not to have been dangerous after all, but they still would have undergone treatments as though their lives were threatened. And still others may have tiny tumors that turn out to be incurable despite the treatments.
These are questions that researchers say are going to occur more often as science is rapidly making it possible to find a variety of diseases at earlier and earlier stages.
Lung cancer is the nation's leading cause of cancer deaths, killing about 157,000 Americans every year, more than colon, breast, prostate and uterine cancers combined. Lung cancer is diagnosed in about 164,000 people each year, but the five-year survival rate is just 14 percent -- virtually the same as it was 30 years ago.
The earlier that diseases are found, the less that is known about their likely course and the more difficult the questions. Molecular tests are being developed for bladder cancer and colon cancer, for example, that would look for individual genes that go awry, long before any tumors are evident. Scientists are working on scanning tests for early Alzheimer's disease and on ever more precise ways of finding very early breast cancer.
But seldom have the stakes been so high and the choices so stark as with the new lung cancer test. The cost of testing all current and former smokers with the lung scanner would be immense -- more than $39 billion, according to the National Cancer Institute. Yet if the test works, it could save hundreds of thousands of lives and alleviate terrible suffering.
"It has become a huge debate," said Dr. Jonathan Goldin, a radiologist at the University of California in Los Angeles. "There's an academic interest, there's a health policy interest, there's a highly emotional desire to do good for patients. And then there's an economic interest -- you can make a fair amount of money right now if you opened up a spiral scanner and said, 'Let's go for it.' "
 
Is Early Detection Good?
The idea of using the spiral CT scanners to find early lung cancers began with an iconoclast, Dr. Claudia L. Henschke, the division chief of chest imaging at Weill Cornell Medical Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She knew that most scientists dismissed lung cancer screening as useless. Doctors could find the cancer early with chest X-rays. But studies indicated that the lives of these patients had not been prolonged.
Dr. Henschke wondered whether advances in technology might have changed the prospects for lung cancer screening. A new generation of X-ray machines, the spiral CT, or computerized tomography, scanners, could show nodules as small as the diameter of a soda straw, compared with the the quarter-size tumors that were seen with chest X-rays. Could it be, Dr. Henschke asked, that the spiral scanners, already widely used by radiologists, could find lung cancers so early that they could be cured?
That was in 1991. "No one was willing to talk about it," Dr. Henschke said. "They said it's a dead issue."
Despite the skeptics, Dr. Henschke organized a study of 1,000 smokers and former smokers, examining each person's lungs with both spiral CT scans and with conventional chest X-rays and comparing what the two machines found. When the radiologists saw very small nodules, they asked the patients to come back in a few months to see if the nodules were growing. If a nodule grew, patients needed more tests, sometimes involving surgery, to see if it was cancerous.
With the spiral CT scans, 23 percent of the people had suspicious nodules but only 2.7 percent of them turned out to have cancer. Almost all the tumors were in Stage 1, meaning they had not yet spread. Chest X-rays found suspicious nodules in 7 percent of the people but only 0.7 percent of them had cancer. Half of the tumors were in Stage 1. The rest were more advanced.
Dr. Henschke's paper was published in a British medical journal, The Lancet, last July 10 and reported widely in the news media, setting off a groundswell of demand for the test because she showed that lung cancer could be detected early, and a rush by radiologists to offer it.
At Cornell, Dr. Henschke said, smokers and former smokers mobbed the hospital lobby, refusing to leave without spiral CT scanning tests. Over the next six months, radiologists across the country began advertising the scanning tests for lung cancer.
The University Radiology Group in New Brunswick, N.J., began advertising its $295 test on the radio and in newspapers in December, drawing 200 patients. "We already had the scanner, so it was not a big deal," said Dr. Judith Korek Amorosa, a radiologist there.
The Arizona Heart Institute in Phoenix began advertising its $500 test in December, bringing in 300 people so far, said Jeannie Swindle, the vice president for marketing there. The institute even offers specials, such as the one it had in May, when it reduced its price by more than $100, Ms. Swindle said.
Many who had the lung scans were delighted. Kenneth MacWilliams, a 63-year-old investment banker in Dumont, N.J., went to Dr. Henschke's office for a test last year because he had breathed other peoples' smoke at work. His scan showed no signs of tumors.
"There is absolutely no downside for me," Mr. MacWilliams said. "Why would I not want to do this?"
But as the lung scans are being promoted, one gap in the logic remains. Dr. Henschke's study had shown that spiral CT scanners could find tiny lung cancers. What it did not show was whether finding them saved lives. And that is fueling the bitter debate over how much evidence of that is necessary.
"It's the fundamental question," said Dr. David F. Yankelevitz, Dr. Henschke's colleague at Cornell. "These are critical issues, and it's a discussion that needs to happen."
 
A Questionable Study
Dr. Henschke cannot convince herself that there is much more to ask. She knows the hypothetical problems with early detection, but she does not believe they apply to lung cancer.
"Logically, we know you can cure cancer only when you get it at an early stage," Dr. Henschke said. "CT gets it much much earlier. The only thing that has to be documented is how many lives are saved."
The orthodox way to find out is to randomly assign patients to have the lung scanning test, or not, and then compare outcomes. If more people die in the unscreened group, it can be concluded that the test is saving lives.
But, Dr. Henschke asks, how many people are going to enroll in such a study? Who would forgo a simple, painless test that could find cancer early? And even if people did agree, would they hold off having a lung scan for more than a decade while the study wound its way to a conclusion?
"Down the line, more and more people are going to be convinced" of the effectiveness of the test, Dr. Henschke said. "What do you do when your neighbor has a CT scan and it detects a nodule and the nodule is cured?"
So what Dr. Henschke is planning is almost scientific apostasy -- a study in which everyone gets a CT scan.
The researchers will use statistical analyses to decide how much better people fared than they would have if they had not received the screening test.
Dr. Henschke said she could not conduct the study any other way. She said she had seen too many patients with tiny cancerous tumors that were removed and did not return, and too many who had no screening and whose tumors were found too late. She could not conceive of waiting well over a decade for a randomized clinical trial to enroll patients, screen them and follow them as the study wound to a close.
"How many lives will you be losing?" Dr. Henschke said. "If there are 160,000 people who die from lung cancer each year, you could save a lot of lives during that trial -- certainly over 100,000 from my best estimate," she said, calculating what she thought would be the number of lives saved over the course of the 10-year study.
 
Need for Answers
Dr. Barnett Kramer of the National Institutes of Health, knows the emotional pull of patients' stories, and he knows that when it comes to arguing about lung cancer scans, he is at a disadvantage. He does not do the scans and must rely instead on cold logic and reasoning. But he does look at data, and at recent medical history. And he is very worried about the rapid spread of spiral CT screening for lung cancer.
Dr. Kramer remembers the last time that doctors thought they had a way of preventing lung cancer deaths. During the 1960's and 1970's, many recommended that smokers and former smokers have regular X-rays, and some also ordered tests of their sputum to look for cancer.
Finally, researchers managed to do large clinical trials that asked whether such screenings saved lives. The results were eye-opening. Although more cancers were found in the screened group, and at earlier stages, the screenings did nothing to cut the death rate from lung cancer.
In 1989, Dr. David Eddy, who is an independent consultant and an adviser to Kaiser Permanente, Southern California, summed up the situation in a paper in the Annals of Internal Medicine. "It is important to emphasize that these conclusions are not based on a lack of evidence of an effect," Dr. Eddy wrote, "but are based on good evidence that there is no effect."
For Dr. Kramer, it was a valuable lesson.
"This is the classic case," Dr. Kramer said. "You were picking up cancers that would not have killed the patients, and you were curing people who did not need to be cured. In exchange you were doing a lot more surgery."
The cancer institute hopes to do a large definitive study involving at least 20,000 people who would be randomly assigned to have a CT scan or, for comparison, to forgo it.
Dr. Kramer is optimistic that once the uncertainties of the lung scan are explained, people will volunteer for the study.
For now, medical experts said, the nation is poised at a critical moment when a decision on how to proceed can reverberate for years to come.
"Certainly, there is no question that spiral CT is a promising technology," said Dr. Paul S. Frame, a family practitioner in Cohocton, N.Y., who is reviewing the scanner as a member of the United States Preventive Services Task Force, which makes recommendations on screenings. "But the fear and the caution is that our society is geared to like miracles. And when somebody mentions a miracle, nobody wants to wait around and see if it's true. That's the dilemma we're in."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Claudia L. Henschke of the Weill Cornell Medical Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital urges the use of a computerized scanner that she says can find lung cancers earlier than conventional chest X-rays. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (89%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); OREGON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (89%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CANCER; X-RAYS; SCANNING DEVICES; LUNGS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TESTS AND TESTING; RESEARCH CANCER (96%); LUNG CANCER (94%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (92%); RADIOLOGY (91%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); SMOKING (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING CENTERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); CARCINOGENS (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); SMOKING CESSATION (77%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (73%); CANCER OF THE UTERUS (73%); BLADDER CANCER (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (68%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (66%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA; HENSCHKE, CLAUDIA L (DR) CLAUDIA L HENSCHKE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000



531 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 16; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: REVIEW;
Accusing Silicon Valley of a Heart of Coal

BYLINE: By LISA GUERNSEY 

 BODY:

CYBERSELFISH: A CRITICAL
ROMP THROUGH THE
TERRIBLY LIBERTARIAN
CULTURE OF HIGH-TECH
By Paulina Borsook
(Public Affairs, $24.)
PAULINA BORSOOK is fed up with Silicon Valley. But the area's instant millionaires and outrageously priced houses are not the reason for her fuming. It is the ideology behind the technology industry that really has her miffed.
Those emotions come screeching through in Ms. Borsook's book, "Cyberselfish: A Critical Romp Through the Terribly Libertarian Culture of High-Tech." 
 Ms. Borsook, a journalist and former contributing writer for Wired magazine, has written an irreverent (and sometimes incomprehensible) rant on what she sees as the hypocrisy of today's technology leaders. They don't like big government, they don't like regulation, and they wish that Uncle Sam would just leave them and their market-driven economy alone.
Yet, as Ms. Borsook points out over and over again, government money and federal regulations have made Silicon Valley what it is today. Federal grants sponsored university research that has been translated into scores of Internet and computer products. Regulations have ensured that the banking system is "relatively fraud free." And the defense industry, don't forget, brought the Internet into existence in the first place.
"Government," she writes, "has made Silicon Valley a fine and dandy, safe and regularized place to make scads of money." Internet moguls who do not realize this, Ms. Borsook writes, are nothing better than "privileged spoiled teenagers." To those who are tired of the hype emanating from Northern California in the past five years, the Bay Area bashing in "Cyberselfish" may be a welcome relief.
The book also presents an insider's view of how high-tech culture has evolved in the past decade. Ms. Borsook, who lives in Santa Cruz, has been observing and interacting for years with the area's computer programmers, software engineers, cryptographers and venture capitalists. One chapter focuses on Wired and the personalities that gave the magazine its libertarian bent. The chapter also reveals some of the frustration felt by women who wrote for Wired in the mid 1990's, women who bemoaned how a magazine that considered itself in the vanguard could in fact be nothing more than a geek's twist on the old boy network.
But if you plan to accompany Ms. Borsook on this 256-page romp, be prepared to take a deep breath. Reading the book is like charging blindly through an obstacle course. Paragraphs are filled with so many asides, hyphenated words, parenthetical clauses, dashes and asterisks that you are left virtually panting at the end of each sentence. That is, if you get to the end of the sentences at all.
Here, for example, is Ms. Borsook's argument against a free-market society in which feeble people are pushed aside without any consideration of their potential as creative human beings:
"The hypersensitive maladaptive no-commercial-potential individuals, the runts of the litter, and the defective members of the species can -- because as humans and not planaria we can value things not just of momentary food/shelter/mate-status-enhancing enticement -- create the best of what makes us remotely human."
Have you given up yet?
Her arguments, too, require some patience. The apparent selfishness of the technology community is at the heart of the book, so Ms. Borsook tries to paint a picture of dot-com billionaires keeping all their money to themselves. Yet in reviewing data on philanthropy in Silicon Valley, she leaves questions dangling and relies on what seems to be less-than-rigorous research.
For example, she writes that in the mid-1990's, the percentage of corporate profits devoted to corporate philanthropy in Silicon Valley dropped. But she quotes statistics collected in 1997 and earlier. What has happened in the past three years, when many companies became even more flush? If recent statistics were not available, surely an analysis of companies' annual reports could have helped fill in the blanks.
The drop also raises questions. Ms. Borsook writes that 1.14 percent of profits in 1993, and 0.92 percent in 1997, were used for philanthropy. That does not sound like a steep decline, but there is no way to imagine otherwise because readers are given no points of comparison in other industries.
It turns out, in fact, that corporate contributions, as a share of earnings, have been declining for a few decades among United States companies. Data from The Conference Board, a nonprofit research group, shows that the numbers dropped from 2.36 percent in 1986, the highest percentage in the past 50 years, to 1.1 percent in 1997. So, yes, Silicon Valley companies look slightly stingier, but the drop may be the result of larger national trends not related to libertarianism, like the research group's finding that companies are starting to give more non-cash gifts.
Ms. Borsook makes other arguments that sound more solid. The software industry, she writes, often congratulates itself for donating thousands of packages of software to schools and nonprofit groups. Yet the donations are often no more than marketing drives that come with a bonus: they provide companies with useful tax deductions.
Beyond the impossible sentences and undeveloped arguments, the book does raise broader questions that are worth asking about the libertarianism of the high-tech industry. If the ideology behind American corporations becomes more and more libertarian, if voters agree that Internet companies should be left alone and then decide to apply that concept to other corporate interests, what does that mean for the social institutions that make up our communities? Will people turn further and further away from schools, from hospitals, from less-than-computer-literate people who need a hand?
Ms. Borsook does not have the answers. But at least she raises the questions. "We can only marvel," she writes, "and be afraid."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CYBERFISH (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BOOKS AND LITERATURE INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); WOMEN (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LITERATURE (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ENGINEERING (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (66%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (52%); CRYPTOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: GUERNSEY, LISA; BORSOOK, PAULINA PAULINA BORSOOK (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



532 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 4; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE SHOPPER;
A Place to Peek Into Lost Luggage

BYLINE: By Michelle Slatalla; E-mail address: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE last time I was waiting for my luggage at the airport, I saw a cracked leather valise stuffed so full that it might have actually encased a live pig. The frenzied way someone had wrapped twine around the bulging case suggested a disturbing record of attempted escapes.
But then, as the valise traveled around the baggage carousel, I changed my mind. It must have contained something more valuable: otherwise why bother with those additional strips of electrical tape across the locks? After all the other suitcases had been claimed, I decided that it must have belonged to a smuggler apprehended at the gate before he could reclaim his uncut diamonds. Or ivory tusks. Or unpasteurized French cheese. 
 I am fascinated by the mystery of other people's luggage, especially their unclaimed luggage. The glamour tends to fade if the owner shows up and turns out to be the same man who sat a row ahead in economy and begged the flight attendant for extra salted nuts. But luggage that is never reunited with its owner always contains the thrill of the unknown.
So when I learned last week about an online shopping site called Unclaimedbaggage.com, where you can actually buy the contents of unclaimed suitcases, there was no way I could resist. This was something far more tantalizing than the usual discards at a garage sale or thrift store. Here was a rare legal opportunity to riffle through personal items that still had value to their owners at the time they were separated by chance.
"It's like an archaeological dig in the sense that you see a cross-section of the culture when you open up suitcases: the kinds of clothes people are wearing, the books they're reading, the keepsakes they bought on vacation," said Bryan Owens, the owner of the Unclaimed Baggage Center, which operates both the Web site (www.unclaimedbaggage.com) and a block-long retail store in the Appalachian foothills of Scottsboro, Ala. 'We've been doing this for 30 years, and we have long-term, exclusive contracts with many of the major carriers. It's anything you could imagine, although certain things we don't sell. We have an agreement with the F.D.A. to destroy prescription drugs, for instance."
Recovering from my disappointment over the prescription drugs, I went to the site's Click on the Suitcase feature to learn about some of the more unusual items that Unclaimed Baggage has collected over the years. The list included two that had once concealed rolls of money: a Barbie doll (luckily the buyer's daughter pulled off the head by accident, revealing $500 inside the torso) and a "perfectly ordinary soap on a rope" that had been hollowed out.
I was ready to buy. Judging from the home page, which announced "lost treasures from around the world," Mr. Owens is familiar with the psychology of shoppers like me. The site asked: "What do you imagine a wealthy retired couple might have packed to go to Hawaii? An expensive camera?" What would the finely tailored corporate executive flying back from Moscow have had in his suitcases? An elegant cashmere top coat? Gold cuff links?"
Yes, yes, I thought. That's exactly what I would expect! Forgetting for the moment that most suitcases are more likely to harbor items that fall into less savory categories -- like hair care, underwear and tweezers -- I eagerly clicked on Let's Shop. I arrived at 40 categories of merchandise, from Cigars to Jewelry to Women's Closet, in which a total of 344 different items were offered.
Somebody's used cigars? That brought me up short for the same reasons that are causing goose bumps on your arms right now.
But when I examined the nine items for sale in that category, they didn't look used at all. In fact, they were all new: an unopened five-pack of Muriel Air Tip regulars for $1, a new portable pouch called the Humi to keep cigars fresh for $3, a package of pipe filters for $1.
When I asked Mr. Owens, he acknowledged that most of the items online were new and in fact came from unclaimed shipments of cargo, things like unworn bedroom slippers, brand-new baby bottles and unused film that had been lost in transit. Nothing from that finely tailored corporate executive after all, no suits in the women's closet section and certainly no used Barbies or rope soaps.
Mr. Owens said he thought that it would be unfair to sell online shoppers many used items because it was difficult to examine them closely enough online to determine if they met standards of cleanliness. The FAQ section on the site did pose the pertinent question "Is it clean?" (Answer: the store launders or dry-cleans all applicable articles of clothing.) So while the Internet site does sell some mysteries -- like the 40.95-carat emerald offered for $14,750, which would easily enable you to meet the $25 minimum for Internet purchases -- most of the online offerings betrayed no hint of their owner's personality.
In the end, I decided that the online site was not really a place to shop, but more like one of those mystery bags with a question mark stamped on it that you used to get from a vending machine after you paid 50 cents to take a chance on finding treasure. It was a lot of fun, though, to click on the Peek in the Bag feature and see the receipt from a recent purchase: "Kenneth Cole women's shoes $59.40, novelty birthday candles $1, lefty scissors three at 25 cents each."
No pigs, though.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Sharp)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNCLAIMNEDBAGGAGE.COM

ORGANIZATION: UNCLAIMNEDBAGGAGE.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); ALABAMA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LUGGAGE INTERNET RETAILING (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); AIRLINES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); WEB SITES (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); RETAILERS (71%); ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); CHEESE (54%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (54%); 

PERSON: SLATALLA, MICHELLE; OWENS, BRYAN BRYAN OWENS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



533 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 11; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Sydney Olympics Turns to DNA Ink to Mark Official Souvenirs

BYLINE: By DANIEL SORID 

 BODY:
HIGH technology is nothing new for the Olympics. From finish-line computers to drug tests, the Olympic committee has often been an early adopter. This summer, technology will come into play where it really matters: the sale of souvenirs.
To combat the sale of counterfeit items at the Olympics, the Sydney Olympics organizing committee is using ink containing DNA to mark official merchandise. DNA Technologies of Los Angeles developed the ink, which contains copies of DNA strands from an Australian athlete who has not been identified as well as a chemical that can be easily identified with an optical scanner. 
 DNA Technologies has developed inks, invisible or colored, for about a dozen companies; in some cases, the DNA strands used have come from celebrities.
For the Olympic souvenirs, the special ink is placed either directly on the goods or on a tag attached to them. If an Olympic official suspects that a product is not authentic, the product can be scanned on the spot as a preliminary check. To check the DNA, the product can be sent to the company for an analysis.
Unlike holograms, which can be copied, DNA ink is virtually counterfeit-proof, said Chris Outwater, chief executive of DNA Technologies, because DNA, which contains a person's genetic code, is so complex.
Making the DNA tags is straightforward. According to Mr. Outwater, a DNA sample is taken with either a blood sample or a swab of the mouth, and that DNA is copied many times. Some DNA is kept as an identifier, and some is mixed into the ink to be placed on the merchandise.
"We just need a small fragment," Mr. Outwater said, "to give us enough complexity to stop any counterfeiter or bad person from trying to copy it."
Mr. Outwater said there was one chance in a trillion that a counterfeiter would be able to duplicate a tag because each DNA string used is made up of at least 20 "beads"; each bead can be one of four molecules. Even if counterfeiters knew that the pieces of DNA in the ink were from a particular person's DNA, they would still have to figure out what part of the DNA had been used as a tag. Mr. Outwater gave this analogy: "You're standing out in front of the New York Public Library, and you say to the counterfeiter, 'I'm using one sentence out of one book in that library. You figure it out.' "
Or counterfeiters could presumably clone the DNA in the tags to make their own version of the real ink. But Dr. Rick Tullis, a consultant to the company, said that would not be feasible because the DNA can be treated to make it hard to copy and other pieces of DNA can be included in the solution to foil counterfeiters.
Why go to so much effort? The sale of official merchandise at the Sydney Olympics is expected to reach $36 million, according to the Sydney Olympics organizing committee.
In one example of the severity of the problem with counterfeit products, the Customs Service points out that counterfeit products cost the United States economy around $200 billion a year, more than the annual gross domestic product of Greece.
The technique used by Mr. Outwater's company, which received a contract with the Sydney Olympics organizers in 1998, is not perfected. While the company is making enough DNA tags to mark about 10 million souvenir items for the Olympics, it does not have a handheld device that can verify beyond a doubt that a product is authentic. Authorities doing spot checks of vending areas cannot test for the DNA itself, Mr. Outwater said. To do that, the inspector must send the item to DNA Technologies.
Mr. Outwater says the instant checks have been adequate for the company's customers in the last two years -- no customer has actually sent an item to DNA Technologies for a DNA analysis.
DNA Technologies has made DNA tags for more than just the Olympics. It used DNA tags to mark Mark McGwire's 70th-home-run ball and to protect movie props at Warner Brothers that "tend to walk off the lot," Mr. Outwater said. Warner Brothers hopes that the tags will help the company identify stolen items that are offered for sale.
As more companies turn to the Internet to sell consumer merchandise, there will be a greater push for anti-counterfeit measures like DNA tagging, Mr. Outwater said.
"It's a little more scary to be on the Internet in some virtual store and not know exactly what you're buying," he said. With DNA tags, he contended, "you're going to know that this is an authentic product." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

COMPANY: DNA TECHNOLOGIES INC DNA TECHNOLOGIES (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: DNA TECHNOLOGIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY (AUSTRALIA); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (2000); COUNTERFEIT MERCHANDISE; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SCANNING DEVICES; INK DNA (96%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DNA TESTING (78%); CLONING (76%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (76%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (75%); LIBRARIES (64%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: CHRIS OUTWATER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



534 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS. The euro dropped on mounting expectations that the European Central Bank will leave interest rates unchanged in coming months. In New York, the euro settled at 94.50 cents, down from 95.79 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES EURO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



535 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Nations Cutting Aid to the Jobless, Study Says

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 21

 BODY:
Seventy-five percent of the world's estimated 150 million unemployed workers have no jobless benefits, and even the most generous countries have been cutting assistance to the unemployed, the International Labor Organization said today in its annual assessment of global working conditions.
The authors of the report said the cutbacks represented a significant threat to economic development because they undermined the financial security of employed workers. 
 Worker protection in today's insecure job environment is essential, said Roger Beattie, the report's chief author, "because people who are well protected are far more willing to accept such changes."
Juan Somavia, director general of the Geneva-based I.L.O., said that recalcitrant countries could "eventually suffer a destructive backlash."
The United Nations agency's World Labor Report 2000 said workers in Europe enjoy the most generous unemployment benefits, but even its wealthy countries reduced them in the 1990's.
The United States also trimmed benefits, and has slipped in a ranking of which countries offer the most generous worker protection, the study reported. Australia, Canada, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand and Britain also provide a lower level of benefits than countries in the top tier of the ranking.
Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland make up the top-tier countries with the most benefits for the greatest number of workers.
An entrenched system of benefits in much of Europe, and the resistance to efforts to pare it, have raised criticism that the European countries are too burdened with social costs to compete effectively with more free-wheeling economies.
Mr. Beattie rejected such criticism as "naive" and said that the study indicated that countries can put a secure floor under workers while still growing economically. The I.L.O. study showed that the most generous countries, like Spain, replace 63 percent to 77 percent of wages to the unemployed. New Zealand is among the lowest, at 23 percent wage replacement. Canada and the United States provide about 58 percent replacement of wages.
The two North American countries and Britain, however, also provide unemployment benefits for only 12 months, which is described as short in the report. Also, neither the United States or Canada provides a second layer of unemployment assistance when initial insurance benefits are exhausted. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (55%); PORTUGAL (55%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (55%); PORTUGAL (55%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH ROGER BEATTIE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



536 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Keeping His Distance

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush chose to stay away from the state convention of the Texas Republican Party last week. If you were trying to sell yourself to American voters as a sane, moderately conservative candidate for president, you'd have stayed away, too.
The rest of the nation is not nearly ready for the zany extremism of the Republican Party in Mr. Bush's home state. The convention was held in Houston, and here are just a few of the items in the platform adopted by the delegates: 
 * The income tax and the Internal Revenue Service should be abolished.
* All minimum wage laws should be repealed.
* The Social Security system should be phased out entirely.
* All U.S. participation in the United Nations should come to an end.
* The North American Free Trade Agreement should be repealed and the United States should withdraw from the World Trade Organization.
* The federal monetary system should return to the gold standard.
They're serious. The hard right rides at a gallop in Texas.
Mr. Bush thought it would be prudent to steer clear of Houston while the convention was under way. He spent his time traveling and raising campaign cash in New England, Ohio, Kentucky and Florida.
It may be odd for a governor to skip the convention of his own state party but Republican politicians in Texas seemed to understand that the potential for embarrassment was great, and it was probably better for Mr. Bush to keep his distance.
For example, even as a national controversy was developing over the planned execution of Gary Graham, the Texas Republicans asserted in their platform that "capital punishment should be swift and unencumbered."
Another item in the platform declared that "homosexual behavior is contrary to the fundamental unchanging truths that have been ordained by God."
The delegates would not let the Texas Log Cabin Republicans set up an information booth inside the convention hall. So the group rented a 25-foot air-conditioned van and drove it around the convention center for three days.
"We got lots of claps and thumbs up," said Steve Labinski, the state president of the gay Republican group.
Governor Bush's wife, Laura, spoke at the convention, and Mr. Bush told the delegates, in a videotaped statement: "I really don't like missing my first Texas state Republican convention since 1990."
That may have been true. But he would have liked even less being badgered by reporters about whether he agreed with some of the wackier aspects of the convention and its platform -- and whether he would fight his party (in Texas or in Congress) whenever he held an opposing view.
Governor, do you agree that we should get rid of the minimum wage? Governor, what would happen to retirees if Social Security were phased out altogether? Governor, how would the federal government be financed if we scrapped the income tax? Governor, do you think we should go back on the gold standard? Isn't that, um, a half-baked idea?
Through a spokesman, the governor made it clear that he wanted nothing to do with the Texas Republican Party platform.
"Let me put it this way," said the spokesman. "Those interested in Governor Bush's positions and platforms should listen to Governor Bush on the campaign trail, or listen to him at the National Republican Convention this summer. He is running on his own positions and agenda items, on issues like improving education, economic opportunity and national defense.
"The state party platform, which the governor was not involved in drafting, was created by approximately 8,000 delegates and should be viewed as a broad statement of philosophy. But, again, for those interested in the Bush agenda, they should pay attention to Governor Bush."
Other high-profile Texan Republicans, including Senators Phil Gramm and Kay Bailey Hutchison, attended the convention and made speeches. But, of course, they're not running for president.
The Texas Republican who is running for president ran as far from the weirdness of his own party's convention as he could get. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LOG CABIN DEMOCRAT (53%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (55%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



537 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Rise as Microsoft Rallies on Delay in Restrictions

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Microsoft helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index higher yesterday after a federal judge delayed business restrictions against the software company.
The Nasdaq rose for the fifth consecutive day, very nearly returning to where it began the year. The index, which has steadily recovered from steep losses in April and May, is now less than six points below its Dec. 31, 1999, close. At its low point on May 23, the Nasdaq was down 28.6 percent for the year. 
 "We're seeing the continued shift out of industrial and value companies and into growth companies," said Tom Galvin, chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York. Yet he pointed out that without Microsoft, market averages would have barely budged yesterday, suggesting that investors remained uncertain.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 50.65 points, or 1.3 percent, to 4,064.01. The index closed at 4,069.31 on Dec. 31. Even with the comeback, Nasdaq is still 19.5 percent below its record of 5,048.62 reached March 10.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 62.58 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,497.74 and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.18 points, to 1,479.13.
Microsoft climbed 5 3/4, to 80 11/16. In a surprise move late Tuesday afternoon, a federal judge said he would delay sanctions against the company while it appealed the antitrust decision that could force it to be broken in two. The judge's initial ruling called for certain business restraints to be in effect by Sept. 5. Also, the judge sent the case directly to the Supreme Court, but it is uncertain just how quickly the case could be resolved.
The Supreme Court is in the last two weeks of its 1999-2000 term, so the justices, if they accept the case, may not rule for some time.
The broader technology sector was mixed. Handspring, which makes the Visor hand-held electronic organizer, a competitor of the Palm Pilot, made a solid if unremarkable debut on the Nasdaq. Shares were priced at 20 and rose to 261 5/16.
Oracle was lower for most of the day before finishing with a gain of 9/64, closing at 86 3/16. After the close of trading Tuesday, the company announced fiscal fourth-quarter results that beat expectations.
Oracle shares have run up substantially in recent weeks, however, prompting some investors to take profits. Also, analysts said some investors may have been disappointed by the relatively slow growth of Oracle's core database business.
Investors are scouring corporate earnings reports for any signs of weakness and have proved themselves ready to punish any company that misses analysts' estimates or shows any sign of slowing growth.
"We're in a period where investors recognize that the economy is slowing, but they understand that there will be some potholes along the way," Mr. Galvin said.
Rising interest rates have begun hurting profits at a wide range of companies, and investors remain unsure whether the Federal Reserve has finished increasing rates.
The central bank, which has increased rates six times in the last year in a bid to contain inflation, will meet again next week, and anticipation of that meeting is keeping many investors on the sidelines, analysts said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Drop
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices fell sharply as higher oil prices fanned concern that inflation would accelerate.
"Oil has got to be a concern," and will likely lead to more Federal Reserve interest rate increases, said John Poole, who manages $10 billion at Mellon Private Asset Management in Boston.
Longer-dated securities, among the most sensitive to inflation, led Treasuries lower. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 1/32, to 1033 1/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.96 percent from 5.89 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 2 1/32, to 102 28/32. The note's yield rose to 6.10 percent from 6.01 percent on Tuesday.
Treasuries have fallen in recent days on speculation that the Fed's rate increases might not have done as much to slow growth and quell inflation as was shown in last month's economic reports.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"
Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly.
 
Graph tracks 30-year and 15-year federal home loans.
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (74%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (74%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (74%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (74%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); ORACLE CORP (74%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); PALM INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); JUDGES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



538 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Ronnie Spector, Just Walking in a Rainbow

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN 

 BODY:
CAN you just stay focused, sweetheart?" Jonathan Greenfield says tersely to his wife as they settle into a hotel lobby in Danbury, Conn., near their home. "It's so important for you to listen to the question and not just open your guts." He apologizes for his wife, whom he manages professionally. "We always have this discussion!"
Ronnie Spector Greenfield is nervous and certainly scattered, but if her thoughts, rendered in a froggy smoker's voice, scamper off in exultation, why not? 
 After all, a 13-year-old lawsuit over royalties from songs she recorded when she was clambering out of her teens has just been resolved in her favor.
It turns out that for such ringing, glorious 60's hits like "Be My Baby," "Baby I Love You" and "Walking in the Rain," Ronnie and the Ronettes, the shimmying bad girls once so famous that their opening act was the Rolling Stones, received only a one-time check of $14,482.30 from Phil Spector, Mrs. Greenfield's former husband. Last week, a New York State Supreme Court justice ruled that Mr. Spector, who repackaged the Ronettes' songs for oldies collections, commercials and movies like "Dirty Dancing," owed Mrs. Greenfield and the Ronettes -- her sister and cousin -- $2.6 million.
"I'm amazed it's over," says Mrs. Greenfield, 56, who still wears her luxuriant dark hair long, as she did as a teenager, her eyes made up with liquid black liner, her much-imitated look. Even now, a mother of two teenagers, she has an irrepressible girlish eagerness that is endearing and, despite her flinty ambition, vulnerable. "I can have my career back!"
Getting her career back has pretty much been her goal since that morning in 1972 when Ronnie Spector finally got her husband's permission to take a sunlit stroll. She walked out of the gloomy, guarded Beverly Hills mansion barefoot so as not to arouse his suspicions and just kept going. Mr. Spector later paid her divorce lawyers in nickels and stamped her alimony checks with an expletive.
As Mrs. Greenfield wrote in her 1990 autobiography, "Be My Baby" (with a foreword by Cher, another comeback queen who knows from Svengalis), the brilliant Mr. Spector adored her voice and what she calls her "Spanish Harlem half-breedishness." Her mother, a hard-working waitress, was black and American Indian, her father, a happy-go-lucky drinker and unemployed drummer, was white.
IT all crested when the Fabulous Ronettes were touring England and "Be My Baby" was a worldwide hit. She was 20.
"This is what I was waiting for all my life," she says with a throaty laugh. "I was in love with the man I adored and he even flew over to England to see me. And Phil hates to fly.
"And there was my audience! The applause! We had girls who wanted to wear their hair like us, in beehives, the Chinese bangs, the long braid! The kids would be screaming and tearing your clothes off! I loved it! 'Want my shirt? Here! Want a shoe? Here!' "
In 1968, after the Ronettes dissolved, the couple married. She has often described her reclusive, gilded life. His gift of a Camaro came with a mannequin in the passenger seat wearing Mr. Spector's trademark cap, so it would always look as if he was accompanying her. Opera, which she hates, resounded through their home. He repeatedly made her sit through screenings of "Citizen Kane."
"That girl couldn't sing," Mrs. Greenfield says, hurt shadowing her face. "Was Phil trying to tell me something?"
Bored, isolated: "I'd get drunk so I could go to rehab, just to get out of the house." She adds brightly, "I got to hear Carole King's 'Tapestry' in rehab!"
After she left Mr. Spector, she asked the impresario Murray the K for work. "I'm only 29 but I'm an oldie but goodie? I just poured vodka into my soda."
Yet she was plucky and blessed with a much-admired sin-'n'-innocence tremolo. Billy Joel wrote "Say Goodbye to Hollywood" for her. She toured with oldies shows and Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band. Last fall she released a five-song collection, "She Talks to Rainbows," whose co-producer was Joey Ramone. She kept bobbing back up, even performing for President Clinton (who greeted her, arms wide, singing, "Be my little baby!").
In 1980, at 36, she met Mr. Greenfield, 15 years her junior, who had seen her show when he was a smoldering, smitten teenager. "He didn't pull on me right away like most guys," Mrs. Greenfield says. "So we were friends first. If I thought a date was trying to kiss me before we went out to dinner, I'd call up Jonathan and say, 'I need you to fix something!' And he would get rid of the guy for me."
When she credits Mr. Greenfield for the lawsuit, he erupts, excoriating her low self-esteem, but ending with a pep talk. "You were the trailblazer 35 years ago and after you filed the lawsuit, you wouldn't go away! That's what the Bad Girl is about!"
Ronnie, how have you changed?
"I'm my own person," she replies. "I was so controlled by Phil and now I have my own ideas. With this lawsuit over, I'm only looking forward: to my future, to singing rock 'n' roll."
"That's beautiful, sweetheart," her husband says.
Last month, along with singers like Mary Chapin Carpenter and Sheryl Crow, Mrs. Greenfield appeared at a House subcommittee hearing on a new copyright law. When she was introduced, she broke into "Wuh-uh-uh-oh, be my, be my baby," startling her buttoned-up audience. "I just felt the urge," she explains. Afterward, she was swarmed by autograph seekers. "I saw Mary Bono and said: 'Hi! How are the kids?' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronnie Greenfield, ex-Ronette, whose tremolo mingles sin and innocence, still rocking. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (66%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (52%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (66%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; ROYALTIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); ROYALTIES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); LAWYERS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); 

PERSON: GREENFIELD, RONNIE SPECTOR; HOFFMAN, JAN ARLEN SPECTER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



539 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: A New Math: Fewer Airlines + Higher Profits = More Competition

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
James E. Goodwin, the chief executive of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, describes his proposed $4.3 billion purchase of US Airways as a "win-win for consumers" that will usher in a glorious new era of global air service.
But many passengers see the proposed merger rather differently. For them, air travel is already a grim reality of high fares, interminable check-in lines, overcrowded planes, endless delays and in-flight meals that are stingy when they are offered at all. "I look at fares now, especially for business trips, and they are outrageous," said Linda Kurz, an executive assistant in Manhattan. 
 Those two visions are on a collision course in Washington, where Mr. Goodwin and Stephen M. Wolf, the chairman of US Airways, have already faced a hostile Congress at several hearings. At issue is whether the airline industry, a generation after the 1978 deregulation law prompted a wave of industry consolidation, will best serve consumers if it is allowed to become even more concentrated.
The United-US Airways deal, if approved by regulators, would create a winged giant that would carry one quarter of the nation's air traffic. The proposal has set off a frenzy of merger talks that many are convinced could reduce the country's six largest carriers to three mega-airlines. That prospect alarms consumer advocates and lawmakers who already complain that there is too little competition.
"There will be no loss of competition if this merger goes through," Representative Leonard L. Boswell, Democrat of Iowa, said with more than a touch of irony, "because there is no competition now."
Representative Ray LaHood, Republican of Illinois, was even more disturbed. "I think the flying public is in for some real, real horror stories, worse than they have ever experienced," he said, adding that Congress does not have the power to stop the merger.
The Justice Department will decide whether the combination hinders competition. But opponents and backers of the deal agree that it may rise and fall on public opinion and election-year politics.
Several lawmakers have written to the Justice Department urging it to look carefully at the effect of the merger on the structure of the entire industry. A group of senators led by Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, asked the Transportation Department's inspector general to investigate the degree to which airline mergers adversely affect customer service. And attorneys general from 20 states have joined forces to oppose the deal.
For its part, UAL, already the nation's largest airline, has enlisted a small army of lobbyists to make its case. Mr. Goodwin is now devoting nearly all his time to talking to anyone in Washington who will listen.
By any measure, this is a terrible moment to propose an airline merger. The major carriers have faced a growing chorus of critics and government challenges in the last six years.
As business fares rose to record highs in the mid-1990's, many cities and states came to resent the way large airlines dominated major metropolitan airports.
Studies show that fares are much higher at such hubs than at airports with more carriers. In Minneapolis, for example, where Northwest Airlines is the biggest airline by far, fares on average were 49 percent higher than at comparable airports with greater competition.
The major airlines were also accused of preying on new low-fare competitors. The Justice Department sued American Airlines in May 1999, accusing it of illegally driving a small competitor out of its Dallas-Fort Worth hub and then raising prices. American denies any wrongdoing and is fighting the government in court.
The Justice Department filed suit in 1998 to force Northwest to sell its controlling stake in Continental Airlines. It charged that the deal would lead to higher ticket prices and diminished service for millions of passengers. That case is scheduled to go to trial later this year.
Complaints about airlines rose to such a level last year that Congress came close to passing legislation mandating specific levels of service. The industry headed that off by submitting a voluntary set of standards, promising, among other things, to respond to complaints within 60 days and to allow consumers to hold reservations for 24 hours.
Nevertheless, complaints are at a high, rising over 130 percent in the 12 months that ended in April.
Both United and US Airways score at or near the bottom in industry measures of service compiled by the Transportation Department. United was ranked seventh and US Airways eighth in on-time arrivals for the 12 months that ended in April, according to the latest statistics.
"How they could come forward with this deal in an environment like this leaves you scratching your head," said Kevin P. Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents corporate airline customers.
One explanation is that airline executives live in a world of statistics while passengers tend to remember individual flights. United flew 89 million passengers last year, so it is not surprising to Mr. Goodwin that some had problems. He acknowledged in an interview that United needs to improve its service, but he said that according to data compiled by the industry for internal use, United ranks at the top.
Mr. Goodwin and other airline executives point out that the number of passengers nearly tripled to 635 million last year compared with 240 million in 1977, before the industry was deregulated, but average fares, adjusted for inflation, declined 40 percent in the same period. Still, the complex way the industry sets fares, which seem to change by the minute, has fueled broad resentment among consumers.
"The problem with the airline industry," said Leo F. Mullin, the chief executive of Delta Air Lines, "is that it gets killed by anecdotes."
Most airline executives and industry analysts on Wall Street believe that consolidation is inevitable. Industry profit margins, even in the best years, are about 5 percent compared with an average at least twice that for the companies included in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
United argues that combining with US Airways will give it a strong presence along the East Coast, where it is weak. That will be a boon for consumers, the airline said, because the new United would be able to offer service on 560 city-to-city routes, like Sacramento to Erie, Pa., and Fargo, N.D., to Panama City, Fla., that neither it nor US Airways currently serves. Together with its international partners, United said it would also be able to offer "seamless" service to numerous destinations in Europe and Asia.
But critics say the deal will only force United's rivals to get bigger, too. Within days of United's announcement, the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, the country's second-largest airline, entered into merger discussions with both Northwest and Delta.
Many analysts believe that AMR will ultimately seek to merge with No. 4 Northwest, while No. 3 Delta will try to combine with No. 5 Continental Airlines. That would create three giants carrying 80 percent of all passengers.
Some airline executives argue that having three truly national carriers competing head to head in every city would be an improvement on the situation today, in which the six airlines have hegemony over so-called fortress hubs at major metropolitan airports.
But Samuel Buttrick, an airline analyst with PaineWebber in New York, called the notion that three big carriers would offer more competition than six independent airlines "borderline lunacy."
He said that "more competitors means more supply, means more choice at better prices."
Many consumers agree. "Right now all the airlines have to compete for the same dollar," said Wally Thompson, a salesman in Manhattan. "Once they don't have to compete, prices will go up."
To mute criticism, United has pledged not to lay off any of the 40,000 US Airways employees and has also vowed not to increase fares for two years after the deal is consummated. In addition, because a combined United-US Airways would dominate air travel in the Washington area, US Airways has agreed to sell most of its operations at Ronald Reagan National Airport to Robert L. Johnson, the founder of Black Entertainment Television and a US Airways director.
But many executives and analysts believe the fare freeze is meaningless because United has said it reserves the right to raise prices in response to inflation and fuel costs. Executives at rival airlines also said that United would ultimately be forced to abandon some of the US Airways hub airports to justify the expense of the deal.
DC Air, Mr. Johnson's new airline, has also been heavily criticized as a ploy to keep valuable assets at National Airport out of the hands of United's strongest competitors. There are also concerns that DC Air, which will depend on United for all its services from ticketing to maintenance, will not be a truly independent competitor. And even if it is, United would still be the clearly dominant airline in Washington.
And bigger is not necessarily better for frequent fliers, including some in Congress.
"I'm a two-million-mile customer of United," Representative Peter A. DeFazio, Democrat of Oregon, told Mr. Goodwin. "I want a reasonable price, and I want better service. I am not so concerned about the seamlessness of my international and national travel. That's what travel agents are for."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James E. Goodwin, chief of United, testified before a Senate panel yesterday. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Coming Soon: The Big Three?"
Many airline industry analysts believe that if the United-US Airways merger is approved, the other big carriers will follow, leaving three giant airlines in control of most of the market. Here is one set of the possible merger combinations.
 
MERGERS WOULD CONCENTRATE MARKET SHARE . . .
Based on 1999 revenue passenger miles
 
AMERICAN/NORTHWEST -- 28.5%
UNITED/US AIRWAYS -- 25.6%
DELTA/CONTINENTAL -- 25.0%
ALL OTHER AIRLINES -- 20.9%
 
. . . WHEN CONSUMERS ARE LESS THAN HAPPY WITH SERVICE
In April, the most recent data available, none of the big six were rated the best (a ranking of 1) in the three main measures of service.
 
Chart lists On-time arrivals (12 months ending in April), Mishandled baggage (Reports per 1,000 passengers in April) and Complaints (Per 100,000 boardings in April).
 
(Sources: Air Transport Association; Transportation Department)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2051 No Official Title Given (91%); 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); LCC (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES AIRLINES (93%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); MERGERS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (85%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); ARMIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; GOODWIN, JAMES E; WOLF, STEPHEN M RAY LAHOOD (79%); LEONARD L BOSWELL (53%); RON WYDEN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



540 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Equality in hiring remains the key to civil rights goals.

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger; This column appears here every Thursday. Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. Four economic analysts -- Professor Krueger, Hal R. Varian, Jeff Madrick and Virginia Postrel -- rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
WHEN he voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Barry Goldwater declared, "The problems of discrimination cannot be cured by laws alone."
More than three decades of experience suggests that Goldwater was wrong, although not entirely. There is abundant evidence that the act did much to improve prospects for blacks, but as the continuing series in The New York Times on race in America makes clear, discrimination persists, taking on more subtle forms that are less amenable to correction by legislation. Still, existing laws could combat discrimination more effectively. 
 Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, which took effect 35 years ago next month, prohibited employment discrimination and established the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The first studies on the law's economic impact were conducted by Richard Freeman of Harvard and Orley Ashenfelter of Princeton in the early 1970's. They found that after 15 years of stagnation, black men's earnings increased relative to those of whites shortly after the act took effect, with the median earnings gap closing from 36 percent in 1965 to 26 percent in 1975. Gains were particularly large for black professionals. The timing suggests, but certainly does not prove, that the Civil Rights Act was responsible for the improvement.
Professors Freeman and Ashenfelter were quickly criticized by both the right and the left. From the right, critics argued that the narrowing gap was a mirage -- that low-wage workers, who were disproportionately black, were induced to drop out of the labor market by expanded income-transfer programs. The average wage of black workers rose, it was argued, because many who would have earned low wages left the labor force. Others argued that improvements in African-American education and Northern migration were responsible. Some left-wing critics argued that the strong economy, not civil rights legislation, had lifted the earnings of blacks.
Underlying these criticisms was the belief of the right that job discrimination could not persist in a competitive economy because employers would bid up the wages of minorities if they were equally productive but less well paid, and the left's belief that more government intervention was needed to make a real dent in discrimination.
The accumulating evidence has convinced most critics that the Civil Rights Act was a principal cause of black progress. The black-white earnings gap continued to narrow until the mid-1970's, in both strong and weak economic times. Several studies, including a recent working paper by Chinhui Juhn of the University of Houston, found that labor market dropouts accounted for only a small part of the narrowing. The gap shrank most impressively in the South, for workers in all age groups, suggesting that educational improvements and migration were not primarily responsible.
It is possible that the earnings gap shrank because of deeper changes in society -- the very forces that led to the enactment of the Civil Rights Act. But a 1998 study by Kenneth Chay of the University of California at Berkeley found that when smaller establishments became covered by the act in 1972, the employment and pay of black workers increased in them more than in establishments that were already covered. Because societal forces operated on both large and small employers, coverage by the Civil Rights Act made the difference.
The improvement in the relative economic status of African-Americans halted in the mid-1970's, especially for college graduates, and the earnings gap increased slightly in the 1980's. Strong economic growth in the late 1990's helped return the black-white wage gap for men to about where it was at the end of the 1970's. For black women, who have a smaller earnings gap than do black men, the gap has continued to widen slowly.
Progress in narrowing the gap slowed primarily as a byproduct of forces that caused rising wage dispersion throughout the American economy.
To some extent, the Civil Rights Act has also been a victim of its own success. The early cases brought under the law were predominantly class- action suits against employers who refused to hire African-Americans in higher-paying jobs and industries, like steel and aircraft manufacturing.
The nature of litigation has changed. Research by John Donohue III and Peter Siegelman published in the Stanford Law Review found that in 1966, charges of racial discrimination involving hiring outnumbered those involving firing by 50 percent. In 1999 firing cases outnumbered hiring cases by more than six to one. The number of class-action suits, though up in the last five years, declined from a peak of 1,100 in 1975 to 28 in 1999.
Antidiscrimination policy works best when it opens doors and gives people a chance to prove their mettle. Studies in which paired black and white job seekers apply for the same job routinely turn up evidence of bias in hiring. But cases involving individual discharges are easier and less costly for lawyers to pursue. This is unfortunate because "abuses of the system are greater on the firing side, and the potential for achieving the goals of the legislation are greater on the hiring side," Professor Donohue said.
Concerns about possible litigation over future discharges could also discourage employers from taking a chance on minority job applicants in the first place.
To make the Civil Rights Act more effective, Professor Donohue proposes doubling or tripling damages in discriminatory hiring cases, as is done in antitrust cases, and curtailing punitive damages on the discharge side.
But Paul Steven Miller, a commissioner with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, said he was concerned that different penalties for hiring and firing cases would send a signal that some forms of employment discrimination are more offensive than others. Instead, he favors increased technical assistance for minority job applicants, greater use of programs to send matched-race testers to apply for jobs and affirmative action to identify and reduce racial bias in hiring.
Still, it is hard to argue with Professor Donohue when he says, "It would be a shame if Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, which embodies one of the most noble ideas of the 20th century, becomes used primarily as a way for less competent workers to hang on to their jobs or walk away with a sizable, undeserved severance package."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Narrowing the Gap"
Since 1965, when the Civil Rights Act went into effect, median earnings of black full-time workers have gained ground on the earnings of their white counterparts.
 
Graph tracks earnings parity between black and white workers since 1955.
 
Note: Before 1967, blacks and other nonwhites are included together.
(Source: Census Bureau)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION CIVIL RIGHTS (94%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B BARRY MORRIS GOLDWATER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



541 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES;
OPEC Agrees to 2.5% Increase in Output

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: VIENNA, June 21

 BODY:
In a grudging move to rein in soaring oil prices, ministers at the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided today to increase their production limits by about 708,000 barrels a day, or 2.5 percent, beginning July 1.
The increase, OPEC's second in three months, is slightly higher than had been expected. But analysts said it remained too modest to bring down gasoline prices that have reached more than $2 a gallon in some parts of the United States. 
 Given that member countries are already overshooting their official production quotas, analysts said that today's move largely amounts to a ratification of existing practices.
As a practical matter, any increased production in crude oil will take at least two months to work its way through the refining system and will not reach gasoline pumps until after the summer driving season is largely over.
"They are officializing what they are already producing," said Roger Diwan, an analyst at the Petroleum Finance Corporation, an industry consulting firm in Washington. "It's the minimum that could have been done."
Indeed, oil ministers meeting here in Vienna went out of their way to place much of the blame for high gasoline prices on regulations and refining problems in the United States as well as extremely high gasoline taxes across much of Europe.
"People in consuming countries point their finger at OPEC," complained Rilwanu Lukman, the organization's secretary general. "These people should tackle their own countries."
But many oil ministers have themselves been baffled by the extent to which prices have remained high. One senior official here complained that buying and selling in the petroleum markets has caused unjustifiable price swings from as low as $24 to as high as $33 since OPEC raised production at the end of March.
Production has increased more than two million barrels a day since the end of March, yet crude oil prices have rebounded and inventories are still at their lowest levels in years.
For all their caution, oil ministers meeting here displayed far more solidarity than they did three months ago, when Iran angrily rebelled against Saudi Arabian pressure to raise production by about 7 percent, or a total of 1.7 million barrels a day.
Today, Iran signed on without any objections to the new increase while also formally accepting the last one as well. By avoiding a replay of the bitter rift in March, the OPEC ministers, who control about 40 percent of the global supply of oil, easily reached a consensus in one day.
"Today, everybody I think is of the opinion that an increase was necessary," said Khelil Chakib, Algeria's oil minister, who predicted that the price of crude oil would soon decline from more than $30 a barrel to less than $28.
"The question was how big the increase should be," Mr. Chakib added. "I think this is about the right volume because we have got to consider manufacturers, the supply-demand behavior and the growth of world consumption."
That attitude reflects a significant change in the mindset within OPEC. As recently as three months ago, many producer countries were still terrified that any increase in production would lead to a catastrophic decline in prices similar to one in 1998, when oil fell to the $10-a-barrel level at one point.
But when oil prices jumped back to more than $30 a barrel after the last production increase, exporting countries became increasingly more confident.
At the same time, more countries now agree with Saudi Arabian leaders that current prices are too high to be stable and would over time cause economic slowdowns in consuming countries that could hurt OPEC members by lowering global demand for their oil.
As one official from a non-OPEC producing country remarked today: "When the price of crude on the market is $33, everybody can afford to be friends."
World oil markets brushed off the production increase announced today, sending prices up. Crude oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange jumped about 2 percent, or 72 cents, to $31.37 a barrel.
OPEC ministers essentially conceded today that they had given up their plan for an "automatic" adjustment if oil prices ranged outside a band of $22 to $28 a barrel.
Member countries had agreed to the band in March, but when the 20-day average price of oil exceeded $28 a barrel two weeks ago, the organization did not impose any increase.
"Forget about bands," Mr. Lukman told reporters after the oil ministers adjourned their meeting. "Focus on the fact that OPEC wants a price of around $25 a barrel."
OPEC's influence on the global supply of oil is immense. It plays a crucial role as a swing producer that can pump or withhold additional oil. All other producers are already pumping at maximum capacity.
Indeed, many OPEC members are already at or near their own maximum capacity. But the countries that still have extra capacity are among its biggest producers: Saudi Arabia, which pumps about 8 million barrels a day; Kuwait, which pumps about 2 million barrels; and the United Arab Emirates, which pumps about 2.2 million barrels.
Iran, which produces about 3.6 million barrels a day, is believed to be near maximum capacity. But Iran's oil minister, Bijan Namdar Zangeneh, insisted this evening that his country could meet its new quotas.
"We have enough capacity," Mr. Sangeneh said at the start of the minister's meeting. "We can comply fully with our commitments within OPEC."
A few important non-OPEC producers, mainly Mexico and Norway, are expected to increase production as well. Both countries copied the production cuts that OPEC members adopted in March 1999, which helped prices more than triple to a high of $34, the highest in nearly a decade.
Further non-OPEC production could add another 300,000 barrels of oil a day, bringing the total supply of new oil to 600,000 or 700,000 barrels a day.
In Washington, the Clinton administration greeted OPEC's decision with cautious praise. The White House has kept a decidedly low profile in the last few weeks, in sharp contrast to the relentless and very public lobbying conducted by Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson before OPEC's meeting in March.
Mr. Richardson's lobbying campaign, which included telephone calls to OPEC ministers while they were meeting in Vienna, irritated many countries and provoked especially loud denunciations from Iran about "external pressure."
Mr. Richardson expressed a measured endorsement of OPEC's decision today, calling it "a positive, though modest step that we hope will lead to more stable oil markets and lower oil prices at the pump."
Gary N. Ross, head of PIRA Energy, an energy consulting firm in New York, was more skeptical and predicted that today's move would do little to minimize American motorist anger, particularly in the Midwest where gasoline prices have surpassed $2 a gallon.
"World demand will go up by 1.5 million barrels a day in the third quarter compared to the second quarter," Mr. Ross predicted here today. "So we are not going to get the supply to increase stock-building. This is not going to make Al Gore or the U.S. government very happy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rilwanu Lukman, secretary general of OPEC, presides at yesterday's meeting. (Associated Press)
 
Graph tracks Crude Oil prices (near-month contract), since Jan., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TAXATION PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FUEL TAX (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUTURES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; BANERJEE, NEELA

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



542 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Summit Glow Fades as Koreans Face Obstacles to Unity

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 21

 BODY:
The euphoria that followed the summit meeting between North and South Korea last week has started to fade as their leaders face the reality of trying to reunite two countries with a common ancestry and language but drastically different ideologies and fortunes.
Although foreign diplomats and political experts say the prospects of peace and reconciliation on the Korean Peninsula remain promising, antagonistic statements in both countries in recent days underscore the inevitable difficulties that North and South face in trying to overcome five decades as ideological enemies. 
 This week, the official North Korean news agency released numerous provocative declarations, some old and some new, by the country's leader, Kim Jong Il, admonishing North Koreans not to stray from the principles of the Communist revolution.
"We must create a self-sufficient and strong nation and not yield to economic reforms and market openings that would certainly lead to our destruction," Mr. Kim said in a rebroadcast of a 1999 speech on Tuesday, a day after the United States had removed sanctions on nonmilitary trade with North Korea.
In a broadcast today, the North Korean Foreign Ministry demanded that all sanctions be lifted and that the United States stop being "hostile."
On Sunday, North Korea said the United States, which has 37,000 troops in South Korea, had increased the likelihood of war on the peninsula.
The diatribe, which political experts said was intended to appease North Korean hard-liners and project an image of strength, was a sharp contrast to the conciliatory gestures that Kim Jong Il and President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea traded at their talks in Pyongyang.
The two leaders signed an accord that called for closer ties, economic cooperation and eventual reunification.
But the North's shift in tone has been no more caustic than a barrage of criticism that South Korea's main political opposition has levied against the Communist country and the agreement forged there.
While acknowledging the significance of the summit meeting, leaders of the opposition Grand National Party said that North Korea remained a dangerous state and that the talks had failed to address important issues like the North's nuclear and missile programs and the costs of reunification.
"Kim Jong Il is very good at putting on a show," Chung Hyung Keun, a legislator of the opposition Grand National Party, said. "But he is an old-line Communist leader who believes that he can make the South his own at any time, and that is very dangerous."
Foreign and Korean experts said the verbal jabs had provided a much-needed reality check to the mass euphoria after the summit sessions and pointed to some of the difficulties ahead.
"I think that both sides are working hard to achieve peace, but we can't expect them to abandon their political systems and party-line rhetoric overnight," said a European ambassador.
Indeed, no one expects reunification of the peninsula soon. The stark economic differences between the two Koreas and astronomical costs of merging them make reunification a distant prospect.
Fueled by foreign investment, open markets, advanced technology and entrepreneurial spirit, South Korea has become one of the world's most economically successful democracies.
But North Korea, by all accounts, is in dire straits. Inefficient agriculture and devastating floods have created severe food shortages. Most of its factories are dormant.
In most regions, there are virtually no paved roads, telephones or public transportation. Economists have estimated that it could cost hundreds of billions of dollars to integrate the two.
How fast the two countries unify would largely depend on what political changes occur in North Korea. Because North Korea remains closed to the outside world, little is known about what effects the summit meeting has had there.
South Korean envoys who attended the sessions said it was widely reported in newspapers and on radio and television in Pyongyang.
But political experts said because Kim Jong Il's government so tightly controlled what North Koreans see and think and the country has been isolated so long, the meetings were highly unlikely to have significant political effects soon.
"Kim Jong Il's power has never been stronger, despite his people's dismal economic situation," said Jo Dong Ho, an economist for the Korean Development Institute, a private think tank in Seoul. "For change to take place, North Koreans have to become aware that their difficulties arise from bad governance. But most of them still believe that Kim Jong Il is great and all people on this planet worship him."
But the meeting may have had some repercussions in the North.
"We support the notion that Kim Dae Jung's visit created a lot of excitement in North Korea and that the recent broadcasts reasserting revolutionary principles were designed to calm the excitement there that reunification was near," said Yoon Young Joong, who monitors North Korean broadcasts for the Unification Ministry in South Korea.
North Korea's propagandistic broadcasts are also being put forward by South Korea's political opposition as evidence that Kim Jong Il has not changed his ways.
The opposition has criticized Kim Dae Jung for not using the meetings to focus on the hundreds of thousands of North Koreans who international aid workers estimate have died because of famine and floods and the government's failure to adopt agricultural and market reforms.
Opposition politicians also accused South Korean media of presenting an unrealistically positive view of the summit meetings.
"Just recently," Mr. Chung said, "the South Korean media were filled with images of starving North Korean children eating worms from the ground just outside Pyongyang and elsewhere around the country. But now the media have stopped showing these atrocities, and the only thing they show are pretty images of Pyongyang."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: North Korean troops at Panmunjom outpost looking toward South Korea yesterday. North Korea has stepped up criticism of Seoul. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH & SOUTH RAILWAYS LTD (92%); NORTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTRY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTRY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; KIM JONG IL KIM JONG IL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



543 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Missile Pledge Paves the Way for New Talks

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Thursday, June 22

 BODY:
North Korea has reaffirmed its pledge to the United States to stop flight-testing its long-range missile, paving the way for talks very soon with the Clinton administration on further curbs on the missile program, a senior administration official said today.
The North Korean announcement came after the administration lifted some economic sanctions on Monday and was welcomed as a "positive statement of their commitment," the official said. 
 But the North Korean pledge did not alter the administration's resolve to move ahead with its missile defense program, which has been largely justified on the assumption that North Korea could have the ability to hit the United States with nuclear or chemical-tipped ballistic missiles by 2005, the official said.
Flight-testing is only one element of North Korea's missile development and such concerns as engine-testing and improving launching sites by the North Koreans will be addressed in the coming talks, the official said.
Speaking en route to China with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, the official said that in return for the reaffirmation, announced in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on Wednesday, the United States would announce specific dates for the resumption of talks between North Korea and Washington.
These talks could begin as soon as the end of the month, officials said. The first round of talks took place in March last year in Pyongyang.
In the coming session, the United States will deal with North Korea's "development, deployment, testing and export of missiles," as well as the country's nuclear program, the senior official said. One goal of the talks is to seek "verification" of North Korean pledges.
Since the summit meeting of North and South Korean leaders last week, Pentagon officials have emphasized that although North Korea agreed last fall to suspend the testing of the Taepodong 1 missile it fired over Japan in 1998 -- a suspension it reaffirmed on Wednesday -- the North Korean military has not suspended development of a new generation of missiles known as the Taepodong 2.
A National Intelligence Estimate last year concluded that by 2005 North Korea could complete development of the Taepodong 2, a missile capable of reaching the United States with a nuclear warhead.
A new estimate is being prepared for President Clinton, officials said last week, and is expected to reach similar conclusions.
As Dr. Albright landed here to meet with Chinese leaders on a range of issues, her aides sought to walk a fine line between lauding the outcome of the landmark summit meeting between the two Koreas last week and keeping a lid on what Washington sees as misplaced euphoria.
The officials were also anxious to make clear that the United States had its own lines of communication with North Korea, separate and apart from what went on at the summit meeting in Pyongyang.
Thus the senior official, who briefed reporters on Dr. Albright's plane, said that Wednesday's statement reaffirming the moratorium of flight tests was part of a choreographed script worked out between the United States and North Korea at talks in Rome at the end of May.
The agreement there, the official said, was that Mr. Clinton would formalize the easing of sanctions, the North Koreans would reconfirm their moratorium, and then the United States would move ahead with the dates of the missile talks.
Behind these steps lies the overall strategy worked out by Mr. Clinton's special envoy to North Korea, former Defense Secretary William J. Perry. That strategy revolves around a finely tuned series of moves to lift sanctions as North Korea begins to freeze its nuclear arsenal and end sales of missile technology to countries Washington suspects of sponsoring terrorism.
But the three days of amiability at the Korean summit meeting surprised the administration and left officials faced with uncomfortable diplomatic pressure to ease up on its missile defense program just as the American presidential election is about to get under way.
Some of Washington's NATO allies have questioned whether the North Korean missile threat was serious enough to deploy a missile defense shield that antagonizes Russia and China.
Despite the administration's unchanged position on North Korea's missile capacity, Dr. Albright's aides said they noted that the tone of the statement from Pyongyang was more generous than in the past. For example, the senior official said that the statement used the firmer word "moratorium" rather than "suspension," which was used by the North Koreans last fall.
The statement also said that the easing of sanctions would have "a positive effect" on plans for a senior North Korean official to visit the United States for talks with the administration. Such a meeting has been broached for some time but has yet to take place.
The statement concluded with an appeal to the United States to honor North Korea's sovereignty and improve bilateral relations so that North Korea could then "work to clear the United States of its worries." Asked what this phrase meant, a State Department official said, "It's nice, but we don't know." After her quick visit to China, which is scheduled to last less than 36 hours, Dr. Albright will fly to Seoul to learn firsthand details of the summit meeting from South Korea's President, Kim Dae Jung. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; CHINA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MISSILE SYSTEMS (94%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BILL CLINTON (85%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



544 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: LAZIO'S TAX RETURNS -- Calling reports of Representative Rick A. Lazio's stock profits "deeply troubling," the chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee, Judith Hope, challenged the Republican Senate candidate yesterday to release his income tax returns. The New York Times reported on Friday that Mr. Lazio had made a 600 percent profit on stock he bought in 1997 in Quick & Reilly, a brokerage controlled by some of his campaign contributors. A spokesman said Mr. Lazio would release his returns "as soon as possible." Eric Lipton (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: GRAVANO ALLEGATION -- Salvatore Gravano, left, the Mafia turncoat who testified against John J. Gotti, plotted to kill Ronald L. Kuby, a lawyer who represents the survivors of some of Mr. Gravano's murder victims, according to court papers. Mr. Gravano, whose ferocity earned him the nickname Sammy the Bull and who left New York under the cloak of the federal witness protection program to start a new life, was arrested in Arizona in February on charges that he was running a multimillion-dollar drug ring. William K. Rashbaum (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: STEALING FROM THE DEAD -- Two attendants from the city morgue were arrested yesterday on charges that they pilfered sunglasses, a small cassette player, a flashlight, a fanny pack and $3 from the Sheepshead Bay apartment of a dead man they were to transport, the police said. The two men tried to hide the items in the mortuary bag with the body. A police officer guarding the dead man's residence said he saw Edward Rodriguez, 40, and Ruben Barrios, 50, both of Brooklyn, steal the items. William K. Rashbaum (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: ORGAN DONATIONS -- To expand the availability of organs for transplants, the New York State Department of Health and the Department of Motor Vehicles have begun a computer registry of state residents who wish to be donors after death. Under state law, if no such instruction has been left, family permission is required for a dead person's organs and tissues to be used. Often, family members refuse because they do not know their relative's wishes. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: MUSEUM STRIKE -- With the union representing its administrative workers still on strike after six weeks, the Museum of Modern Art yesterday put into effect its latest contract offer for employees who have returned to work. Nearly half of the 250 workers in the bargaining unit have crossed the picket line, and yesterday's move gives them an immediate 3 percent raise and more generous retirement-plan contributions. Museum officials said it was unfair for those who returned to work to be left without a raise since November 1998. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
AMITYVILLE: PARTNER BENEFITS -- Maxine S. Postal, a Suffolk county legislator, plans to introduce a resolution on Tuesday seeking health benefits for domestic partners of Suffolk county workers. Ms. Postal, a Democrat of Amityville, said that the resolution, although nonbinding, would indicate that the county executive and the county's unions could negotiate similar benefits during collective bargaining. Last week, such a bill was voted down. Stacy Albin (NYT)
 
ALBANY: DAMAGED APPLE CROP -- Hudson Valley apple growers say they will need federal aid because hailstorms on May 18 and June 2 damaged an estimated two million bushels of apples. Apples are the fourth most valuable crop in the state, generating $138 million in 1999. Loss estimates for the mid-Hudson alone run as high as $10 million. On Monday, Agriculture Commissioner Nathan L. Rudgers toured apple orchards to view the damage and heard from growers, some of whom said their economic survival was at stake. (AP)
 
BROOKLYN: WENDY'S KILLINGS -- Two men who the police say supplied the gun used in the killing of five Wendy's restaurant workers last month have been arrested, the United States attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York announced yesterday. The handgun was found in a belt pack on John B. Taylor, left, one of two men charged in the killings. Prosecutors said that Bernard Gardier, 23, of Cleveland, had stolen the legally purchased weapon from his girlfriend and that Jamal Gales, 27, of Berea, Ohio, arranged its sale for $250 to an unnamed person in Nassau County. (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
CAMDEN: RABBI MURDER CASE -- A rabbi charged with hiring two men to kill his wife in 1994 must await his trial in jail. Judge Linda G. Rosenzweig of Superior Court revoked the bail of Rabbi Fred J. Neulander yesterday, ruling that because Mr. Neulander now faced the death penalty, he would be more likely to flee. A grand jury returned a capital murder indictment against Mr. Neulander on Tuesday. (AP)
 
TRENTON: EMISSION TESTS IN DOUBT -- State officials said they might drop or delay part of the state automobile inspections scheduled to begin on July 1. One problem, they said, is that the so-called tank pressure test, which would discover leaks in a car's exhaust system not detected by tailpipe testing, could increase the waiting time for drivers. Waits of several hours because of problems with the new tailpipe emissions test angered motorists soon after the new system went into effect in December, resulting in the test's suspension. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
BRIDGEPORT: DRUG RING SENTENCES -- Three people convicted of being part of Russell Peeler Jr.'s drug ring were sentenced to federal prison on Tuesday, the same day that Mr. Peeler escaped the death penalty for a double murder. Angelina Keene, 24, of Bridgeport, who has three children with Mr. Peeler and was accused of running the drug operation when he was away, received a three-year sentence in United States District Court. Cory King, 22, and Shawn Kennedy, 24, each received 10 years. Mr. Peeler will be sentenced to life because jurors in his case could not reach a unanimous decision on the death penalty. (AP)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); WITNESS PROTECTION (55%); WITNESS PROTECTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (55%); WITNESS PROTECTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); ORGAN DONATION (86%); STRIKES (84%); LABOR UNIONS (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); FAMILY (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); WITNESSES (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); MURDER (74%); ARRESTS (74%); COUNTIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (63%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: RICK A LAZIO (69%); SALVATORE GRAVANO (63%); FRED J NEULANDER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



545 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Big Insurer to Compensate Blacks Who Paid Too Much
After decades of paying higher premiums for life insurance than white customers, nearly five million black customers and their families nationwide are going to be compensated in a settlement reached with American General, one of the nation's biggest insurers.
The company said that it was making restitution of $206 million, mainly to the black customers and their heirs who, until as recently as April, paid as much as 33 percent more than white customers for small policies intended to cover burial expenses. Page A1. 

Texas Instruments to Buy a Rival
Texas Instruments said it would acquire Burr-Brown, which is also a computer chip maker, for $7.6 billion in stock. C2.
 
Stock Prices Rally as Bonds Fall
Microsoft helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 50.65 points, or 1.3 percent, to 4,064.01. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 62.58 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,497.74, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 3.18 points, to 1,479.13. Bond prices fell sharply, with the yield on the 30-year issue rising to 5.96 percent from 5.89 percent on Tuesday. C11.
 
Uranium Enrichment Plant to Close
The United States Enrichment Corporation, the private company that runs the nation's only two uranium enrichment plants, said it would close one of them in a year, in Portsmouth, Ohio, because of high costs and a depressed market for reactor fuel. C22.
 
Money Manager Is Suspended
Regulators have suspended and fined the former owner of Founders Asset Management, which manages more than $8 billion, for failing to disclose that some of the firm's clients paid excessive commissions on stock trades in the early 1990's. Market Place. C10.
 
A New Standard for Internet Privacy
Major Internet companies and the World Wide Web's standard-setting body introduced long-awaited technology that would alert computer users before they visited Web sites that collect more personal information than they are willing to share. The new standard was denounced by some privacy advocates. C6.
 
Protesters Take Control of Nike Site
Protesters took control of the Nike Web site and redirected visitors to a site urging organizations to gather at and disrupt a world economic summit later this year. C2.
 
Fidelity Investments Shuffles Staff
Fidelity Investments, which manages nearly $1 trillion, shuffled its top executives and reorganized into three units headed by three vice chairmen. James C. Curvey, 65, president and chief operating officer, is leaving both posts and returning to his previous job at the firm. He will remain a vice chairman. Robert L. Reynolds, 48, above, will replace Mr. Curvey as chief operating officer and will also be a vice chairman. Robert C. Pozen, 53, president of FMR, also will be a vice chairman. C8.
 
Frankel Is Sentenced in Germany
A German court sentenced Martin R. Frankel, the American financier, to three years in prison for failing to pay custom taxes on smuggled diamonds and carrying false passports. C4.
 
Handspring Shares Climb 35%
Shares of Handspring rose 35 percent in their first day of trading after raising $200 million in an initial offering that showed investors' enthusiasm for companies that make increasingly popular hand-held computers. C22.
 
35 Years Later, Hiring Bias Remains
More than three decades after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, there is abundant evidence that it did much to improve job prospects for blacks. But bias still persists, and policies aimed at reducing discrimination would be sharper if they concentrated more on opening opportunities than on redressing the grievances of dismissed workers. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,497.74 up 62.58
Nasdaq composite -- 4,064.01 up 50.65
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96% up 0.07
The euro -- $0.9450 down 0.0069
The dollar -- 105.55yen up 0.11
 
Graph tracks 30-Year Bond prices since Wed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); FOUNDERS ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); FMR CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); INSURANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); INTERNET PRIVACY (86%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (67%); PLANT CLOSINGS (50%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



546 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: PRICE OF GASOLINE EMERGES AS ISSUE IN BUSH-GORE RACE

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, June 21

 BODY:
Worried that voters will blame the Clinton administration -- and Vice President Al Gore -- for the recent surge in gasoline prices, the Gore campaign has begun an effort to paint Gov. George W. Bush, a onetime oil company executive, as a tool of the oil interests it says are relentlessly gouging consumers.
Speaking today for the Gore campaign, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said Mr. Bush was "getting all his money" from the oil companies, a reference to the industry's substantial financial contributions to Mr. Bush's presidential campaign. 
 Mr. Harkin said he wanted oil executives to testify under oath on Capitol Hill about the price increases.
For his part, Mr. Bush and Republicans on Capitol Hill blame the gas-price increase on the Clinton administration, saying the administration has had no coherent domestic energy policy and, in imposing regulations to meet clean air standards, had allowed prices to drift as high as $2.39 a gallon in the Midwest. Mr. Bush also said the administration had failed to persuade the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to "open the spigots" to increase the supply.
The group did decide today to increase production by more than most experts had expected, but the increase remained too small to bring down gasoline prices.
Mr. Bush, who has been reluctant to discuss the issue publicly, broke his silence today and joined Mr. Gore in endorsing the investigation by the Federal Trade Commission that was announced on Tuesday.
"I do think it's fair to have the F.T.C. investigate," he told reporters in Los Angeles.
Mr. Bush's comment could undercut Mr. Gore's efforts to portray the governor as part of the problem. In any case, the issue has jumped to the top of the agenda in presidential politics as Americans begin their summer vacations and both sides are trying to exploit it.
The prices have hit hardest in the Midwest, the very states where the two campaigns are competing most fiercely for votes.
Gas prices in Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin are substantially higher than in other parts of the country for several reasons, but chief among them, Republicans say, is the special kind of reformulated gas the area must use under Environmental Protection Agency regulations. Those regulations went into effect on June 1, which is when prices began to rise considerably. The Midwest is the first region, under the rules, to begin using this ethanol-laced reformulated gas to prevent pollution.
Democratic officials said that new polling shows that voters believe the price of gasoline is far and away the No. 1 problem in the country. The officials also say that voters blame American oil companies most, then the OPEC oil cartel.
Gore officials see the emergence of this issue as an opportunity to link Mr. Bush directly in the public mind with the oil companies and portray Mr. Gore as on the side of working families. This has been a longtime goal of the Gore campaign, but it has not succeeded so far.
Mark Fabiani, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said: "It all comes down to who people think is on their side. People believe, and rightly so, that the oil companies are in large part responsible for the price of gasoline. They don't believe the government is responsible for the price of gas. So what average people are deciding is, 'Who do I want in the government when gas prices skyrocket?' We think the answer is clear: Vice President Gore is on their side, Governor Bush isn't."
Mr. Gore himself has ratcheted up his language on the price increases, last week saying in selective interviews with Midwest television stations that he wanted an investigation into possible collusion. Today, he said at the opening of a Social Security speech in Iowa, one of the states most affected, that he was concerned about the "conduct of the oil companies" and that they may have been price gouging.
Mr. Gore noted that OPEC had indicated today that it would increase oil production, a move that would presumably put downward pressure on gasoline prices in the United States. But he said the issue deserved thorough investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.
"I hope that it will be thorough and hard-hitting," Mr. Gore said of the investigation. "If there's evidence of what I suspect there's evidence of, it ought to be dealt with quickly and harshly. I think it's time to put our feet on the brakes of what may well be big oil's price gouging."
Senator Harkin, speaking on behalf of the Gore campaign on a conference call with reporters, accused the oil companies of "outright thievery." He went on to castigate Mr. Bush for his "silence" on the matter, saying, "What can you expect of someone who once claimed, and I quote, 'There's no such thing as being too closely aligned to the oil business in West Texas'?"
The quotation from Mr. Bush was made in a 1978 Congressional campaign. Acknowledging that the quotation was more than 20 years old, Mr. Harkin said: "The point is, the test of character and leadership is when you're willing to take on your friends when it's in the nation's best interest."
Mr. Bush signed an emergency tax bill in 1999 that gave state tax breaks to oil and gas companies. The Dallas Morning News reported that the bill saved Richard Rainwater, a former Bush business partner, $1 million. At least 14 of Mr. Bush's "Pioneers," his largest financial contributors, have ties to the oil industry.
Mr. Bush's campaign has received $1.5 million from energy interests as of April 30, while Mr. Gore had received less than $125,000 as of the same date.
But the Gore strategy of opening up fire on the oil front carries some dangers for the Gore campaign. For one thing, rising prices -- and being reminded of them -- could undermine consumer confidence in the economy at a time when Mr. Gore is boasting about the economy on his "progress and prosperity tour."
Representative Dick Armey, the majority leader and a Texan, told reporters in Washington today: "The vice president has a growing political problem because his administration has been asleep at the wheel when it comes to dealing with OPEC. Instead of acknowledging that his administration has no energy policy, which leaves our nation overly dependent on foreign oil, the vice president is looking for a scapegoat."
Republicans also said that Mr. Gore has obsessively lobbied for so-called "clean-air fuel," the kind that is now at the center of the Midwestern price increases, without worrying about the consequences. "He is the one who pushed this whole idea of a different type of gasoline," said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois.
But Gore officials say the environmental standards leading to the reformulation of gasoline have added only four to eight cents a gallon to the cost of fuel and would not account for such a drastic price increase.
In his 1992 environmental treatise, "Earth in the Balance," Mr. Gore himself proposed the idea of higher fuel taxes on oil companies to help reduce pollution; as part of that, he suggested a corresponding cut in corporate income and payroll taxes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS GASOLINE PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CARTELS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); WITNESSES (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); AIR QUALITY (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HARKIN, TOM (SEN) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM HARKIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



547 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: George Bush's 60's Were Real, Too

BYLINE: By David Frum; David Frum is the author of "How We Got Here," a history of the 1970's.

 BODY:
In the spring of 1968, the same season in which George W. Bush graduated from Yale, the university's blue-collar workers went on strike. Similar strikes would shut down the school's dining halls later on, but not this time, thanks to students who crossed the picket lines to keep the kitchens cooking. Remember those students the next time somebody suggests that there was something odd about George W. Bush's noninvolvement in the student militancy of the 1960's.
The 60's were indeed a time of radical ferment. But that ferment was the work of a relative minority, larger at Al Gore's Harvard, smaller at George Bush's Yale. Richard Nixon and George Wallace together won almost 60 percent of the vote in 1968. Astute Democrats likewise knew which way the wind was blowing: Jimmy Carter, the lone Democrat to reach the White House in the two decades between the presidencies of Lyndon Johnson and Bill Clinton, defended Lieut. William Calley when he was tried for the My Lai massacre, calling him a scapegoat. As governor of Georgia, Mr. Carter even asked motorists to drive with their headlights on in daylight hours to show sympathy. 
 Young people, too, were more conservative than they are usually depicted. Indeed, polls during the Vietnam War consistently showed that young men, 18 to 24 years old, were the most hawkish segment of the population.
College students, it's true, hewed further to the left than did their non-collegian peers. But even on campus, the radical explosion of the 1960's gathered steam later and ended more abruptly than is usually recalled. Pick up a yearbook from any of the Ivy League colleges and look at the photographs of the class of 1968. With rare exceptions, you will see row after row of neatly shaven, short-haired, necktied young men. When Tom Wolfe visited the Yale campus a year or so later, he was startled by the sudden proliferation of overalls and blue jeans. He later observed that the whole place looked like a mining camp circa 1934.
What happened between the taking of those yearbook photos, sometime in 1967, and the spring of 1969? A change in the draft law exposed undergraduate men to a heightened risk of being sent unwillingly into the military. Until 1969, an educated man could feel reasonably sure of avoiding service. The huge size of the baby boom cohort offered the military many more 18-year-olds than it needed. In fact, a man's odds of being drafted in 1968, the year of the Tet offensive, were actually lower than in 1959, a peacetime year. Abundant manpower in turn made possible a generous system of student deferments.
After Tet, however, President Johnson -- motivated either by populist outrage or by vindictiveness against what he saw as his pampered critics -- severely limited student deferments. Suddenly students faced a real prospect of being sent to war. They reacted with fury.
Their fury lasted only as long as their exposure did. By fall 1971, President Nixon had withdrawn most ground combat units from Indochina, and radicals on campus and off were already lamenting the deflation of their "movement." Within 18 months, a peace pact was signed with the North Vietnamese. By then, the student protests seemed as distant to the newest Yalies as the world of Dink Stover.
So George W. Bush, Yale '68, is not clueless when he tells interviewers that he didn't see much of the radicalism of the 1960's. He is accurately representing the experience of his micro-generation.
His answer is telling in a more profound way as well. As posed by most journalists, the question -- "How could you have been untouched by the campus activism of the 1960's?" -- has a disingenuous edge to it. It pretends to be asking for information, but it conceals a reproach. The question assumes that any thoughtful, decent student ought to have been caught up in that radicalism -- as were Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton (albeit in his characteristically self-protective way) and, perhaps, the journalist himself or herself.
And what kind of assumption is that? The 1960's radicals were wrong about cutting off American arms and aid to South Vietnam, wrong about the larger struggle with the Soviet Union, wrong about the harmlessness of drugs, wrong about eliminating freshman composition from the college curriculum. Even Mr. Bush's rival for the presidency understands that, which may explain why he begins his Internet campaign biography with the arresting sentence, "Al Gore served in the U.S. Army in Vietnam."
Back in the 1970's, some French intellectual quipped that it was morally finer to have been wrong about the Soviet Union than to have been right. American politics, though, has less room for that kind of intellectual frivolity. It is not better to have been wrong than to have been right. Isn't it long past time that our memories of the 1960's accept that truth?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Richard Boynton/Wink)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STRIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); VIETNAM WAR (87%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); MEN (70%); CONSERVATISM (65%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); 

PERSON: FRUM, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); AL GORE (69%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



548 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Orbiter Spots Signs Of a Recent Flow Of Water on Mars

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21

 BODY:
A spacecraft orbiting Mars has sighted grooved surface features suggesting a relatively recent water flow on the planet, a finding that could redirect efforts to find evidence of past or present life there, experts said today.
NASA's Mars Global Surveyor, which has been conducting photographic surveys of the planet for more than two years, has spotted evidence of liquid water at, or near, the surface that could have flowed a few hundreds or thousands of years ago, a billion years later than previous estimates, the experts said. 
 The National Aeronautics and Space Administration scheduled a news conference for Thursday to discuss the findings after a day of speculation about the discovery in the news media. A paper describing the observations is to be published next week in the journal Science, but the journal's editors decided to release the information on Thursday because of the interest in the findings.
Neither NASA nor the authors of the report, including Dr. Michael C. Malin and Dr. Ken Edgett of Malin Space Science Systems of San Diego, would disclose details of the findings. But people familiar with the report said high resolution pictures from Global Surveyor clearly show channels and grooves on the steep, inside walls of craters that indicate the downward flow of liquid water.
These surface features appear to be evidence of water in the upper crust of Mars that has seeped through and run down the channels, said two experts familiar with the report who spoke on the condition that they not be named. Contrary to speculation about the findings, there is no clear evidence of standing pools of water or gushing springs on Mars, they said.
"The current climate of Mars would cause surface water to instantly freeze and vaporize into the atmosphere," one expert said.
Water is crucial to plans for exploring Mars with robot spacecraft to find evidence of life, and for possible visits by humans. The United States has ambitious Mars exploration plans that focus on finding water. Those plans are being revised after the failure of two spacecrafts last year.
Dr. Edward J. Weiler, NASA's chief scientist, said future orbiting and surface craft would search for water and the life it can sustain. "To find life on Mars, you have to follow the water," Dr. Weiler has said. "Without water, there was no life as we know it in the past, and there is no life now. It's all about the water."
Future spacecraft would be directed to areas where there is a high probability of finding water. Data from orbiters and landing craft would help researchers home in on those areas.
Water on Mars would also make human visits more likely and economical, experts said, because astronauts could drink it, and it could be broken down into oxygen to breathe and hydrogen to fuel rockets and generators.
Water has been detected on Mars in the form of ice trapped at the poles, but until now no evidence of it had been seen elsewhere. Because of the planet's extreme temperatures, with average surface temperatures of minus 60 degrees Fahrenheit, and an atmospheric pressure less than 1 percent that of Earth's, liquid water would not exist long on the surface before breaking down in the thin air and drifting into space.
But there is ample evidence of flowing water long ago on the planet, including channels and canyons formed by flowing rivers millions of years ago and indications of upswelling ground waters. And last year, scientists at Brown University said that they found evidence in Global Surveyor pictures, which are more than 20 times more detailed than any previous photographs, of a giant ocean that once existed in the northern lowlands.
An intriguing aspect of the newest findings is the possibility of water near the surface, instead of miles below as some have theorized. If water is a few feet below the surface, as early characterizations of the new data suggest, landing crafts could drill down to reach it, experts said.
Dr. Victor R. Baker, a hydrology expert and planetary scientist at the University of Arizona, said that if there was evidence of active water seepage in the new data, it would have wide implications. Dr. Baker, who had not seen the report, said that if water still flowed on Mars and escaped to the surface, it would need an underground heat source to keep it thawed and provide the energy necessary to force it to the surface. So far, no evidence of active volcanic or thermal activity has been found on the planet, he noted.
If water was flowing on Mars, he said, it would produce a cloud of vapor, as it dissipated under current surface conditions, that spacecraft instruments should be able to detect from orbit. "It should be fairly easy to confirm if there is major seepage going on now," Dr. Baker said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARS (99%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (PLANET); UNITED STATES (92%); MARS (99%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MARS GLOBAL SURVEYOR; LIFE, EXTRATERRESTRIAL SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); WRITERS (69%); ROBOTICS (50%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



549 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe's Campaign of Intimidation

 BODY:
In Zimbabwe's 20 years as an independent nation, one man has led it -- Robert Mugabe. He has never faced a serious challenge. But this weekend the country is to choose a new parliament, and polls show that the opposition would win a fair election. Zimbabweans may have decided that "Mugabe" and "Zimbabwe" should no longer be synonymous.
Mr. Mugabe has responded to the prospect of defeat with demagoguery, violence and intimidation. Gangs of his thugs roam the countryside, killing and beating opposition activists. The balloting and vote count may be flawed, as the government is limiting the number of election observers. The outside world, especially South Africa and Zimbabwe's smaller neighbors, must press Mr. Mugabe to end the violence, hold a clean vote and vote count and abide by the results. 
 Mr. Mugabe began his presidency by providing schools and health care to the poor, but over two decades he became an autocrat surrounded by corrupt and brutal men. One reason Zimbabwe has sent 11,000 troops to war in Congo, it is alleged, is that his generals profit from trading in Congo diamonds. The war costs Zimbabwe millions of dollars a month, while half the nation is unemployed.
Yet Mr. Mugabe has the support of all but 3 of Parliament's 150 members, and no strong opposition arose until last year, when the Movement for Democratic Change was born to take part in rewriting the Constitution. Mr. Mugabe's draft, which would have broadened his powers, lost in a popular referendum in February. Shaken by the defeat, he began exploiting the issue of land reform. All major parties endorse breaking up large farms, owned mainly by whites, and distributing the land to poor blacks. For 20 years Mr. Mugabe did little. Now, instead of beginning an orderly process with compensation for landowners, he has encouraged his supporters in the violent takeover of white-owned farms. They have killed one farmer and beaten dozens of black farm workers.
The bloodshed has spread. The opposition cannot campaign in much of the countryside. At least 29 of its candidates and backers have been killed, and many others raped or beaten, often as police stood by. Recently the government offered the opposition some air time and has begun to denounce violence, but has still made no real effort to stop the thugs.
It is now impossible for the election to be free. But the opposition is determined to participate and could win if Mr. Mugabe allowed the vote and vote count to proceed without fraud. This means calling off his thugs, sending out word not to meddle with ballots, and allowing all observers access to polling stations and the counting process.
The United States, Britain, the European Union and the Commonwealth nations should warn Mr. Mugabe that he and his cronies will lose visas for foreign travel and their overseas bank accounts if Zimbabwe's democracy dies. But Western nations are not trusted or beloved by most Zimbabweans. The most important voice is that of South Africa, which has been disappointingly silent. President Thabo Mbeki and the rest of southern Africa's presidents should speak out publicly, as Botswana has done. Southern African nations have a powerful interest in keeping Zimbabwe from political and economic collapse. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An editorial last Thursday misstated the number of white farmers in Zimbabwe who have been killed by President Robert Mugabe's supporters. The number is five, not one. And an editorial yesterday gave the wrong location for next month's economic summit meeting in Japan. It will be in Okinawa, not Osaka.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE; ; ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BALLOTS (77%); ELECTION MONITORING (77%); CORRUPTION (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); FARM LABOR (65%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); 

PERSON: MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) ROBERT GABRIEL MUGABE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



550 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: www.layoffs.com;
Internet Work Force Has Its First Brush With Downsizing

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 21

 BODY:
Laura Schmidt took an Internet job 10 months ago packed with promise: a big raise, stocks she figured could some day be worth $5 million and the chance at early retirement. Unfortunately, her leisure time came way too soon.
Three weeks ago, Ms. Schmidt received a pink slip from ThirdAge Media, a Web site for baby boomers, laid off in the Internet industry's first significant shakeout. As quickly and aggressively as they filled their cubicles last year, dozens of dot-coms across the country are unloading employees in an effort to meet a seemingly obvious goal heretofore put on indefinite hold: make a profit. 
 The layoffs signal an end to the unbounded optimism of some dot-com employees who flocked to start-ups in hopes of developing sudden wealth, but who now say they are approaching new job offers with more caution. And the very stock market that once held the keys to new wealth may now be equally responsible not just for lowered expectations, but for lost jobs.
Indeed, analysts say the reversal of fortune for many companies, and their employees, can be traced in part to the stock market turmoil on April 14. When the Nasdaq plunged that day, investors signaled they no longer would finance dot-coms that sought to grow at all costs, ignoring, at least temporarily, the concept that successful businesses take in more than they spend.
While lots of Internet businesses with sound strategies and healthy finances are continuing to thrive, the challenge these days for a number of e-commerce companies is simply to keep from going broke.
"Call it old fashioned, but at some point, these companies had to start making money," said Douglas Henton, president of Collaborative Economics, an economic advisory group in Palo Alto, Calif., who called the phenomenon a healthy shakeout in which some companies fail and others refine themselves. "At some point, they run out of money and they have to start laying off."
Companies that have had to lay off workers include lesser-known and big-name Web sites, like the health care site drkoop.com Inc. (50 employees laid off, or 35 percent), carOrder.com Inc. (100 layoffs, or 33 percent), an insurance site called InsWeb (100 planned, or 40 percent), the home-furnishing site living.com (50, or 13 percent), the search engine Alta Vista (50, about 6 percent) and more than two dozens other sites for a total of more than 2,000 employees.
And that does not include a growing number of dot-coms that have been subsumed in mergers or simply gone broke, including DEN.com, an entertainment site in Los Angeles that employed 200; APBnews.com, a New York-based crime news site with 140 workers; and toysmart.com, a Disney-backed toy retailer in Waltham, Mass., with 170 employees that shut down in May.
Earlier this year, even Amazon.com made layoffs, but the 150 people involved represented just 2 percent of its work force and that move preceded the market downturn that seems to be driving the latest layoff trend.
Executives at many of the companies still in business say that layoffs do not suggest they are desperately low on cash, but that they must plan for a future in which new infusions of capital are not as easily obtained as they have been in the two previous years. They say they are rewriting business models that had been predicated on obtaining quick public offerings, meaning that some are being forced to cut costs by terminating employees, who are the chief expense of many Internet enterprises.
"It was really hard," said T. Paul Thomas, president and chief executive of TurboLinux, a Linux operating system vendor in San Francisco, which cut roughly 50 of 300 employees last month. "The people we had to let go had been here an average of two or three months. But investors, public and private, are saying you can't just spend and spend. You have to get to profitability."
The good news, economists say, is that the human toll appears limited to individual dot-coms, that the number of employees laid off represents a small fraction of the hundreds of thousands of people of the Internet work force, and that nearly all of those who lost their jobs have skills that should help them easily obtain jobs with other technology companies.
"There aren't any signals the economy is in trouble," said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy. "The industry is doing well by any economic measure. This is a company phenomenon, not an industry-wide or economy-wide phenomenon."
Indeed, most dot-com employees seem surprisingly sanguine.
"This is an auspicious time," said Ms. Schmidt, 33, who spent 10 months as director of brand design for Third-Age Media, which cut 35 of its 140 jobs. "I live in San Francisco. I'm just glad it happened now rather than in two months when a lot more people will be looking for jobs."
She said she saw the layoff as an opportunity for an extended vacation before she starts her next job. But she also said she was looking at prospective employers with new scrutiny to make sure their business plan seemed viable.
"I would imagine that if I want a job by the end of next week, I'd have one," she said. But, she added, "I'm doing a lot more research than I did before."
Many others who have been laid off say that no sooner did they receive the news than they began interviewing again, sifting through offers, taking new jobs.
But not all of those receiving a pink slip are feeling rosy about the experience. One 26-year-old woman hired in February by an entertainment dot-com said she felt the company had misled her by suggesting she could "be retired by age 30." Instead, she was out of a job three months later, having lost all her stock options because she was not yet vested.
In retrospect, she said the company had used her, then quickly dismissed her when it came to its financial senses, and she said she was concerned that other entrepreneurs would make similar mistakes.
"People are very hopeful -- investors, employees -- and married with greed, you've got a perfect formula for a lot of shady companies," she said, requesting anonymity because she said she had signed an agreement not to discuss the circumstances of her departure from the company.
The woman said she was being very cautious when considering new offers, hoping to avoid a repeat of the situation. And that is a theme echoed not just by others who have been laid off, but also by recruiters who are placing dot-com employees in new jobs.
Jodi M. Milam, who owns Career Wave, a human resources consulting company in Chandler, Ariz., that focuses on placing Internet employees around the country, said the layoff phenomenon had become "epidemic" because so many companies were started without sound business plans.
Ms. Milam said the companies recruited employees with the promise that the companies would soon attract a next round of private financing, or even go public. But, Ms. Milam said, the entrepreneurs either were naive about their own prospects, or misleading the hires. They also seemed, she said, to lay off employees -- even those who pulled up stakes or were lured from other good jobs -- with little compunction.
"Business ethics have gone down the toilet," she said, adding that she wakes up with a stomachache every day because "I'm afraid of sending people to companies" that will go under.
But the companies say the layoffs represent a bona fide realization that they must be mindful of the bottom line and of what it takes to succeed in a harsher business climate. A number of the companies said the layoffs signaled an effort to shift directions, typically away from Internet businesses that focus on selling to consumers and into ventures that sell to other businesses.
An example is Alta Vista, a search engine company in Palo Alto, Calif., that in early May reduced its staff by 50 people, or about 6 percent. Though the site processes a remarkable 50 million search queries a day, the company decided that its long-term survivability rested not just on being a destination site but also in licensing its technology to businesses.
"We have done a slight shift in strategic positioning following the market turmoil," said David Emanuel, a company spokesman.
In other cases, businesses are shedding ambitious plans and renewing the narrow focus with which they began operations. InsWeb, in Redwood City, Calif., in announcing plans to lay off 40 percent of its 240 workers in the next six months, said it would return to its roots, becoming a marketplace for consumers seeking insurance, and scrap a number of other projects, according to Greg Jones, company spokesman.
The new focus means the end of the line at InsWeb for Steve Foster, 43, who quit a job in Los Angeles and moved north to take a job in November as InsWeb's vice president for marketing research. At the time, he said, it was "literally the zenith of dot-com times" and he negotiated a healthy raise and 19,000 shares of stock.
In the short term, it looked as if his gamble would pay off in a big way. The company's stock, $14 when he was recruited, jumped to $36 in January, giving him a gain in personal value "worth a quarter of a million right off the bat."
But Mr. Foster was laid off with 30 colleagues two weeks ago. The company's stock, meanwhile, has fallen to $3, making his options worthless.
Still, he says he bears no ill will toward the company, which he said had treated employees well and had never misled anyone about the prospects. And as to his lost fortune -- the few brief shining moments when his stock options ballooned in value -- he seems philosophical about that, too.
"I've been thinking I'll keep a single share and frame it," he said. "Just to keep the memory alive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2000, Friday June 30, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article and chart in Business Day yesterday about recent layoffs at Internet companies misstated the status of one company, APBnews.com. Although it announced on June 5 that it was out of money and was laying off all 140 employees, it has continued operations, recently found new financing and hired back about 30 workers.
In addition, the chart misstated the number of employees laid off by Salon.com. It was 13, not 19.
A chart in Business Day on June 22 with an article about recent layoffs at Internet companies reversed the labels on the stock performance of two companies, Salon.com and Insweb.com. From Jan. 3 to June 21, shares of Salon.com fell to $1.375 from $4.875; Insweb.com dropped to $2.75 from $25.75.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura Schmidt, the former director of brand design for ThirdAge Media in San Francisco, says she views her layoff from the company, a Web site for baby boomers, as an extended vacation before starting a new job. (Above, Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; left, Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Downsizing Dot-Coms"
Investors have sent a clear signal this year that they expect Internet companies to make money. As a result, the share prices of many companies have tumbled, some companies have folded and others have laid off employees.
 
APBnews.com*
WORKERS LAID OFF: 140
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 100
 
DEN.net*
WORKERS LAID OFF: 200
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 100
 
toysmart.com*
WORKERS LAID OFF: 170
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 100
 
InsWeb
WORKERS LAID OFF: 100
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 40
 
drkoop.com
WORKERS LAID OFF: 50
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 35
 
carOrder.com
WORKERS LAID OFF: 100
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 33
 
ThirdAge Media
WORKERS LAID OFF: 35
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 25
 
living.com
WORKERS LAID OFF: 50
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 13
 
Salon.com
WORKERS LAID OFF: 19
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 9
 
Alta Vista
WORKERS LAID OFF: 50
SHARE OF WORK FORCE: 6
 
*Out of business
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VITC (NASDAQ) (63%); PTNT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446191 FOOD (HEALTH) SUPPLEMENT STORES (63%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THIRDAGE MEDIA INC VITACOST.COM INC (63%); INTERNET PATENTS CORP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: THIRDAGE MEDIA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDUSTRY PROFILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LAYOFFS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); WEB SITES (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); TOYS & GAMES (60%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, LAURA; RICHTEL, MATT ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000



551 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4856 words

HEADLINE: Reaping What Was Sown On the Old Plantation;
A Landowner Tells Her Family's Truth. A Park Ranger Wants a Broader Truth.

SERIES: HOW RACE IS LIVED IN AMERICA: Eighth article of a series.

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: NATCHITOCHES, La.

 BODY:
At the south edge of Magnolia Plantation, eight simple cabins stood in a field of clover. Generations of whitewash were peeling from the mud-brick walls. All but one front porch had rotted away, and there were gaping holes where doors and windows used to be.
Hidden from the main house by rows of live oaks, the cabins had been forgotten by many and ignored by most. There was almost nothing left -- except the stories of the slaves who once lived in them. 
 Betty Hertzog hadn't been thinking about slavery when she agreed to go along with her rich friends' plans to turn part of her beloved Magnolia into a national park. She had been thinking about her family's land, and her struggle to hold onto it.
Ms. Hertzog's ancestors settled that fertile land at the south end of Cane River more than 200 years ago, and she had lived in the big house at Magnolia nearly all her life. She had too little money to keep it going, no children to pass it on to. Sometimes when she talked about her devotion to the land, it sounded almost like religion. "If you had land," she would say, "you were raised that it is very important, and that if you had it, you had to keep it."
To listen to Betty Hertzog is to feel the abiding power of Old South symbols. Slight but still sturdy at 70, Ms. Hertzog is reserved to the point of reclusiveness, happiest walking the plantation grounds alone. But she had come to believe that the new national park, with its droves of tourists, offered a way to hold onto the land -- to preserve her family's stories and teach future generations about the agricultural practices that made Magnolia the Goliath of Cane River when cotton was king.
Bobby DeBlieux hadn't been thinking about slavery, either, when he began his campaign to turn Magnolia's work buildings into a national park. He had just been trying to rescue his town.
He had been trying since he was mayor in the mid-1970's, and Natchitoches (pronounced NA-kuh-tish) was drying up: farms were dying, working families were fleeing, much of downtown was boarded shut.
"I knew that history was the key to turning the whole town around," said Mr. DeBlieux, 67, who owns the Tante Huppe Bed & Breakfast on Jefferson Street. "First people would want to come here to visit, and if they did, they would want to stay."
Mr. DeBlieux -- pronounced like the letter W -- doesn't look like an economic-development visionary. With his shock of cottony-white hair, his shirttails hanging over sagging jeans, he generally seems to have just rolled out of bed. But he was right. Before long, that ugly downtown had become a National Historic Landmark, a mile-long quarter of French Colonial buildings converted into antique shops, restaurants and souvenir emporiums. The tourists came, and they stayed, often in the 32 B & B's -- as people here will tell you, the most in the state.
Still, when Mr. DeBlieux and his preservationist friends thought about Natchitoches's larger possibilities, they tended to look down Cane River to Magnolia and its sister plantation, Oakland. The old places had gone to seed some, but with a little help and money from the National Park Service, they could make Natchitoches the Colonial Williamsburg of Louisiana.
In 1994, with some deftly applied pressure from Louisiana's senior senator at the time, J. Bennett Johnston -- Betty Hertzog's cousin by marriage -- Congress created the Cane River Creole National Historical Park. As for how slavery would fit in, Betty Hertzog hoped the Park Service wouldn't dwell on it too much.
"A lot of people around here have put slavery behind them," she said. "It is a part of the history here, and no one wants to ignore it. But I don't want them to talk about slavery and get stuck on that."
A little more than a year ago, though, she started to feel uneasy about the Park Service's plans. A new ranger, a black woman named Carla Cowles, had begun scratching around the old slave cabins.
Slavery was pretty much all Ms. Cowles was thinking about when she came to Cane River. A heavyset woman of 40 with a booming laugh laid over an edgy determination, Ms. Cowles (pronounced coals) had started her career at Colonial Williamsburg. But she came away with a very different ambition than Bobby DeBlieux's: to provide a face and a voice to the often-ignored stories of African slaves.
For a decade, in re-enactment and song, she had shown the violent fate of captured runaways and the pain of families torn apart, had explained how people treated as property had held onto humanity and hope. Magnolia's slave cabins, she thought, would be the perfect stage for her work.
"I'm here to tell the whole story," she said. "Some people might call it revisionist history, but I think what's been going on around here is a lot of revisionist history."
Stories, of course, have consequences. And from the beginning, what hardly anyone really counted on was how a new park, on a plantation that once had 260 slaves, might stir things up in a place where people had agreed long ago that the last thing they wanted to talk about was race.
When the Park Service held hearings about what kind of programs people wanted at the park, there was a lot of enthusiasm about restoring the old buildings. When slavery came up, there was silence.
"Speaking about slavery proved difficult for whites and blacks, and promised complications for park interpretation," the Park Service reported. "Blacks and whites treated slavery as a delicate, nearly taboo subject for public discussion."
 
The Role of a Lifetime
Betty Hertzog had spent weeks getting the big house ready for the Natchitoches Fall Pilgrimage of Historic Homes, and on opening day last October, it looked like a movie set. Sunlight cascaded over the portrait of Magnolia's patriarch, Ambrose LeComte 2nd, striking a dandy pose in his ascot and Colonial jacket. The Baccarat chandelier bought years ago in New Orleans was up in the grand foyer once again. The air was suffused with the history of Ms. Hertzog's ancestors -- it hung from every wall, filled every shelf -- and she wondered if she was doing her family proud.
"Daddy wouldn't have liked these tours, because he didn't like strangers roaming through his house," she said. "But you can't make a living from farming anymore. The tourists help pay to keep up this old place."
As an only child, she had always known she would someday take over Magnolia. But she had expected to live a little of her own life first. She was just out of college and heading to Houston to look for work when the call came. Her father had had a heart attack. Someone had to manage the harvest. "It was panic, pure panic," she said. "I really wasn't sure I could manage it the way Daddy did, but I had to try, or else we might lose it all."
So at 23, she traded her big-city dreams for a job at a local bank, and began her turn as caretaker of the land. No one asked her to stay. No one had to. Magnolia was simply not going to go the way of the other Cane River plantations, into strangers' hands.
But it has been more than 10 years since Ms. Hertzog oversaw a harvest. In the late 1980's, when the bottom fell out of cotton, she rented her fields to corporate growers. Soon, she began the house tours. And then, in the early 90's, her rich preservationist friends began talking about turning Magnolia's work buildings -- the slave cabins and hospital, the blacksmith shop and cotton gin -- into a national park.
On opening day of the fall festival, though, she talked about Magnolia's good times, not her own struggle. Dressed in a pink satin Civil War-era gown, she showed tourists the wooden clock rescued from the original big house, burned down by Union troops; the 1851 trophy won by the family's prize racer, an auburn thoroughbred named Flying Dutchman; and the chapel fashioned from an old workroom at the back of the manor.
Of the 700 tourists, all but 10 or so were white. One black visitor, 55-year-old Sam Dugar, had come looking for his own history. Mr. Dugar's father and grandfather had been sharecroppers at Magnolia, but till now he had avoided the place. As the tour ended, he said he felt cheated.
"All I kept thinking was that they accumulated all this wealth because of the blacks who worked here," he said. "But there was nothing on the tour about black people. It's as if their place in history was erased."
Betty Hertzog insists she is not trying to erase history. "We are showing this house," she explained. "I try to talk about what's here, and the history that I am aware of. The slaves didn't have a lot of records, and so you don't know who was here and where they all were on the place." If visitors are interested, she tells them the slave cabins are out there, on the Park Service's portion of the land.
Besides, she says, talk of slavery can offend. Her cousin Ambrose recalled a black visitor who demanded back her $5 admission after learning that the house was still owned by the original slaveholding family. "She was yelling so loud, I could hear her from my house," said Mr. Hertzog, who lives next door. "I was wondering, what does that woman know about Betty? The days of owning slaves was long ago."
Certainly, Ms. Hertzog says, it was not right for humans to be held as property. But she feels no shame. "The government has given them every opportunity in the world," she said, "so stop complaining about the past and go out and do something."
She has a low opinion of the idea, embraced by some black intellectuals and politicians, of reparations for slaves' descendants. "I think they should be grateful they got their freedom back then," she said. "I think they ought to be glad they are Americans, living in a free country. The more of that stuff that gets stirred up, the more hate there will be on both sides."
From the little she has learned, she says, her family did not mistreat its slaves. A Northwestern State University historian has found no evidence of abuse or neglect, though a set of ankle stocks was evidence of punishment. A Park Service archaeologist also told her that the two-family brick cabins were larger and more comfortable than the log dwellings on other plantations. And inventories show that Magnolia's slaves had more balanced diets than others in the area.
Strolling among the cabins one evening, Ms. Hertzog said that in her mind, slavery looked a lot like the lives of the sharecroppers -- slaves' descendants she remembered from childhood, who worked the land for part of the crop. To this day, that is the only way she has known blacks. Even after the last families left the cabins in 1968, she continued to employ a few black workers.
"That's just the way things have always been," she said. "Each group had different networks, I guess."
Some black old-timers, she says, have told her that their years at Magnolia were the best of their lives. While segregation governed life in town, she says, on Magnolia blacks and whites raced horses together and played on the plantation baseball team, the Black Magnolias. She knew that black children would not have the same opportunities as whites. "But for them," she said, "that's the way life was and they accepted it."
As for Magnolia's slaves, she knew some of their stories would be told at the new park. But she wanted those stories to reflect her family's hardships and kindnesses as well. Which was why she was getting so worried about the Park Service's plans.
Ms. Hertzog almost never talked directly about Carla Cowles. And for more than a year after Ms. Cowles arrived, Ms. Hertzog never met with her. "I guess I have just been too busy," she said.
But she complained a lot about the Park Service, and said she had heard Ms. Cowles and her boss were giving tours and talking about slaves who had never even lived on Cane River. She had been led to believe the park would be devoted to agriculture, she said, but increasingly it seemed the emphasis would be on slavery, on portrayals bound to vilify her family. She felt betrayed.
"That's the way people from other places feel about the South anyway," she said, "so I don't doubt it a bit."
 
An Outlet for the Anger
"When we learn about history, we are often told about kinder, gentler times," Carla Cowles was telling a tour group at the cabins. (Though the park won't open officially for a year or two, she has begun giving tours of the work buildings and cabins.) "We are taught to think about the lives of the rich and glamorous, not about the common, everyday people -- people like you and you and you."
"How many children do you have, sir?" she went on, turning to a man in the crowd.
He held up two fingers.
"If you lived here, with your two kids, would work be all that you did in your life?" she asked.
"No, I would have to take care of my kids."
"Well, the people who lived here couldn't even do that. Their children could be taken from them at any time and sold away."
This is the kind of simple exchange that Ms. Cowles uses to pull her audience into the lives of the mothers and fathers, cooks and carpenters who lived in bondage. The history of slavery is so painful and mind-bending, she says, that teaching anything meaningful in an hour seems impossible. So she makes it personal, makes the tourists become slaves, if only for one mental moment.
It was just such a moment that set her on the road to Cane River. In 1989, with a 16th-century literature degree from the University of Virginia and yet another dead-end job, she answered an ad for a job at Colonial Williamsburg: "Talk about black history and get paid," it said. It sounded promising -- except for having to portray slaves.
Growing up in Williamsburg, the daughter of a millworker and a teacher's aide, she had revered America's civil rights leaders. She had watched her mother, who never graduated from junior high, fight to get her children into Advanced Placement classes. And in college, which she remembers as "a sea of whites," Ms. Cowles organized sit-ins to demand more minority professors.
She saw no spirit of rebellion in slavery. "I was like a lot of people who think slaves were weak, and I didn't want to portray weakness," she said.
Her bosses at Colonial Williamsburg persuaded her to try. She started off in secondary roles, singing songs that showed "the lighter side of slavery." Later, in a burlap costume, she portrayed a slave named Secundia, who had just learned that her mother had died on another plantation.
"I was singing to my dead mother," she recalled, "saying how we were so busy working in the fields that I never had time to tell her I loved her."
The experience, she says, was transforming. Suddenly, the slaves she had studied in documents came to life and had her face. Their history became her cause. And her portrayal of Secundia got her a job at the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in St. Louis, organizing programs about the Dred Scott Decision, which barred slaves and their descendants from citizenship.
About a year ago, Ms. Cowles was assigned to develop the Cane River historical and community outreach programs. She imagines the old cabins as a "living, breathing slave community," complete with people in costume portraying slaves.
She expected some resistance. She had read the reports from all the public hearings. Early on, she turned to Frankie Ray Jackson, a black former school-board member, for help in navigating people's sensitivities. As for Bobby DeBlieux and his friends, she had little to do with them; at one meeting she did attend, she asked why she was the only black person there. And she never knocked on Betty Hertzog's door. She just hadn't had the time, she said.
It's not that Ms. Cowles doesn't often deal with whites in Natchitoches. She speaks warmly of her boss, Laura Soulierre, who has encouraged her pursuit of slave history. She gets along well with the park volunteers, most of whom are white. And she deals comfortably with white tourists, putting them at ease when they make clumsy comments about slavery.
"We can't heal old wounds until we look at the way life was and all its problems," she often says.
Yet for all the healing power of history, it has increasingly channeled her racial anger. When she talks about that anger, she casts back in her mind -- to the St. Louis landlord who at first refused her an apartment because she was black; to the man who called her a "pickaninny" as she guided him through Colonial Williamsburg in her slave costume; to the grade-school teacher who tried to fail her for refusing to pick a hero from a list of white American leaders.
Today, away from work, she leads an essentially black life. She dates a black man who calls himself a separatist. And though she says she does not share those views, she has had only two white friends. She tries not to wallow in anger, but the more she learns about slavery, the more she regards the old plantation elite with suspicion and reproach.
"It is almost impossible, living as a black person in America, and as a person who has studied so much about slavery, not to be angry about the injustices done to black people," she said.
She avoids talking directly about Betty Hertzog, just as Ms. Hertzog will not talk directly about her. She speaks of no one in particular when expressing resentment at the "furniture and antiques" tours popular around town. And while she is offended at the wealth that plantation owners accumulated on the backs of slaves, she is disturbed more, she says, by whites who ignore the less noble truths of their families' pasts.
"They don't have to say, 'I'm sorry,' " she said. "But if you remain silent about it, then you have blood on your hands, too."
 
A Social Contract of Silence
Last fall, for the first time, a black man ran for mayor of Natchitoches. He was a vice president at the local university and a six-term councilman. Many whites quietly talked of supporting him; polls predicted record black turnout. Then the candidate, John Winston, started talking about race, with the slogan, "Let's make history! Let's elect the first black mayor."
That didn't go over too well. White callers to the "Talk Back Natchitoches" radio show worried that Mr. Winston would not serve all equally. Some criticized him for making race an issue. White support faded.
In the end Mr. Winston lost, by 63 votes, to a white anesthesiologist named Wayne McCullen. More than 95 percent of Mr. Winston's supporters were black; more than 95 percent of Mr. McCullen's were white. Both men agreed there had been a backlash over the race issue, and Mr. Winston has had second thoughts about his slogan.
"When it comes to race, the truth gets twisted to mean a lot of different things," he said. "And so most people just prefer not to talk about it."
Public discussion of race is never easy, anywhere. But in this town of 17,000 in central Louisiana, not talking about race is at the heart of a social contract, rooted in the slave-owning past, that governs all sorts of black-white relationships -- or nonrelationships. Whatever the inner tensions, Natchitoches has tended to get along.
Black and white Natchitoches are separate worlds of roughly equal size. (The black half generally includes the mixed-race Creoles, though socially and politically they float in between.) Whites live east of Fifth Street, blacks west. Natchitoches Junior High is mostly black; the junior high at St. Mary's Catholic School is mostly white. On Sundays, blacks fill the all-you-can-eat buffet near the Wal-Mart; whites crowd restaurants on the historic waterfront.
Though there are a handful of influential blacks, economic and political power rests in white hands. Indeed, even if Mr. Winston had won, he would have had less power than the three well-endowed, and virtually all-white, private committees that turned Natchitoches into a tourist town. Whites own all the new businesses in the landmark district. In this place where so much revolves around history, the history it tends to revolve around is white Colonial history.
"The thing is, blacks think this historic district is white elite," Bobby DeBlieux said. "Well it is. But it's not because we designed it that way. It's sad, but black people here segregate themselves."
Blacks do not dispute those facts. They just give them a different spin. "It's true that blacks have not gotten involved in the historic things," said Clifford Blake, who owns a po' boy shop. "I had a chance to open up a place on the waterfront, but I didn't do it because it seemed like it was too white-dominated, and I didn't believe they really wanted blacks involved."
To local preservationists, the racial climate reflects Natchitoches's history as a "cultural island" in the South. From its founding by French traders in 1714, they maintain, its colonists were more accepting of other races than the British were, and generally kinder to slaves. Natchitoches, they say, is the best place to tell "a side to slavery most people have never seen."
"People here have always gotten along and respected one another," Mr. DeBlieux said, adding, "Maybe there's no social closeness now, but there's no tensions."
Even through the turmoil of the civil rights movement, Natchitoches was calm; there were no protests, and a single brief boycott. But silence, Mr. Winston and other blacks say, has been less a matter of contentment than ingrained reticence. They recall the one time Natchitoches did come close to open confrontation.
Back in 1927, a white plantation owner had given the city a bronze statue of a slave tipping his hat and bowing his head in greeting. A plaque said the statue had been erected "in grateful recognition of the arduous and faithful service of the good darkies of Louisiana," and whites saw it as a symbol of their enlightened view of slavery.
For 40 years the Good Darkey stood on Front Street. But in 1968, as civil rights protests gripped the South, young blacks vowed to bomb it, calling it an abominable symbol of servitude. In the end, after a meeting with the mayor, blacks stood down and the Good Darkey went gently, removed by officials late one September night.
There was a sense of victory among blacks, and integration came peacefully. But that progress, many blacks say, has gone only so far. They remain in their separate world, profoundly wary of whites.
Across Cane River from the new park is St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church, organized 133 years ago by freed slaves. Even today, says the pastor, the Rev. Leo Walker, many in his congregation are struggling to overcome generations of distrust.
"A lot of them harbor deep anger about things that happened to them or their ancestors in the past," he said, "and they honestly believe that no whites can go to heaven."
 
A Son of 'the Quarters'
Leslie Vercher winced whenever he heard people call Magnolia's brick cabins "slave quarters." They had once been his home.
His father was born and raised in the cabins, and his family did not move off Magnolia until the late 1960's. Those people were not slaves, he pointed out. They were the Hertzogs' employees, and they called their homes "the quarters."
But when pressed to think about any ancestors who lived there as slaves, this fireplug of a man looked as if he might become physically ill. He refused to watch movies like "Roots" or "Amistad," and rejected the term "African-American" because he had never known any relatives from Africa. Certainly some black people on Cane River were interested in seeing slave stories, however painful, resurrected at the new park. But Mr. Vercher saw slavery only as a shameful part of the past, and tried to wipe it from his mind.
"I don't want to hear about my people being beaten and raped," he said, with his Cajun twang and willful scowl. "Let it go."
But in a twist of fate -- he sometimes saw it as a divine trick played by his late father -- Mr. Vercher, 35, was now working for the Park Service, restoring the cabins. For a black man, especially one with a ninth-grade education, it was one of the best jobs on Cane River, with decent pay and benefits for his common-law wife and two sons.
His father, Ellis, had been happy that the cabins were going to become part of a new national park. The son was still coming to terms with the idea.
Ellis Vercher was one of Betty Hertzog's father's chief hands, and the family -- there were 12 children -- lived in the cabin at the end, the one with the porch still on the front. Ellis Vercher was always proud to say he was reared on a plantation, as if it gave more meaning to the five-bedroom house he built when the family moved away. And he tried to instill that feeling in his children.
"I don't mind being out here," Leslie Vercher said, "because I feel my daddy when I'm here."
Asked what he thought life was like for slaves, he frowned and said, "Hell, what you think?" But then he thought again about his father. There were indeed hard times, when they would work all season and not make a cent. But there were also good times -- cookouts, horse races and dances at the company store -- and good friends.
"I found a marble the other day and it felt funny in my hand," Mr. Vercher said. "I thought to myself, 'I bet my daddy played with this marble.' "
 
Bringing Up Slavery
A wintry chill hung over Cane River the November evening Carla Cowles brought slavery back to Magnolia Plantation.
For the opening of an exhibit called "Free at Last," Ms. Cowles had invited two black historical interpreters from Arkansas to perform skits showing slave life through fables and song. "We are going to be talking about things that are uncomfortable," she told the audience gathered at the cabins. "We are going to show you how people endured the institution called slavery."
Discomfort had been swirling through town ever since a notice appeared in The Natchitoches Times the week before. Ms. Cowles had enlisted her boss to deliver Betty Hertzog's invitation -- "I have had very little contact with Miss Betty," she explained -- and Ms. Hertzog seemed leery about the whole thing. "You can never tell," she said. "It might just be a bunch of stereotypes."
Leslie Vercher was also worrying about stereotypes. "It's easy for Carla to talk about slavery because she don't come from here," he said. "I don't think it would be so easy for her to tell those stories if she was talking about her own people."
Ms. Cowles had invited all 15 schools in the area. But while teachers at three schools accepted, the rest did not respond.
She shrugged it off at first. With such short notice, there probably hadn't been time to arrange transportation. Then she heard that Samuel Jackson, a black man who is principal of Natchitoches Junior High, was worried the performance might ignite racial tensions. She went to see him, to explain that everything would be handled with great sensitivity. But he stood firm.
Mr. Jackson said he had worked hard to keep the peace at his school, where more than 70 percent of the students are black and almost all the whites are bused in by court order. Just a few weeks earlier, he said, a white student had shown up wearing a T-shirt with a drawing of Ku Klux Klansmen and the words, "We were the original Boys in the Hood." A black student had come to school upset that a local white fraternity was planning a mock slave auction. Exposing students to slave re-enactments, Mr. Jackson said, would be like throwing a match into gasoline.
"I am afraid you would have white students making fun of the way black people talked, and then blacks might respond in a combative way," he said. "It could fester into a big problem."
In the end, about 70 people -- black and white -- showed up that evening. Leslie Vercher, anxieties and all, stood in back, pacing and puffing hard on a cigarette. Betty Hertzog came, too. If the story of slavery was going to be told, she said, she was going to make sure it was accurate.
The two performers, Curtis Tate and Daryl Minefee, leapt into the spotlight. They wore tattered pants, bright shirts and oversize shoes. Their stage was a bench. Mr. Tate stood on top, joking like a country bumpkin. Mr. Minefee, wearing that same foolish grin, sat playing an African drum.
First, Mr. Tate told several fables set in Africa. Then he transported the audience to America, and told a story about a slave beaten by an overseer for bringing her baby along to the cotton fields.
"The overseer was full of the master's whiskey," Mr. Tate growled, flailing one arm as if cracking a whip, "and when he saw that baby he started whippin' that girl, and whippin' that girl until she and the baby started to bleed."
But instead of returning to the fields, the woman ran to a wise elder who began chanting an African incantation, and all the slaves flew happily away.
For the finale, Mr. Tate portrayed a slave named Luther and his master, James McVicar. Luther had learned to read and write, but kept it secret for fear of punishment. The year was 1849, and one day he blurted out something from the morning paper about a gold rush in California. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (90%); SLAVERY (89%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); FAMILY (74%); CHILDREN (72%); MAYORS (66%); 

PERSON: BETTY HERTZOG (85%); BOBBY DEBLIEUX (79%); CARLA COWLES (59%); 



552 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 29; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 3407 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Shimmering With Fantasy and Ambition

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
My earliest memories of Los Angeles are the wisecracks of the old radio comedians. Fred Allen, as I recall, described this as "a nice place to live, if you happen to be an orange," and Oscar Levant said that when you stripped away the tinsel here, you uncovered more tinsel.
I formed an indelible picture of L.A. noir from Bogart and Bacall in "The Big Sleep," Howard Hawks's sardonic, hard-boiled tale of spoiled rich girls, con men, gunmen and other rogues, which William Faulkner and others adapted from Raymond Chandler's novel. Later, on television, I watched Jack Webb, as the laconic Sgt. Joe Friday in "Dragnet," probe the city's underbelly. 
 More than anywhere else in America, Los Angeles has been defined by popular culture -- that is, by the entertainment industry, which is based, after all, in Hollywood. Most of us, even people who live here, carry show-business images of Southern California around in our heads. But they are mere fragments of reality, snippets of grainy black-and-white or gaudy Technicolor, and splicing them together into an accurate picture is a tall order.
One might begin with the idea of the place. For several generations of Americans it has been a 20th-century Eden, a garden at continent's edge where almost anything seemed possible. Today much of it is a paradise defiled, spoiled by sprawl, smog and selfishness. Fires and mudslides, repeated riots and the Northridge earthquake have scarred landscapes and psyches.
Splendors remain -- and not just the chicks on Melrose Avenue and the biceps boys on the beach at Venice. Contemplate the Santa Monica mountains at dusk, wade into the surf at Malibu, glide through the tunnel of lavender-blue jacaranda blossoms on Palm Drive in Beverly Hills in May and June or walk along the placid residential streets of Pasadena, past glorious Arts and Crafts houses by the brothers Charles and Henry Greene, set on broad lawns maintained only by heroic irrigation and the sweat of Mexican gardeners, and you will understand the lasting allure of this vast, inchoate metropolis by the Pacific.
There are days when hibiscus, jasmine and oleander scent the air, and you imagine yourself in Grasse, the perfume town on the Riviera, as my wife, Betsey, did on our last visit. There are days when the air is so acrid with exhaust fumes that your eyes sting.
Los Angeles has always traded in glamour and illusion, ephemeral merchandise that is here today and gone tomorrow, like movie sets and the sex appeal of leading ladies. "The back lot was 30 acres of fairyland," wrote F. Scott Fitzgerald in "The Last Tycoon," "not because the locations really looked like African jungles and French chateaux and schooners at anchor and Broadway at night, but because they looked like the torn picture books of childhood, like fragments of stories dancing in an open fire."
Yes, this is a fairyland, the home of hype and hyperbole, and it was also the home of two of the important presidents of the latter half of the last century, Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan. Their libraries are nearby, Mr. Nixon's in Yorba Linda, where he was born, Mr. Reagan's in Simi Valley.
Colonized in 1781, as El Pueblo de Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles de Porciuncula, Los Angeles had but 102,479 people in 1900. A half-century later, it had 1,970,358 and by 1996 the city and the satellites that surround it, spilling over mountains and stretching out into the desert, were approaching 16 million. By 2025, demographic experts say, the region will grow by another six million people, roughly twice the present population of Chicago.
Metropolitan Los Angeles already covers 34,000 square miles.
Explosive growth is creating a radically different society. While the area's black and non-Hispanic white populations remain relatively stable, its Asian and Hispanic populations are skyrocketing. Drive down the streets in and around the center of the city -- yes, ye skeptics, there is one -- and you see signs written in a Babel of languages and alphabets: Korean and Hindi, Lao and Japanese, Thai and Vietnamese, Russian and Spanish and Portuguese.
The Los Angeles Unified School District is the nation's second biggest, after New York's, with 713,000 pupils; for 70 percent, English is a second or third language, if spoken at all. In the lifetime of most of those students, whites will be a minority in the city and in the state.
Not surprisingly, Mayor Richard J. Riordan has made education his top priority. He succeeded last year in gaining control of the school board, but pushing through reforms has proved harder than building the new Staples Arena or landing the Democratic National Convention, which will take place there in August. The dropout rate in the district is twice the statewide average.
As did immigrants in New York in the 20th century, newcomers give Los Angeles much of its kinetic energy. But they present tremendous challenges. For the foreseeable future, the region will need to build 25,000 new housing units a year, and partly because of the city's seemingly unstoppable expansion, the state needs 300,000 new teachers almost at once.
 
Castles, Real and in the Air
"People here are more insecure than most," said Allison Silver, the New Jersey-born opinion editor of The Los Angeles Times. "They come here in search of new identities, and they sense that this place out at the end of the line is the last chance that they will ever get to reinvent themselves."
That has its good side and its bad side. When Tom Bradley was mayor, he said Southern California provided people with "a place where they can be free, where they can do things they can't do anywhere else." Such as wearing purple hair or founding sects, both religious (like Aimee Semple McPherson's) and political (like the John Birch Society). They cut themselves loose from the restraints of tradition, obligation, even family.
Not everyone makes it, and not very many who make it keep it. For every fabulous fortune, there are graveyards full of shattered dreams. So people don't hold back. If you have a body, you flaunt it; if you have money, you spend it. Buy a Bentley (and take it to the Bel Air or the Peninsula for lunch so people can see it) and build a narcissist's castle.
Angelenos create and they innovate. They launch fads. Eccentricity reigns, as Ogden Nash observed: "Yes, it is true, Los Angeles is not only erratic, not only erotic, Los Angeles is crotchety, centrifugal, vertiginous, esoteric and exotic." Carey McWilliams, who knew the place well, described it as "a circus without a tent."
The zaniest zaniness of all is the city's love-hate relationship with its cars. "Hand wash" shops are everywhere. People drive two blocks to buy a loaf of bread; go slowly, exquisitely mad in freeway traffic jams and show up an hour and a half late (or a half-hour early) for dinner. Hertz feels compelled to warn those who rent its vehicles here, "Unfortunately, many Californians are in a hurry and usually ignore yellow lights (and sometimes red lights)."
In "L.A. Story," Steve Martin had a hilarious go at the car culture, putting pedestrians in gas masks. He lampooned the city's mania for decaf, diets and nose jobs, its compulsive consumption and its linguistic primitivism. He made even the traffic signals speak Valley: "Uh, Like, Don't Walk."
But nutty or not, the place still makes converts. Michael Karnow, a comedy writer, grew up in Washington, the son of a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and journalist, Stanley Karnow, and graduated from Harvard. Since he moved here nine years ago, he has become an improbable Jamba Juice junkie -- "I have their number on my speed dial" -- and guzzles power boost and wheat grass drinks "to increase mental agility." He's into yoga and he's learning to surf.
 
So Hard to Unify
But with so many people panning for gold here, so many people from somewhere else, Los Angeles itself suffers from an identity crisis. It is not so much a city as a concatenation of cities, from Anaheim to Azusa and Cucamonga, as they said on Jack Benny's show. Now more than ever, under the pressure of demographic and economic change, it is hard to unify.
The oil and aircraft industries have all but disappeared as bulwarks of the regional economy, and most of the formerly influential banks have been merged into out-of-town institutions. Even The Los Angeles Times, once a pillar of the city's civic architecture under the stewardship of the Chandler family, has been sold to the Tribune Company, a Chicago media conglomerate.
These seismic shifts have weakened the city's power structure. Barry Munitz, president of the J. Paul Getty Museum, probably the pre-eminent local cultural institution, compared today's Los Angeles to a ball poised at the top of an incline -- stuck up there because of "a lack of enough educational, artistic, civic, economic and social leaders ready to shoulder the burdens."
The Los Angeles Police Department, its once-mythic reputation in tatters, is struggling to eradicate rampant corruption. Already battered by evidence of officers' planting evidence, lying in court and shooting unarmed suspects, Chief Bernard C. Parks suffered an additional tragedy and humiliation recently when his granddaughter was murdered in the city his men protect.
With expansion of the city's rudimentary subway system stalled, several sections of the city are studying the possibilities of secession.
Some say that the vernacular architecture, indeed the only architecture, of Los Angeles is the ticky-tacky bungalow. But in fact this is a place full of architectural fascination, ranging from things that look exactly like what they are -- the Tail o' the Pup hot dog stand, an oversize stucco and sheet-metal wiener, and the Capitol Records tower, shaped like a stack of 45's -- to things that evoke a world that never was, like Mann's (formerly Grauman's) ornate Chinese Theater, whose like never graced the streets of Old Cathay.
In the old downtown, along Broadway, which is as animated as the new downtown is sterile, stand the Bradbury Building (1896), chaste tan brick on the outside, lacy metalwork and skylighted sparkle inside, and the Grand Central Market (1917), a survival of the city's past, where the ethnic stew of its present simmers. Lawyers and construction workers, African- and Mexican- and Asian-Americans, crowd the aisles, buying tin toys and purslane and chop suey and (if they're smart) following the crowds to Roast to Go, which has been dispensing the city's best tacos since 1952 -- soft tortillas filled with hand-chopped pork (or hog maw or tripe, as you will) with hot red sauce.
The Gamble House in Pasadena (1908), with its Japanese-influenced woodwork of unmatched elegance, is the Arts and Crafts masterpiece of the Greene brothers. Art Deco landmarks stand along Wilshire Boulevard, including the zigzag Moderne tower of the old Bullocks department store (1928). For the Public Library downtown (1930), topped with a gilded hand holding aloft the torch of truth, Bertram G. Goodhue adopted a more pared-down if richly allusive Deco style, and in the Textile District, Robert Derrah produced a streamlined Moderne icon for Coca-Cola (1937), a bottling plant masquerading as a cream-and-scarlet ocean liner, complete with portholes, gangways and a flying bridge.
Frank Lloyd Wright did some of his best work in the hills and canyons on the north side of town. Two of his buildings are open episodically to the public: the low-lying Hollyhock House (1920), containing much of its original furniture, and the Ennis-Brown House (1924), a "Mayan" temple in patterned concrete block, clinging to a cliff overlooking the city, whose preservation has been the life's work of Gus Brown, a former labor union official.
A pair of Viennese-born architects, Richard Neutra and Rudolph Schindler, created what we know as the California style. Neutra's Lovell House (1929), near the Ennis-Brown House, is a stack of gray-and-white steel-and-stucco planes jutting from a hillside, perhaps as good a modern building as California has. It remains a private residence, but the innovative little house that Schindler designed for himself in Hollywood in 1921, a series of rooms made of cheap, utilitarian materials (concrete, canvas, composition board) with sliding walls that open onto gardens has been turned into a museum house.
 
Seminal Gehry Buildings
Frank O. Gehry, the architect of the moment, triumphant in Bilbao, planning great things for New York, lives here and has done some of his seminal buidings here, starting with a minimalist Hollywood studio for Lou Danziger (1964) and continuing with the Dutch-gabled cottage in Santa Monica that he rebuilt in 1978 (what must the neighbors have said?), using plywood and chain-link.
Flamboyant though he sometimes is, Mr. Gehry can also work almost anonymously. He turned a police department garage into the Geffen Contemporary, a highly successful branch of the Museum of Contemporary Art, with a simple series of baffles and platforms, and he opened the formerly dark and disorganized Norton Simon Museum into a sunny, free-flowing series of galleries. His Disney concert hall, some critics think, may well cap his career.
But until the hall is completed, the building all Los Angeles wants to see is Richard Meier's Getty Center, a series of interconnected travertine and enameled aluminum pavilions on an isolated hilltop near the western end of Sunset Boulevard. From afar, it looks like a village on a Greek island; up close, it, too, evokes the mystique of an ocean liner. Different levels linked by railed gangways feel like different decks, and fountains project the sound of splashing water everywhere.
About 1.75 million people a year visit the Getty, and many of them come just to see the gardens and the views. It is chic in certain circles in Los Angeles to say that the pictures aren't up to the building, but people who have bothered to look at them don't say that. Not people who like Masaccio and Mantegna, or F. X. Winterhalter, that sadly underesteemed portraitist of empire. Surely not students of Rembrandt, represented here by two of his most vibrant portraits. And van Gogh's "Irises" could seduce a stone.
In Pasadena, the great names march with no less majesty through the halls of the Simon: Giovanni di Paolo, Bellini, van Gogh again (his best "Mulberry Tree"), Cezanne, Klee; reaching a climax in Zurbaran's exquisite "Still Life With Lemons, Orange and a Rose." It is one of the world's choice small collections. A mile or so away, in manicured San Marino, the Huntington Library offers great manuscripts, a Greene and Greene collection, thousands of roses and Gainsborough's famous "Blue Boy." Some year soon it will place on view this continent's greatest assemblage of works by the English designer and polymath William Morris, purchased last year from a California collector.
The biggest museum in town, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, is a work in progress, with a major building program incomplete. Only 36 years old, it has put together an encyclopedic collection of some 150,000 works of art, including an extensive group of German Expressionist paintings, but it of course cannot match the Getty's staggering finanical resources. The Museum of Contemporary Art, whose red sandstone headquarters was the Japanese architect Arata Isozaki's first American commission, has acquired more than 120 works in the last year in a bid to keep pace with its rival up north, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, which has spent $125 million in two years.
Locals bemoan the fact that Los Angeles, almost alone among world-class cities, failed to mount a gala celebration of the new millennium. They decry the city's lack of a professional football team, which in the eyes of some puts L. A. behind Charlotte, Nashville and Jacksonville. And they complain about the teams the city does have, which lose so often that sports columnists call the city Loss Angeles. This year's N.B.A. championship, won by the Lakers under the avuncular coach Phil Jackson, was the city's first title in 11 years.
 
The Hollywood Industry
Of course there is always Hollywood. The city's most visible industry is film, its natural vocabulary melodramatic. From D. W. Griffith to Marilyn Monroe to Steven Spielberg, film has carried Hollywood values around the globe. Television joins in the pop culture wars, portraying an unreal world filled with youth, beauty and virility.
Legions of gawkers flock to Hollywood Boulevard, hoping like the hicks in Nathanael West's memorable Hollywood novel, "The Day of the Locust," to catch a glimpse of a celebrity. As the critic Shelley Fisher Fishkin writes in a forthcoming book, "Landmarks of American Literature," these are people, "cheated out of their dreams by the illusions Hollywood held out to them," for whom "movies and the world that surrounds them are more real than life itself."
But the city need make no apology for its grander artistic life, even if New Yorkers and San Franciscans often talk as if culture in Southern California were confined to yogurt. Hollywood actors and directors do not often lend their talents to the legitimate stage in Los Angeles; many limit their work to the movies, and some prefer the London or New York theater. But there are exceptions. Last summer, stars like Donald Sutherland, Al Pacino and Kelly McGillis were seen at the Mark Taper Forum and Ahmanson Theater in productions of plays by Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt, O'Neill and Shakespeare.
Not until the arrival in 1984 of Peter Hemmings, a gentlemanly English arts administrator, did the city have an opera company. Mr. Hemmings, 65, is retiring as general director of the Los Angeles Opera at the end of this season, to be replaced by Placido Domingo, who will carry the title of artistic director, as he does in Washington. He is bowing out with Francesca Zambello's eye-filling production of Benjamin Britten's mordant "Billy Budd."
Though criticized for excessive caution, Mr. Hemmings nurtured the company through adolescence and lured some big Tinseltown talents, including the painter David Hockney and the director Herb Ross, to the Chandler Pavilion as designers and directors. And he did it on an annual budget of $20 million, compared with San Francisco's $50 million and the Met's $170 million.
 
Philharmonic's New Home
The disconnnect between high culture and pop culture in Los Angeles has been most visible in the 10-year struggle to build the Walt Disney Concert Hall -- another fascinating swirl of titanium designed by Mr. Gehry. The money has finally been raised, the foundations are going in, and the Los Angeles Philharmonic is scheduled to take up residence in 2002. But except for the Walt Disney Company, none of the studios, whose executives make hundreds of millions of dollars a year, and very few of the stars contributed a single dime.
Without the exertions of the city's No. 1 supporter of the arts, Eli Broad, who heads the SunAmerica company, the fund-raising drive might well have foundered. Mr. Broad (the name is pronounced to rhyme with "road") made his money on annuities, not movies, and he collects modern art.
Conducted by the glamorous young Finn Esa-Pekka Salonen, managed by the highly regarded Deborah Borda, who resigned from the New York Philharmonic to come here, the Philharmonic plays 30 weeks in downtown Los Angeles and 12 weeks under the stars in the Hollywood Bowl in hillside Griffith Park. It ranks among the best orchestras in America, a worthy challenger to the traditional Big Five bands in Boston, Philadelphia, New York, Cleveland and Chicago. Musical life in the city deepened during the war years and afterward, when both Igor Stravinsky and Arnold Schoenberg lived here. The orchestra has had a long series of truly outstanding conductors, among them Otto Klemperer, Zubin Mehta and Carlo Maria Giulini.
"There are fine high-culture facilties here," said Tom Werner, the producer, with his partner Marcy Carsey, of many of the most wildly successful situation comedies of the last decade. "But it isn't really that sort of place. When I was growing up in Manhattan, when it rained on Saturday, my mother took me to the Metropolitan Museum. When it rained on Sunday, she dragged me to hear Leonard Bernstein's concerts. Here, it never rains on weekends."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Where beauty, cash and good fortune are things to be flaunted: On the boardwalk by the beach in Venice, Calif. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)(pg. E29); Seperate worlds: Richard Meier's Getty Center, top, customers in the Grand Central Market; center; and the entry gate to the Paramount Pictures studio. (Photographs by Kim Kulish for The New York Times)(pg. 38)
 
Map of California shows the location of Los Angeles. (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (53%); LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); GARDENING (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); RIOTS (64%); SMOG (64%); MOUNTAINS (64%); BEACHES (63%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



553 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: A Grant for Green Delivery Trucks

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
THE Internet economy may allow consumers to leave their cars in the driveway as they shop online, but every time they point and click to buy something, a delivery truck will come to their door, adding to pollution on its way.
Looking for another way to clean up the air, the Northeast Alternative Vehicle Coalition this week received a $262,000 grant from the Transportation Department to build a superclean prototype delivery van. Other project participants will kick in another $262,000 for the project, which should be completed by fall. 
 The van will use a micro-turbine, a jet engine about the size of a beer keg, to turn a generator and charge batteries that will drive the wheels. An earlier effort, a battery-electric version, weighed 8,300 pounds. But 800 pounds were cut by removing most of the batteries and substituting the turbine, built by Capstone Turbine of Chicago, and a tank of compressed natural gas with which to run it. Turbines are cleaner and more efficient than internal-combustion engines.
With a 30-kilowatt generator (about 40 horsepower) continuously charging the batteries, and an electric drive of 70 kilowatts, or 94 horsepower, the Hybrid CitiVan will reach 55 m.p.h. and travel 140 miles a day. The electric drivetrain will be built by the Solectria Corporation of Arlington, Mass.
The van will by used by the United States Postal Service and then by Massport, the Massachusetts Port Authority.
Capstone, whose turbines provide electricity for buildings, has already supplied several for buses. The technology is probably too expensive for private cars, experts say, but may be practical in commercial vehicles that run many more hours a day. And the turbines are far less expensive than fuel cells, another proposed power source for electric drives. MATTHEW L. WALD 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST ALTERNATIVE VEHICLE CONSORTIUM; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST ALTERNATIVE VEHICLE CONSORTIUM; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; VANS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (70%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



554 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 8; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES;
It's Not War, It's Principles

BYLINE: By Rick Lyman 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, June 22

 BODY:
One of the main reasons Robert Rodat, screenwriter of 1998's "Saving Private Ryan," decided to set his follow-up film during the American Revolution was that it was a period and a setting that movie audiences had not seen, at least not in many years, and not in such an epic, sweeping format.
"For some reason, there haven't been a lot of films about the American Revolution, and I don't know why," Mr. Rodat said. "I thought about it a lot lately. I think part of it may be the degree to which the Western mythology, beginning in the 1860's and coming right up to the modern day, became so dominant in American mythology. The Revolution doesn't tap into that classic American mythology; it feels more like an English conflict, with the wigs and people talking about principles." 
 In "The Patriot," directed by Roland Emmerich, Mel Gibson plays a South Carolina landowner who decides to sit out the war to protect his motherless brood but is eventually forced, by circumstances and the prodding of a patriotic son, to take up the musket. At 2 hours and 40 minutes, it is the most epic in scope of the three big movies set to open in time for the July 4 weekend, probably the most competitive of the summer. (The others are "The Perfect Storm" and "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle.")
This holiday promises to be particularly lucrative because it falls on a Tuesday. The long Fourth of July holiday weekend is always a major period at the box office, with big films often opening the previous Wednesday ("The Patriot" opens on Wednesday, the other films on Friday) and running strongly through the weekend. But with the holiday on a Tuesday, there is a strong chance that the moviegoing will continue at a holiday pace for two extra days, providing a movie that opens the previous Wednesday with a full week of holiday weekend box-office steam.
Mark Gordon, one of the movie's three producers (there were also three executive producers and two associate producers), said he remembered sitting down with Mr. Rodat, with whom he has worked on several films, right after the release of "Saving Private Ryan" and trying to decide what backdrop they would choose for their next project. "Bob mentioned the American Revolution," Mr. Gordon said, "and we both thought, yes, this was something that hadn't been seen in a while, something that would feel fresh."
Mr. Rodat and Mr. Gordon sold the idea for the film to Columbia Pictures and developed the screenplay over 18 months. Initially they thought they would use an actual historical figure (Francis Marion, the legendary Swamp Fox, who bedeviled British troops from the marshes of the coastal Carolinas), but eventually they turned their character into an amalgam of several guerrilla fighters from the Southern campaign, most particularly Andrew Pickens, who, like Mr. Gibson's character, had a large family and tried to stay out of the war.
"I like watching big-canvas movies and I enjoy writing them, but the essence of a big-canvas movie has to be a tiny story," Mr. Rodat said. "That's certainly what David Lean taught us. So I find when I'm writing a big, sweeping sort of screenplay, I am wearing two hats. I'm the miniaturist and the painter of the big canvas, all at the same time. I must write something that has scope and scale, but at the same time has that little human window that allows us to enter that big world."
 
A Nod to Wireless
When executives from the French conglomerate Vivendi announced this week that they were purchasing Seagram and its Universal Studios, they hung their prospects upon the economic viability of the coming generation of wireless hand-held devices that many in Hollywood believe will be the entertainment industry's next big thing.
Vivendi's device, called Vizzavi (as in vis-a-vis), is just one of many being developed in hopes that people will very soon be able to connect to the Internet from wherever they are, without phone lines, to download music, video games, short films, television-like programs and even, some think, feature films.
"I think it's absolutely true that wireless is going to be big," said John Hegeman, who has long straddled the worlds of the Web and the movie industry, first helping put together Internet marketing campaigns for films, including last summer's "Blair Witch Project," and now as a partner with Joe Roth, a former Disney executive, in Distantcorners.com, an Internet entertainment site aimed at young science-fiction and horror fans.
"But I'd say it's going to be something more like a radio or a portable television set than a portable movie theater," he said. While Mr. Hegeman said he could certainly see people whipping out their hand-held devices to watch a five-minute short, or check the news, or send e-mail, he had a harder time imagining that many people would want to watch big Hollywood movies on something that could fit into their hand.
Whatever the results, there is certainly growing ferment in Hollywood over how the Internet will affect the way movies are distributed. This is, of course, a matter of some concern to those who have based their strategies on the long-established way of doing things, in which movies are first released in theaters and only then sent out to subsidiary venues like television and videotape. Will the Internet somehow threaten the primacy of the theatrical release?
In part to bolster this theatrical primacy, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences issued a statement this week clarifying its rules about what films are eligible to compete for the Academy Awards, making it clear that only those films that have their first showings in a Los Angeles movie theater can compete.
"The board just wants to make it crystal clear so that in the rush to embrace new technologies, a legitimate theatrical motion picture doesn't inadvertently jeopardize its eligibility," said Bruce Davis, the academy's executive director.
In other words, if Universal or any other studio decides in the future to release a film initially on the Internet -- perhaps to show off some new technological advance -- the film will be treated in the same way as one shown for the first time on television.
In response, IFilm, one of the leading companies offering streaming video on the Internet, scrambled and put together a deal with the AMC theater chain to allow some of Ifilm's shorts to be shown to paying audiences for three consecutive days in a Los Angeles cinema before being released on the Web. This is all that is required to qualify for the Oscars, said IFilm's chairman, Kevin Wendle.
The official 73rd Academy Awards booklet will be sent to members in early August. If you want to mark your calendar, nominations for films released in 2000 will be announced on Feb. 13 and the Oscar ceremonies will be, once again, at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles on March 25.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Rodat, center, Mel Gibson and Dean Devlin, a producer, on set. (Andrew Cooper/Columbia Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PATRIOT, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (CO); SEAGRAM CO; UNIVERSAL STUDIOS INC COLUMBIA PICTURES (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI (CO); SEAGRAM CO; UNIVERSAL STUDIOS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); WRITERS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); HISTORY (67%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK; RODAT, ROBERT; GIBSON, MEL MEL GIBSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



555 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 2; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF;
Let's Hear It For the Dough

BYLINE: By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:
In the mind of your average theatergoer, the musical "Footloose," which posted a July 2 closing this week, bears many of the hallmarks of a long-running Broadway hit.
By the end of its run, after all, it will have staged 737 performances, playing at the Richard Rodgers Theater for well over a year and ahalf; it will have been seen by hundreds of thousands of people; and it will have spawned a cast album, a national tour (with another planned) and promises of future companies in London, Australia and points beyond. 
 But despite all that, it is to date, and without a doubt, a financial flop.
As such, the show is a case study in the always daunting risks and unseen pitfalls faced by today's producers of Broadway musicals, a group often faulted for their taste but never their checkbooks. It also re-emphasizes, despite the faith in the power of marketing, the steep climb faced by shows with bad reviews trying to return their investment.
"Footloose" opened in October 1998 at an estimated cost of $6.5 million and to a bushel of poor notices, with a few good ones mixed in. Still, producers pushed ahead, and their effort was not without precedent. In recent years, after all, shows like "Annie Get Your Gun" and "Smokey Joe's Cafe" have overcome negative reviews to build audiences with newfangled demographic direct mail and old-fashioned advertising blitzes. For "Footloose," producers aimed at suburban radio outlets and newspapers, hoping to tap into fans of the musical's source material, the hit 1984 film that starred Kevin Bacon.
The musical's backers were also banking on another time-tested strategy: brand building. Producers are often willing to take a loss in New York with hopes of making it back on the road, where costs are lower, and any "Broadway musical" is often the biggest -- and only -- show in town. Indeed, "Footloose" begat a tour almost immediately, sending a troupe out just two months after the show's Broadway debut.
The producers' strategems showed some early success, and weekly sales in New York reached the $550,000 range in November 1998, a profit of roughly $150,000 a week. At the end of the year, during the Christmas rush, the sales topped $700,000.
But there were also problems. One was that the costs were more than expected because of advertising in New York, which often reached $400,000 a week. Initial projections called for operating costs of $350,000 or less. The show's brand also proved less lucrative than expected on the road, with half-filled houses in some cities. And unlike musicals or plays that might become films, "Footloose" did not hold out the hope of a sale to another medium; the movie, after all, was already made.
Michael David, the president of the Dodger Theatricals, which produced "Footloose," did not return several calls for comment. But an investor who has seen the show's financial statements said that by last December it had returned only 5 percent of its initial investment, a figure that might have grown to about 20 percent by its closing. Still, producers soldiered on, some weeks losing money, others earning some.
By this spring a new show, "Seussical," a musical based on the canon of Dr. Seuss, announced it would take over the Richard Rodgers Theater in the fall, meaning "Footloose" would have to fold or move. In recent months producers retooled parts of the show and began a new "Footloose Five" advertising campaign, featuring the five young male leads, a strategy aimed at cashing in on the current boy-band craze. It showed some effect, but in recent weeks box-office grosses dropped precipitously.
In the end, there was simply no more gas in the tank. As one producer not connected to the show said, " 'Footloose' burned, but never exploded."
 
Many a New Day
There were subtle signals this week that the production of "Oklahoma!," tentatively scheduled to open on Broadway on Dec. 7, was inching closer to fruition, and that its theater of choice would very likely be the Ford Center for the Performing Arts, home to "Jesus Christ Superstar."
Spokesmen for neither show would confirm the rumors, but sales for "Superstar" have not been, well, stellar. Last week it sold 54 percent of its seats. A "Superstar" cast member who spoke on condition of anonymity said rumors were flying backstage that the show would close shortly after Labor Day, adding, "It has certainly not been lost upon us that attendance is not great."
Asked about the possibility of making way for "Oklahoma!," Adrian Bryan-Brown, a spokesman for "Superstar," said the producers were about to "launch a very aggressive advertising and marketing campaign, because they believe the show has a very large summer audience."
But what about the fall, when "Oklahoma!" is due?
"We have supreme confidence 'Superstar' will find a summer audience," Mr. Bryan-Brown reiterated.
 
Arbor Day
The last time Jeffrey Wright performed in Central Park, in 1991, the city was in a recession, Christopher Walken and Raul Julia were playing Iago and Othello, and Mr. Wright was playing, in his own words, "the third cyprus tree from the left."
Much has changed. Beginning on Aug. 8, Mr. Wright will be playing Marc Antony in "Julius Caesar," at the Delacorte Theater, alongside Jamey Sheridan (Brutus) and David McCallum (Caesar).
The production is nicely timed, Mr. Wright said. "There's something perfect about doing this Roman play in the middle of this Roman city," he said, referring to New York's imperial pre-eminence.
Mr. Wright's transition from tree to leading man has been a steady one, including performances on Broadway ("Angels in America," "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk") and on film ("Basquiat"). Currently most people probably associate him with his film-stealing performance in "Shaft," in which he plays a drug dealer named Peoples Hernandez, prone to mangled English ("You can't turn off the dogs of war") and menace.
Since the movie opened last week Mr. Wright has been besieged with offers, but he said he couldn't pass up the chance to play a man "who becomes the very thing that he despises."
"Going back onstage," he said, "is a chance to control what I have."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Wright, seen in "Shaft," will play Marc Antony in Central Park. (Eli Reed/Paramount Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FOOTLOOSE (PLAY); OKLAHOMA! (PLAY); JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR (PLAY); JULIUS CAESAR (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FORD CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); FILM (77%); BRANDING (72%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (67%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); CHRISTMAS (60%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: WRIGHT, JEFFREY (ACTOR); MCKINLEY, JESSE

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



556 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN GAINS. The dollar fell against the yen on expectations that the Japanese central bank will soon raise interest rates. In New York, the dollar settled at 104.44 yen, down from 105.55 yen on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



557 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
China Unicom Shares Jump Nearly 9%

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 22

 BODY:
In a sign that China is again drawing the ardor of foreign investors, shares in the country's second-largest telephone company soared nearly 9 percent on the first day of trading here, even as the rest of the Hong Kong market slumped.
Shares of China Unicom Ltd. rose 8.9 percent, to 16.80 Hong Kong dollars, or $2.16. That followed a 12 percent jump on Wednesday in the company's first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the most heavily traded stock. 
 China Unicom's performance did not surprise analysts, who had forecast a sparkling debut since the company expanded the size of its offering to nearly $5 billion last week. Indeed, executives close to China Unicom seemed mildly disappointed that the first-day gain here did not match that in New York.
Given the dowdy reputation that China Unicom once had, however, the company has made a remarkable transformation. Its stock offering was the largest ever in Asia, outside Japan, eclipsing the 1997 offering of China Telecom.
Part of the success reflects persistent marketing by Unicom's executives and investment bankers. Even more goes to China's improved image since it signed deals with the United States and Europe to enter the World Trade Organization, and won a crucial trade vote in the United States House of Representatives.
"People who follow this company know it from the bottom up," said Duncan Clark, a partner in BDA China Ltd., a consulting firm in Beijing. "But investors view it from the top down. They think, 'Gee, another cellular operator in the world's largest market, which is about to enter the W.T.O.' "
China Unicom's success augurs well for other Chinese state-owned companies, which hope to enter the stock market later this year. The nation's second-largest oil company, the China Petrochemical Corporation, plans to sell up to $5 billion in shares. Its prospects have been brightened by a 40 percent rise in the shares of its rival, Petrochina Ltd., which went public in April.
The improved prospects extend to smaller companies. Two Internet start-ups, Netease and Sohu.com, are planning initial public offerings later this year, after delays in the face of a hostile market and skepticism about Chinese ventures.
Still, as in previous periods of euphoria over China stocks, some analysts are urging caution. Investors bought into the first wave of Chinese companies, known as red chips, in the mid-1990's, only to find out that many were poorly managed and cobbled together with shoddy assets.
Unlike the red chips, China Unicom is in a single line of business, with cellular and paging franchises that have a measurable value. The company also has indisputable growth prospects. China's cellular market has more than tripled since 1997, to 43.2 million subscribers. With only 4.2 million customers -- and franchises that cover 578 million people -- Unicom's horizon is virtually limitless.
For all that, the company's future hinges on its treatment by the Chinese government. Beijing granted Unicom several assets -- including the nation's largest paging company -- to dress it up for the stock offering. But it must still compete against China Mobile, which was spun off from the state telephone monopoly. China Mobile is much larger and has stronger political connections.
"Right now, people are buying Unicom because it is in favor with the government," said Douglas Hansen-Luke, the chief executive of Asia Strategic, a research firm here. "But that could change. It's a very dangerous reason to buy equities."
In the short term, analysts said investors would probably profit by owning one of only two major Chinese phone companies. Mr. Clark said that having taken the first steps toward a more competitive phone market in 1999, the Chinese government was unlikely to shake things up further this year.
But he said that Beijing would probably issue the next generation of mobile-phone licenses in 2001. There are several companies lining up. One is China Netcom, a carrier owned by several state ministries and backed by a son of China's president, Jiang Zemin. Another is China Telecom, the former parent of China Mobile, which owns the nation's dominant fixed-line network.
Under the terms of its agreement to enter the W.T.O., China will also allow foreigners to own 49 percent of telecommunications companies within four years. That opens the door to well-financed competitors like AT&T, the NTT Corporation of Japan and Deutsche Telekom.
Mr. Hansen-Luke said investors in China Unicom could reap a windfall if foreign companies chose to acquire stakes in domestic Chinese operators rather than build their own networks. But Unicom's track record in alliances is dismal: it spent several years and $1.6 billion unraveling a series of partnerships with foreign companies that the Chinese government declared illegal.
The more basic question is whether China Unicom -- with untested management, uncertain ties in Beijing and an underdog position -- can compete in China's rapidly changing market. "Even an idiot can make money in a managed duopoly," Mr. Clark said. "But duopolies don't leave you in much of a position to compete when the market opens."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yang Xianzuc, chairman of China Unicom, celebrates his company's first day of trading in Hong Kong. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K3ID (SGX) (93%); CHU (NYSE) (93%); 0762 (HKSE) (93%); SOHU (NASDAQ) (58%); K3ED (SGX) (58%); CHA (NYSE) (58%); 0728 (HKSE) (58%); PTR (NYSE) (52%); K3OD (SGX) (52%); 0857 (HKSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHINA UNICOM CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LTD (93%); CHINA PETROCHEMICAL CORP (64%); SOHU.COM INC (58%); CHINA TELECOM CORP LTD (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (52%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINA UNICOM WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FINANCES INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STARTUPS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PETROCHEMICALS (62%); INTERNET & WWW (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; YANG XIANZUC

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



558 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Crude Error: How We Grew Vulnerable to High Oil Prices

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
WHY are gasoline prices so high?
It's the demand, stupid. 
 For those who remember the 1970's, there is something very familiar about oil ministers meeting in Vienna to decide whether to open the production taps a bit further as analysts debate whether 700,000 barrels a day of additional production will make much difference.
The answer is, it won't. Because if that extra supply would change things very much, that supply would vanish. The oil crisis, circa 2000, is not a supply-side phenomenon.
That is because the oil market is nothing like a normal market. In a normal market, the marginal producer, the one who provides the last bit of supply, is the high-cost producer. If prices rise a lot, that producer can finally make a profit and he starts to increase supply. That supply meets rising demand and helps to hold down prices.
In oil, however, that situation is turned on its head. The marginal suppliers in that market are the gulf states, principally Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. They are also the lowest- cost producers, and the ones with reserves that will last for decades. The high-cost producers, including many wells in this country, are pumping all out and will not add production anytime soon no matter how high the price goes.
When demand is weak, oil prices can collapse because many oil producers need revenue and will pump all they can. That happened most recently in 1998, when Asian economies went in the tank. But when demand is strong, as it is now, it is futile to rely on oil producers to start cheating and driving the price down, or to hope that diplomacy can have much of an effect.
What would lead the Saudis to start pumping enough oil to lower prices? In a word, fear. If they feared that a worldwide recession was imminent and knew that would cause demand to plummet, they might act. There is no such fear now.
But the other fear is a longer-range one. A trend away from oil would be a scary phenomenon to the oil-rich Saudis, and they would hate to see a renewal of the 1970's trends toward better fuel economy and alternative energy sources. They are no doubt thrilled that the American law mandating high fuel economy for cars has a huge loophole classifying gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles as trucks.
Gas prices have entered the political debate this year, but not in any way that should scare the Saudis. Republicans blast pollution rules for driving up the cost of gasoline in the Midwest. Democrats suspect oil companies are seizing an opportunity to increase profit margins. Both are right, at least to some extent, but both are beside the point.
The real mistake in Washington came in the years after the last oil crisis, when oil prices were weak and Americans lost interest in energy conservation. Higher gas taxes and less loophole-laden fuel-economy rules would have helped avert the current problem.
Such actions were not taken because no effective lobbying groups were backing them and because they didn't sound like vote winners. The last president to really push energy conservation was Jimmy Carter -- remember the sweaters he wore as he urged us to turn down the heat in our homes -- and everyone knows what happened to him.
So now oil prices are high, and they are likely to remain above $25 a barrel until growth slows significantly in an important region of the world -- or until the Saudis grow worried that this country will again get serious about energy conservation and research into alternative energy sources. It's the demand that counts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (84%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



559 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: So Milosevic Leaves Serbia -- and Goes Where?

BYLINE: By Misha Glenny; Misha Glenny is the author of "The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999."

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
It may seem far-fetched that the United States and some of its allies have put out feelers to Slobodan Milosevic offering a so-called exit strategy -- a deal whereby the Yugoslav president would be excused an appearance at the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague in exchange for his getting out of the Balkans.
A fanciful notion, indeed! Yet in the past three months, I have discussed this issue with senior diplomats from the NATO countries involved. Despite the furious denials from Washington and elsewhere this week, this is a serious policy. Or rather, this is what masquerades as a serious policy. 
 In reality, it is a sign of desperation. It reflects the deep concern in Europe and America that NATO's Balkans policy has been drifting badly in recent months. It also reflects a growing feeling that isolating Mr. Milosevic, which was an appropriate moral response during the Kosovo war, has closed any political options. The West has zero leverage on Mr. Milosevic at a time when security in the Balkans is again deteriorating.
Law and order is fragile in Kosovo as an increasingly directionless United Nations administration stumbles toward local elections in the fall. Montenegro, Serbia's tiny sister republic and friend of the West, hovers between bankruptcy and civil war.
Above all, the Balkan peninsula is now a hub for a vast criminal fraternity that traffics drugs, women, cigarettes and refugees into Western Europe. Mr. Milosevic's murderous kleptocracy is the epicenter of this emerging dystopia, but it is by no means the only player. Kosovo, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia are linked by a vast, illegal economy that thrives on the region's staggering unemployment.
Getting rid of Mr. Milosevic would unquestionably make life much easier for diplomats, not to mention those unfortunate enough to live in the Balkans during these years of conflict and uncertainty. But the latest "exit strategy" has several flaws.
First, there is no guarantee, still less any reason, why Mr. Milosevic should play ball. Few countries would be willing to offer him sanctuary. The Russians have indicated he would not be welcome. The Chinese, who, like the Russians, prop him up financially, want him exactly where he is, as a little stick with which to poke the Americans from time to time.
Moreover, the Serbian opposition is hopelessly divided and cannot be counted on to offer any serious challenge. As long as Mr. Milosevic can maintain his mafia-elite lifestyle, whether through sanctions-busting or pillage, he can sit tight in Belgrade, sipping his whiskey and puffing on his Dutch cigars, occasionally stirring the miasma in Kosovo, Bosnia and Montenegro. Why should he exchange this mastery for an uncertain future in a faraway country?
The exit strategy has another problem as well: the war crimes tribunal itself, which has no intention of cooperating.
On Wednesday, the chief prosecutor for the tribunal spelled it out: "There will not be stability in the Balkans if Milosevic is not brought to justice in The Hague," the prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, said at a news conference during a visit to Kosovo. "I don't think that the man most responsible for what happened here in Kosovo should have preference."
The exit strategy is not going to work. But it has served an important function by highlighting the absence of any coherent American or European policy in the Balkans. So what is to be done? The solution is expensive and difficult, but fortunately for the United States, it is primarily Europe's responsibility.
In Kosovo, the United Nations should concentrate on creating a local civil service, comprising Albanians in the Albanian areas and Serbs in the Serb areas. These officials should be properly paid and trained to ensure that they are loyal to the goals of the United Nations and not to the local mafias. If the power of the latter remains unchecked, the strategy of holding elections this fall will prove futile.
President Milo Djukanovic's regime in Montenegro should be bolstered with serious money. If not, support for the West's most important ally in federal Yugoslavia will slip, threatening either war or the reassertion of Mr. Milosevic's control in the republic.
And the European Union must demonstrate a greater commitment to the integration of countries like Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria. When officials from these countries inquire when they may be admitted to the union, they receive only evasive answers. They are worried that the eastward expansion of the union is slowing down, leading ordinary people to become disaffected with the West.
Mr. Milosevic's source of power will dry up when Serbia's neighbors start making some visible economic progress. Beyond the strategy of supporting this, there are only two other options: Either you do a deal with Mr. Milosevic (a risky business), or you mount a covert operation, and, as we know, the C.I.A. no longer does that sort of thing. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); MONTENEGRO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION WESTERN EUROPE (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BALKAN STATES; SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); MONTENEGRO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); GLENNY, MISHA SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



560 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Leading Lender Exits City Mortgage Business

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
One of the leading sources of mortgage loans for buyers of high-priced Manhattan co-op apartments dropped out of the business two weeks ago, and the ramifications are already starting to be felt in the city's mortgage industry.
On June 7, Mellon Bank pulled the plug on new mortgages written through its subsidiary, the Boston Company. Since that date, said Ed Klotzbier, a spokesman for Mellon, the company's mortgage business throughout the country has been written through a new entity called Mellon Private Mortgage. The big difference: to get a mortgage now, a borrower must be a customer signed up with Mellon's asset management ($1 million in liquid assets required) or its private banking division ($1 million in net assets required). 
 Melissa Cohn, president of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, one of New York's largest mortgage brokerages, said that since Mellon's decision, "We're seeing a number of banks step up to the plate to take over the Boston Company's niche." Ms. Cohn said the move would have particular impact on customers seeking mortgages of $400,000 to $1 million. She named First Republic and Fleet as two banks that have been actively campaigning for the new business.
Janice DiMarino, managing director of lending for the New York office of First Republic, a San Francisco-based bank, said that the change was an opportunity for the bank, "not only in New York but on the West Coast." Ms. DiMarino said the bank specialized in the "super jumbo" mortgage, over $650,000. Last year, it wrote $1.9 billion in mortgages nationally; the New York office, which opened only in October, did $54 million. ("But this year, we expect to write a lot more," she said.)
While bankers said yesterday that the impact of the Mellon move was not yet fully understood, it seemed clear that it was getting more complex to take out a jumbo loan in today's banking marketplace. Ms. DiMarino said future mortgage-holders at First Republic would be pressured to establish the same kind of "relationship" that Mellon requires.
She said that borrowers with substantial accounts at the bank would receive favored interest rates: anywhere from a tenth to a quarter of a point less on their loan.
The Boston Company, which will continue its business in institutional asset management, wrote $1.9 billion in mortgages in 1998 and 1999 combined, Mr. Klotzbier said. Twenty-five percent of those loans were written for properties in New York, 30 percent in California, 25 percent in Boston, and the rest were scattered throughout the country.
Ms. Cohn of Manhattan Mortgage said that last year her company wrote about $50 million in loans with the Boston Company, which was purchased by Mellon in 1993. Of the loans, she said, more than half were in the $400,000 to $1 million range.
Both Ms. Cohn and Frederick W. Peters, president of Ashforth Warburg Real Estate, a Manhattan-based brokerage, said they were informed of the change abruptly. "One of my brokers heard from one of the loan officers they simply weren't able to do loans anymore," Mr. Peters said.
Both Ms. Cohn and Mr. Peters agreed that the Boston Company would be missed. "They were a player," Mr. Peters said.
The Boston Company was one of New York City's major writers of the so-called negative pledge loans, which have been called "the dirty little secret" of Manhattan co-op financing. The negative pledge loans are basically mortgages written for strict co-op buildings with policies that prohibit such loans.
As real estate and banking experts describe the practice, the would-be buyers who take out these loans keep them secret from the co-op board, which requires listing of all debts and financing details. This allows the buyers to free their own money, despite co-op rules for "all-cash" and "half-cash" purchases. Accountants, meanwhile, said the home buyers can and do deduct the payments as with any home mortgage.
The Boston Company, said Mr. Peters, was "the first big player with the negative pledge loans, and negative pledge loans became very significant in the last dozen years."
Mr. Klotzbier of Mellon and Ms. DiMarino of First Republic said they would continue to offer the negative pledge loans.
Mr. Klotzbier insisted that Mellon was not "jettisoning" or "divesting ourselves" of the luxury mortgage business. He said that Mellon had not closed down Boston's mortgage business because of lack of business, as some in the industry have speculated. "No, no, quite the contrary," he said. "It's because Mellon wants to focus on wealth management: asset management and trust accounts. The mode we're in today, we want to invest in high-growth, high-return business."
And writing residential mortgages for clients who don't have the rest of their sizable wealth on deposit is not a high-growth, high-return business, he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (83%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); WEST USA (54%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MELLON BANK BOSTON CO INC (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (90%); MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (83%); NEW YORK (76%); FIRST REPUBLIC&FLEET (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: MELLON BANK NEW YORK (76%); FIRST REPUBLIC&FLEET (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); WEST USA (54%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRIVATE BANKING (71%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE MELISSA COHN (75%); FREDERICK W PETERS (74%); ED KLOTZBIER (67%); JANICE DIMARINO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



561 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: AIDS Is Moving Into Rural Areas, U.N. Study Says

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 22

 BODY:
The global AIDS epidemic, long thought of as an urban phenomenon, is shifting strongly to rural areas in the third world, a report from Unaids and the Food and Agricultural Organization said today.
That shift has dire implications for people infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and the countries that are involved with the crisis. Although city dwellers can sometimes find social services to help them or can beg on the streets, a poor farm family often collapses when one adult is deathly ill. 
 "H.I.V. hits particularly young adults, and they are the core of the labor force, the keystone of the farm household," said Jacques du Guerny, an AIDS expert at the Food and Agricultural Organization.
When one family member cannot plow, weed or go to market and others have to cut their workloads to care for that person or have to sell the family ox or plow to buy medicine or pay for funerals, the farm may collapse. That in turn cuts food supply to city residents. Even if the family carries on, it may plant less or plant less labor-intensive and less nutritious crops, the report said.
The situation is particularly bad in Africa, where in many countries 10 to 25 percent of adults are infected; in India, with a low infection rate but more than four million cases; and in some Caribbean countries, including Haiti. American AIDS deaths receive more publicity, but Africa accounts for 83 percent of AIDS deaths worldwide, according to Unaids.
The disease spreads in rural areas in many ways. Particularly in southern Africa, rural people migrate to the cities or mines to look for work, become infected and return home once or twice a year. The disease also spreads along truck routes, where prostitution thrives, especially near borders where truckers can wait for days.
Rural poverty, too, creates vulnerability. In one example Mr. du Guerny cited, Cambodian farmers often go bankrupt in bad years and accept money from lenders who charge high interest rates. If the borrowers fall behind, Mr. du Guerny said, "traffickers come and say, 'Sell us your daughter, and we will help you repay the loan.' This creates tremendous vulnerability and risk of infection."
Preventive measures like sex education and condom distribution focus on cities. Traditional customs that can spread the disease like the central African practice of "cleansing" a widow through sex with a relative of the dead husband are stronger in the countryside.
The report was released in Rome, the Food and Agriculture Organization's base. It had no worldwide estimate of urban-rural prevalence, and it noted that rural H.I.V. rates "are harder to measure and more prone to underreporting and misdiagnosis." Instead, the study reached its conclusion by compiling case studies. In one Indian state, Tamil Nadu, the rate is growing faster in the countryside than in cities. In rural Buhera, Zimbabwe, the rate among pregnant women who visitprenatal clinics is 50.8 percent, well above the national average.
The chief epidemiologist for Unaids, Bernhard Schwartlander, said that there were no worldwide figures for the urban-rural shift but that one rule was that the disease spread faster from cities to countrysides with well-developed roads and bridges.
"In Botswana, a small country with very good infrastructure and a lot of people living near the roads," Mr. Schwartlander said, "there's no difference in infection rates between urban and rural areas. But in Tanzania, where it's a day's walk to get to a trading area to sell your stuff, people only do that once or twice a month." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (51%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION; UNAIDS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION; UNAIDS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); ROME, ITALY (51%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; RURAL AREAS; URBAN AREAS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES AIDS & HIV (94%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); SEX EDUCATION (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); CASE STUDIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); VIRUSES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR JACQUES DU GUERNY (71%); BERNHARD SCHWARTLANDER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



562 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Updating Diplomacy's Language

 BODY:
It is easy to ridicule the State Department for replacing the evocative term "rogue nations" with the more diplomatic and touchy-feely "states of concern" when referring to trouble spots like North Korea, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Cuba. But beyond the blurring of semantic clarity lies a welcome recognition that the world has changed in ways that make the "rogue" category a poor guide to intelligent foreign policy.
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright unveiled the new terminology in a radio interview Monday. Like rogue nations, states of concern have unpredictable, authoritarian leaders, histories of sponsoring terrorism and, Cuba excepted, programs for building biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. But as the department's new language recognizes, the strategy of lumping all these countries together as international rogues, unreachable through normal tools of diplomacy and fit only for isolation and military containment, has grown out of date. 
 North Korea is an obvious case in point. Its once-reclusive leader just held a successful meeting with his South Korean counterpart, and both sides now talk of national reconciliation and economic interchange. Pyongyang has honored its agreements with Washington to suspend nuclear weapons development and flight-testing of long-range missiles. In response, Washington has eased economic sanctions and made North Korea Asia's largest recipient of American assistance.
Other nations formerly known as rogues have not come that far. But for years Washington has been engaged in a delicate courtship with reform-minded elected officials in Iran. Indirect diplomacy with Libya, through the United Nations, helped bring the Lockerbie bombing suspects to trial. Many members of Congress have begun to recognize that a less restrictive policy toward Cuba could increase America's ability to influence political change there as the Castro era draws to a close.
Some states of concern still require ostracism, containment and military threats. One clear example is Saddam Hussein's Iraq, which defies United Nations Security Council resolutions, reneges on its diplomatic promises and would quickly divert any export revenues it could get its hands on into weapons programs. Every serious foreign problem facing America requires its own specific policy prescription. No longer talking about rogue states will make that easier to explain. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; IRAQ; SUDAN; CUBA; LIBYA; IRAN; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ENGLISH LANGUAGE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



563 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON with Joe Brescia 

 BODY:

Not in My Buffalo, Official Protests
REPRESENTATIVE JACK QUINN, Republican of New York, has two words for the playwright TERRENCE McNALLY, who is adapting the British film "The Full Monty" for Broadway: Why Buffalo? 
 Mr. Quinn is upset that the stage version of the 1997 film will use his hometown as the setting for the story of six unemployed factory workers who make ends meet by becoming striptease performers. Not wanting his constituents exposed to headlines like "Buffalo in the Buff" -- which The Associated Press used yesterday -- Mr. Quinn wrote to Mr. McNally, demanding that the town in the play be given a made-up name.
The film version of "The Full Monty" was set in Sheffield, England, which was depicted as a gritty industrial town whose once-mighty factories had been shut down. For the stage, the producers decided to Americanize the setting.
"Your current treatment of our city is both incorrect and irresponsible," Mr. Quinn said in his letter to Mr. McNally. He argued that Buffalo was on the rebound, "following in the footsteps of other cities like Baltimore and Cleveland" in redeveloping its waterfront.
Mr. McNally did not return a call for comment yesterday. But he told a reporter earlier in the year that he had checked with the playwright A. R. GURNEY, a Buffalo native, who assured him that he had Buffalo right.
"People ought to come and take a look at what's going on onstage before they jump to conclusions," said TOM HALL, a McNally producer. "Although it takes place in Buffalo, it in no way demeans the city or anyone in it. It's about a bunch of people who overcome adversity."
 
Praising Trump As Visionary
First ALEC BALDWIN hugged DONALD J. TRUMP. "I'm all for New York iconography," Mr. Baldwin said, "and Donald is a New York icon."
Then Mr. Trump, who dropped out as a potential Reform Party candidate for presidency, had his say about the conservative commentator PATRICK J. BUCHANAN. "Buchanan is not the right candidate," Mr. Trump said. "The concept of the Reform Party is great. But Buchanan does not represent what the Reform Party, or any other party for that matter, should be about."
Then he headed into the ballroom at the Pierre Hotel for the main event, a dinner honoring the "hotel and real estate visionary of the century" -- guess who -- sponsored by the UJA Federation. "I hope they mean the last century," Mr. Trump said. "If they mean the new century, it's only six months old. I couldn't have done much."
What followed was one part award ceremony, one part celebrity roast.
"This award proclaims Donald as a visionary," said the actor and radio personality JAY THOMAS. "Does it mean he looked into the future and saw huge buildings filled with people that paid him rent? I look into the future and I see one of his condo boards that's not going to let me into the building."
FRAN WEISSLER, who with her husband, Barry, has produced such Broadway hits as "Annie Get Your Gun," said that getting into a Trump building was not her problem -- she already lives in one. "Barry and I are thinking about producing a play about Donald's life," she said. "We're considering some working titles: 'Fiddling on the Roof,' 'A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Foreclosure' and 'Hair.' "
 
Mr. Ubiquitous, By the Numbers
DICK CLARK seemed to be everywhere yesterday: he had a morning meeting in Purchase, N.Y. ("It's unimportant," he said when asked the purpose. "Business.") That was followed by a noontime appearance at the CBS building on the Avenue of the Americas at 52nd Street. That was followed by a flight to Europe for a vacation.
But he keeps tabs on things. He said that he had flown 9 million miles, produced more than 7,000 hours of television programs, and signed more than 800,000 autographs. "That estimate was made three years ago," he said. "Thank God I have a short name." JAMES BARRON with Joe Brescia
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: TERRENCE McNALLY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FULL MONTY, THE (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); REFORM PARTY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK REFORM PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; MOTION PICTURES DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FILM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (66%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES; BRESCIA, JOE; QUINN, JACK (REPR); MCNALLY, TERRENCE; TRUMP, DONALD; CLARK, DICK DONALD TRUMP (89%); ALEC BALDWIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



564 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: Herbalife's Afterlife Challenge;
Charismatic Leader Left an Image Problem and Other Issues

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

 BODY:
Herbalife International was built on Mark Hughes's story.
As a teenager who had spent time in a reform school, Mr. Hughes saw his mother die from an accidental overdose of prescription diet pills and set out to find a safer, better way to help people lose weight. At 23, with only a ninth-grade education and after stints with two direct-sales weight-loss companies that went out of business, he went out on his own. 
 He found a formula and started selling. His grandmother was his first success, and her example brought in friends as new customers. "Lose Weight Now, Ask Me How," became the mantra for Herbalife, which started in the trunk of Mr. Hughes's car in 1980. It found its footing in a small storefront in Beverly Hills, Calif., and grew into a weight-loss, nutrition and personal care products company with worldwide sales of nearly $1.7 billion last year.
But on May 21, the Hughes story came to a tragic, almost ironic end when Mr. Hughes was found dead in the bedroom of the $25 million Malibu beachfront house that he shared with his third wife, Darcy LaPier. The company said he had drunk alcohol at a birthday party for his 87-year-old grandmother at his home and later took the antidepressant Doxepin, which had been prescribed to help him sleep. Officials ruled the death an accident, noting that neither the drugs nor the alcohol in his system would have been fatal alone. But the combination was lethal.
The death of the handsome and charismatic Mr. Hughes at 44 is a serious blow for the company -- both because he was Herbalife's head cheerleader and because of the possibility that his message of a better life through herbal products might be diminished by the way he died.
"It's obviously an image problem," said Scott Hood, portfolio manager at First Wilshire Securities Management, which has owned Herbalife shares since late 1989. "But how bad is it? It's not like he was taking their own products."
Beyond image, though, a number of other issues face the executives who now run the company. A new team has taken up the challenge of motivating and expanding a vast network of distributors who buy the products from the company and in turn recruit new distributors. Other worries include a slumping domestic market for herbal products, a tight job market that could make it more difficult to draw in distributors, a damaged relationship with Wall Street after a failed attempt to take the company private, and stock transactions that left investors crying foul.
Nearly 58 percent of the stock is now held in a trust. The trustees are Christopher Pair, formerly the chief operating officer of Herbalife and now the president and chief executive; Conrad Klein, the chief business affairs officer and a longtime legal adviser to the company; and Jack Reynolds, Mr. Hughes's father. (As a young man, Mr. Hughes took his mother's maiden name.)
Mr. Pair, who was a counselor at the reform school that Mr. Hughes attended and later became a friend, said in an interview at company headquarters in Los Angeles that he had no intention of trying to substitute for Mr. Hughes, who at his death was chairman, president and chief executive of the company..
"I could never fill his shoes," he said, adding with a chuckle, "I don't have his looks."
That is not to say he does not have a story to share with distributors. When Mr. Pair was a young man, overweight and struggling with back problems, Mr. Hughes persuaded him to try his product, a weight-loss powder that was so new it came in plastic bags rather than cans.
He said he dropped 50 pounds in four months and became a distributor for a short period before returning to the University of Redlands in California to get his business degree. Though he says his experience as a distributor will help him in managing the company, he intends to focus more on operations and on mending the relationship with Wall Street.
To motivate distributors, he said, there are plenty of other stories to be told and thousands of hours of tapes of Mark Hughes selling his vision.
On Herbalife's Web site (www.herbalife.com), the voice of Mr. Hughes still tells how his mother "totally destroyed her life just trying to lose 30 pounds" as the company promotes its vision of realizing monetary dreams through selling its vast array of products. Beyond its core weight-loss and nutritional supplements, it features a wide variety of skin care items, vitamins, shampoos, even a natural sleep product. Among the company's competitors are Amway, Nature's Sunshine and Weider Nutrition International.
To keep Mr. Hughes's message fresh, Herbalife will rely more on the stories of its top sellers. Members of the Chairman's Club and the President's Team, who have networks bringing in hundreds of thousands of dollars a month, already train new distributors and conduct seminars, and those elite categories give distributors a goal to strive for.
"Our success is just a reflection of his power," said Paco Perez, who was a bellboy at an airport hotel in Los Angeles before becoming Mr. Hughes's first employee and is now a member of the President's Team. "He taught us all by example. We're committed to his dream."
To realize that dream, the network must keep growing. Despite setbacks, it has always done just that.
In the mid-1980's, the company came under intense scrutiny by regulators. The company paid $850,000 to settle a lawsuit by the state of California that accused it of having made false medical claims and having run an illegal marketing scheme. The Food and Drug Administration forced it to remove two products from the market for relabeling.
Business issues have been of more concern in recent years. Currency turmoil in Asia and Russia resulted in a steep drop in the stock price, and Wall Street developed concerns about how the company, which went public in 1986, was handling its stock and how it was preparing to go private again.
Though officials say the product and marketing issues of the 1980's did not amount to much and of are no concern now, Mr. Pair said he would focus on rebuilding the company's relationship with Wall Street.
Mike Crawford, an analyst with B. Riley & Company, a Los Angeles brokerage house, said, "There's one significant hurdle standing in the way of Herbalife regaining the trust of Wall Street, and that's showing management is there for shareholders and not for themselves."
Mr. Crawford, whose firm stopped covering Herbalife last year, noted that in 1998 management stock options with original strike prices of about $14 were reset between $6.63 and $8. Such a move is not uncommon when a company's stock price drops, as Herbalife's did then, but this adjustment would have meant large profits for executives had Mr. Hughes's buyback attempt gone through at $17.81 a share. That effort, which would have repurchased all the company's stock, was terminated because of bond market turmoil and increased interest rates.
Also of concern was a complex transaction in 1998 in which Mr. Hughes ultimately received $18 a share for five million shares. Add to that the buyback attempt, which led to a lawsuit by shareholders who felt the offer was too low, and Mr. Pair has plenty to talk about.
"While we've had some very valid issues internally," he said, referring to the legal fees and other costs of the buyback attempt, "the company is extraordinarily sound, the distributor base is absolutely committed to building the business, and we've got a management team in place that is going to continue to do what Mark started."
Mr. Pair said he would try to increase the price of the stock, which he says is greatly undervalued. It closed at $8 a share yesterday on Nasdaq, down from a 52-week high of $16.375 on Jan. 14.
Mr. Pair declined to offer specifics before sharing them with shareholders in July, but he said plans call for continuing overseas expansion and adding new products and new technology to aid distributors.
"There's over 130 countries in the world; we're in 49," Mr. Pair said. "We haven't even touched China yet, which is going to be potentially the biggest market in the world for direct selling."
He said at least a dozen products were being developed for the United States, probably six to eight of which will come on the market next year. Extensive new products are also to be introduced in Japan and Europe.
Some institutional investors agree that the stock is undervalued. They note that the company, with nearly $100 million in cash (over $3 a share) and no long-term debt, trades at 4.6 times earnings and pays a 7.8 percent dividend.
Mr. Crawford said Herbalife's new team could send Wall Street a strong message by buying back shares and returning the value to shareholders.
At such a low price, he said, the company is an attractive takeover target, particularly to a company looking for a strong distribution base. Herbalife has about 750,000 distributors throughout the world and recently began operations in Ireland and India. Though analysts say Herbalife has been able to maintain its domestic sales while sales have slid at other companies selling herbal products, there are concerns that with the job market tight Herbalife will have a hard time holding distributors and finding new ones.
Herbalife said that it had not found that to be a problem and that the strong economy was resulting in more sales.
Still, there are challenges.
Diane Boesenberg, a Los Angeles distributor who was called at random last week, said she would stop selling Herbalife in August after 24 years. She said her decision was made before Mark Hughes's death and was based on lack of sales.
"People are very fickle about vitamins, and I'm tired of having people order thousands of dollars of vitamins only to get stuck with them," she said. "There's too much other stuff out there to choose from."
She also cited an increase, to 7 percent, in shipping and handling charges, which she said she had to pay even if she drove to a warehouse to pick up supplies. In addition, she said, distributors who had brought her in, as well as those she had recruited, were gone.
"I've signed up a total of five or six distributors in the time I've done this, and they've all dropped out," she said.
As for Mr. Hughes's death, she did not expect that to have any negative effect "for the people who believe in Herbalife."
A conference in Philadelphia the weekend after the coroner's report about Mr. Hughes's death supported her speculation.
John Tartol, a Malibu-based distributor who is part of the Chairman's Club, said 3,500 distributors turned out. He said he had expected to get phone calls after the release of the coroner's report. Only one came. He also expected distributors at the conference in Philadelphia to have questions about it.
"They're not concerned," he said, adding that Mr. Hughes had struggled with pneumonia and asthma this year, perhaps coming back to work too quickly and weakening himself. "It's kind of interesting there's been a new commitment. We're going to go out there and do it for Mark."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carrying on after the death of Herbalife's founder: John Tartol, above, a distributor, and, at right, Christopher Pair, left, chief executive, and Conrad Klein, Chief business affairs officer. (Marissa Roth left photo and John Hayes above , both for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Death of a Salesman"
Mark Hughes started Herbalife by selling weight-loss products out of his car. Now an international direct-sales giant, the company faces several challenges, including recovering from its founder's death.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HERB (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5149 OTHER GROCERY & RELATED PRODUCTS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: HERBALIFE INTERNATIONAL INC THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HERBALIFE INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS AND HERBAL REMEDIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; DOXEPIN (DRUG) DIETING (92%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (86%); HERBAL MEDICINE (86%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (79%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); GOING PRIVATE (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (62%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA; HUGHES, MARK; PAIR, CHRISTOPHER; KLEIN, CONRAD MARK HUGHES (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



565 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Bankrolling Colombia's War on Drugs: House and Senate Will Now Reconcile Bills

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
Nearly a year after President Andres Pastrana of Colombia asked the United States for emergency aid to battle narcotics traffickers and their rebel allies, the Senate cleared the way today for a package of $1.3 billion.
The American assistance, which is to include money for training special Colombian army battalions and for sophisticated attack and transport helicopters, advanced as senators approved a $13.4 billion foreign aid bill that included the money for the besieged South American nation. 
 The legislation also included about $1.5 billion to keep American troops in Kosovo and an undisclosed amount -- officials estimated about $500 million -- to pay for reconstruction in Los Alamos, N.M., after a devastating fire.
Congressional officials said today that they expect to reconcile the Senate aid package for Colombia with a more generous version approved by the House in March and then attach it to a popular bill to pay for military construction as early as next week.
While the legislation approved today would provide slightly under $1 billion to Colombia, senators said the figure would rise to $1.3 billion in the final compromise bill with the House.
The aid package will result in a vastly increased American commitment in Colombia, a country in the midst of a civil war that is the source of 90 percent of the cocaine reaching the United States. Working closely with American officials, Mr. Pastrana unveiled an ambitious plan last year to pay for a Colombian military drive into rebel-controlled territory in the south.
Included in the plan is a request for 30 highly sophisticated long-range Blackhawk helicopters and at least 35 Huey II helicopters for ferrying troops, Colombian officials said. The specific mix of the American aircraft remains in dispute as House lawmakers approved the more expensive Blackhawks, while senators favored sending Hueys.
President Clinton, whose aides have warned that Colombia's viability as a nation is at stake, said he was "grateful" for the Senate action.
"The quicker we can reach agreement and show that the United States is committed to a democracy and to fighting the drug wars in Colombia, and to strengthening the oldest democracy in America, the better off we're going to be," Mr. Clinton said.
With strong American backing, Colombian officials will now be able to seek additional support from European nations and international financial institutions, Mr. Clinton said.
But some lawmakers said that the United States risks increasingly being drawn into an unwinnable war -- reminiscent of Vietnam -- with Colombian military allies that have a poor human rights record.
"We have made a profound and dramatic shift in focus from supporting a police force in a friendly country to supporting an army engaged in a civil war," said Senator Slade Gorton, a Washington Republican. "I wonder how long it will be until we read the first news story of some of this equipment showing up in the hands of rebels."
President Pastrana's strategy, called the Plan Colombia, seeks at least $3.5 billion in international aid in the next three years. In addition to expanding law enforcement, the plan calls for public investments to stimulate the lagging economy.
Senator Paul Coverdell, a Georgia Republican, said that the move today signaled "a turning point in this whole struggle" against Colombian drug cartels by demonstrating a strong bipartisan resolve to step up American support and provide training to special anti-narcotics battalions.
Colombian officials applauded the Senate action, which came in a 95-4 vote for the overall foreign aid bill.
"We are definitely pleased," said Luis Alberto Moreno, Colombia's ambassador to Washington. "This means there is strong bipartisan support behind Plan Colombia at a critical moment in Colombian history."
Mr. Moreno said Colombia will insist on the House-approved Blackhawks because of their superior versatility.
But even some Colombians voiced misgivings about the widening of the military campaign to suppress drugs.
Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano, the national police chief whose anti-narcotics leadership has won praise from American lawmakers, said the battle would best be waged by curbing demand in the United States and other countries.
"We'd rather see drug consumption drop than get any of this aid," said Mr. Serrano, who is stepping down this week after more than five years in his post. If consumption were dramatically reduced, Colombia "could go back to what it once was, a place that grew coffee, where people worked hard and sweated for a paycheck," he said in an interview with the Associated Press.
The Senate foreign aid bill was $1.7 billion less than the Clinton administration had requested, but it has not drawn a veto threat.
Under pressure from the Pentagon, senators approved money to keep nearly 6,000 American troops in Kosovo. The Clinton administration has fought to maintain the American presence in the Balkans, despite growing uneasiness in Congress over the open-ended United States commitment in both Kosovo and Bosnia.
The Senate also increased spending by $30 million to $255 million for international efforts to fight AIDS, and added $10 million for a total of $66 million to battle the global spread of tuberculosis. But it provided only $75 million in assistance to the world's poorest countries, a reduction from the administration's $262 million request. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (99%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (99%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HELICOPTERS (89%); ARMIES (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); COCAINE (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: SERRANO, ROSSO JOSE (GEN); MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



566 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Evidence of Water Invigorates Study of Mars

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
The standard description of Mars as cold, desolate and dry may have to be revised slightly. It now appears that Mars may have reservoirs of liquid water hidden under parts of its icy surface, a finding that could profoundly affect the search for life there, scientists said today.
Pictures taken from orbit by NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft have disclosed features in numerous places that look like gullies formed by flowing water carrying rocks and debris to the bottom of craters, according to a study released today. 
 The report, by Dr. Michael C. Malin and Dr. Kenneth S. Edgett of Malin Space Science Systems in San Diego, said that evidence suggested that these water flows happened in recent geological time -- perhaps just a few hundreds, thousands or millions of years ago, instead of billions of years in the past. And the researchers said it might still be occurring.
"We see features that look like gullies formed by flowing water and the deposits of soil and rocks transported by these flows," said Dr. Malin, whose company built the spacecraft camera that made the images. "These features appear to be so young that they might be forming today."
At a news conference today at NASA headquarters, the researchers said there was ample evidence that water once flowed on Mars in abundance, leaving ancient river beds and the markings of huge oceans. One of the big questions about Mars, Dr. Edgett said, has been, "Where did the water go?"
"The new pictures from Global Surveyor tell us part of the answer," he said. "Some of that water went underground, and quite possibly it's still there."
The researchers, whose study will be published next week in the journal Science, said that they found evidence for the flow of liquid water in 150 of 65,000 photos taken by the Surveyor's high resolution camera over the last two years. The evidence of water movement, in the form of gullies and channels terminating in fan-like deltas, appears recent because surfaces around these features are smooth and relatively light in color. Older areas on the planet are pocked with craters and covered with a dark dust, they said.
Both researchers said that they were surprised by evidence of possible present-day water because the finding did not fit into current models of what Mars was like. Most of the spots that appear to be the source of flowing water are on slopes with exposed rock layers, they said, raising the possibility that liquid water is trapped below these layers and is freed by a surface shift.
A specialist in possible water on Mars who was not involved with the study, Dr. Michael H. Carr, a planetary geologist with the United States Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., called the images "exciting," saying the gullies and channels looked like water-worn features seen from the air in the western United States. However, he said, he was skeptical about the researchers' theory that there was liquid water in layers 300 to 1,300 feet below the surface that occasionally burst out from the walls of certain craters and canyons.
Dr. Carr, author of "Water on Mars" (Oxford, 1996), said Mars was so cold, with an average temperature of 60 degrees below zero, that any water this near the surface should have been frozen solid. While the new pictures showed important, new Martian features, he said, he was skeptical of the explanations for the apparent flows. "Either this interpretation is wrong or there is some mechanism we don't know of to keep water liquid under these conditions," Dr. Carr said.
Dr. Edgett said a possible explanation for the features was that water, kept liquid by an unknown means, would freeze and form an ice dam as it flowed from an underground source. The ice dam would retard the flow until there was enough force to break through the barrier, sending the water in a rapid cascade down the slope, much like a flash flood. The water would quickly freeze as its motion slowed and then would quickly boil off into gas because of the planet's low atmospheric pressure, he said, but not before spreading rocks and mud down the slope.
Dr. Edward J. Weiler, NASA's chief scientist, said that if there were liquid water on Mars, it would have profound implications for the question of life on Mars, both in the past and today, and where to search for it. "If life ever did develop there, and if it survives to the present time, then these landforms would be great places to look," he said.
Dr. Weiler said the findings would have to be verified and explained if they were to become widely accepted. And he cautioned against exaggerating the discovery, alluding to some news reports on the find in recent days. "There is possible evidence of liquid water," he said. "They have not found lakes or rivers flowing on Mars. They have not found hot springs. They certainly have not found hot tubs with Martians in them."
If the presence of subsurface water was proved, Dr. Weiler said, it could fuel a desire to send humans to Mars. Water would make a human trip more feasible and economical because it could be used to make oxygen for astronauts to breathe and hydrogen for fuel for the return trip to Earth. But a human trip would only come after extensive robot missions to characterize the planet and find the best landing sites, he said, an effort that could take decades.
Dr. Bruce Jakosky, director of the Center for Astrobiology at Colorado University, said the key to finding life on Mars was liquid water. The new findings, possibly finding water where least expected, shows that Mars will be more difficult to understand than some scientists have believed and that any life that might be there could be in unexpected places.
"On Earth," Dr. Jakosky said, "wherever you find liquid water below the boiling temperature, then you find life." The latest discovery "doesn't tell us that life does exist on Mars, but it is the smoking gun that tells us Mars has all of the elements for life," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARS (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; SCIENCE (JOURNAL) IPRINT TECHNOLOGIES INC (MENLO PARK, CA) (50%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; SCIENCE (JOURNAL) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARS (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MARS GLOBAL SURVEYOR; PHOTOGRAPHY; WATER; MARS (PLANET); LIFE, EXTRATERRESTRIAL; RESEARCH SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); RIVERS (88%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E; MALIN, MICHAEL C (DR); EDGETT, KENNETH S (DR) MICHAEL H CARR (58%); KENNETH S EDGETT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



567 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: House Auctions Gain Favor in an eBay World

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: IRVINGTON, N.Y., June 21

 BODY:
The auction was barely under way, but already, Thomas and Gloria Fatato were feeling out of place in the Tudor-style house they had built 20 years ago.
Strangers were nibbling on hors d'oeuvres and sipping on fume blanc. A ponytailed musician teased out "Puttin' on the Ritz" and "Cheek to Cheek" on a Yamaha synthesizer. A veritable army of auctioneers from the National Auction Group of Gadsden, Ala., all wearing matching American-flag ties, were doing their officious best to prod, prod, prod. 
 Then, when the bidding for the Fatatos' house stagnated at $975,000, one of the guys with the American-flag ties, Jack Ogle, rapped his knuckles on a glass shelf in the living room. In a Southern drawl, he bellowed: "That's opportunity knocking tonight like it's never knocked before in this area!"
So maybe the modus operandi was not pitch-perfect for the grizzled New York crowd. Still, for most people at the auction held here this month, this odd cocktail of one part culture clash, one part high-stakes poker, was their first taste of a national phenomenon that has proliferated in recent years: the sale of houses and apartments at auction.
These slickly promoted events with the trappings of a wedding or a fund-raiser are a far cry from the enduring image of a foreclosed house being sold on the courthouse steps. Instead, the auctions appeal to a faster-paced, time-pressed society accustomed to speculating on art, stocks and everything else, in person or over the Internet -- a society, in short, with an eBay mentality.
"We have a whole generation of Internet babies who love the auctions and are used to it," said Lee Mills, a lawyer, investment banker and powerboat racer from Key West, Fla., whose 13-acre estate in Woodstock, N.Y., was sold at auction for a higher-than-expected $2 million several years ago. "It's a lot of entertainment, a lot of theater, and I believe it's the trend of the future."
Auctioneers and real estate brokers estimate that there are now at least 1,000 auctions of residential properties around the country each year, compared with 200 five years ago and only a handful 10 years ago. Meanwhile, the value of all forms of real estate sold at auction increased from $21 billion in 1986 to $49 billion in 1998, according to the Gwent Group, an auction-research company in Bloomington, Ind.
On average the auctions can net 80 to 90 percent of the property's appraised value, which is a shade below what traditional sales can bring. But some traditional brokers dismiss the auctions as marketing ploys or annoying competition, said Jan Tarnow, manager of the auction department of the National Association of Realtors. "There's still some of that us-versus-them mentality," she said.
A few years ago, these auctions usually involved lavish estates of thousands of acres, owned by people like former Senator Lloyd Bentsen and the singer Kenny Rogers. On June 8, Christie's Realty International auctioned off a newly listed 2,800-square-foot brownstone on Manhattan's East Side designed by Philip Johnson and once owned by Blanchette Rockefeller. The winning bid was $11.16 million -- more than double the estimate -- and set a record for the highest sale price per square foot in Manhattan, according to Christie's. (The winning bidder was not disclosed; one of the nonwinners was Mr. Mills.)
Now, though, the auctions are also becoming less stratospheric. On Sunday, Sheldon Good & Company, a Chicago company, plans to auction off 50 condominiums in Battery Park City and Midtown Manhattan for $200,000 to $800,000 apiece, both in person and over the Internet, said Steven L. Good, the company's chief executive.
In other countries, particularly Australia, selling real estate at auction is considered the norm. But in the United States, the word "auction" still conjures up bad images, dating back to the Depression era, of fast-talking hucksters preying upon vulnerable people. And the recent fiasco involving a painting's price being manipulated on eBay doesn't help.
For some people, too, the packaging -- Want a mariachi band? A harpist? Some bacon-wrapped quail? -- is a distraction and a gimmick.
"It was a circus," grumbled John Aronian III, a retired surgeon in Westchester who attended the Fatatos' auction. "It was good ol' boys from down South. It was like a hog auction."
Then again, with prime real estate still in short supply in a good economy, more buyers and sellers are willing to gamble on an auction to create good prices.
For sellers, auctions may be appealing because they can greatly accelerate the sales process, reducing the costs of a mortgage, taxes, insurance and maintenance. Buyers, who must bring a certified check to the auction -- $50,000 in the Irvington sale -- are expected to do their own inspections or buy the house on an as-is basis. They then have a set period of time, usually 30 days, to arrange financing and set a closing date.
And a growing number of sellers are opting for auctions because their job or family situation has changed suddenly, or their property is unusual, said J. Craig King, president of the J. P. King Auction Company, in Gadsden, Ala.
People are naturally competitive, too. At an auction, it is not just a matter of keeping up with the Joneses, but eclipsing the Joneses, and in their presence.
"Watch the people sizing each other up: it's like, 'Hmm,' " said Barbara Corcoran, president of the Corcoran Group, a Manhattan real estate company, which plans to auction properties solely on the Internet. "It puts any French cafe to shame."
Or, as William R. Bone, president of the National Auction Group, put it: "It reaches a point where egos take over. It's not dollars and cents; it's egos."
On a recent Tuesday, it was the Fatatos' turn. The owner of a beer distribution company in the Bronx, Mr. Fatato, 58, and his wife, 52, had tried unsuccessfully for more than a year to sell their house to move to a smaller one in Rockland County. The original price was $1.7 million, but the house was too opulent for the neighborhood, with glass-and-mirror decor that had not changed since it was designed 20 years ago.
Unfortunately, rain forced the event indoors. Still, there were 10 bidders, an unusually high number, most of whom did not want to give their names.
Some were young professionals from Manhattan. At least two people were considering auctions for their own properties, one on the Hudson River, the other in Litchfield, Conn. Everyone was itching with expectation.
Then, shortly after 8 p.m., show time. The auctioneer, Eddie Haynes, a member of the Oklahoma Auctioneers Hall of Fame, tried to oil the crowd with folksy charm. First, he auctioned off a bottle of Dom Perignon to Mr. Fatato for $125 for charity. Then he asked loudly: "We having fun yet?"
"I'm having fun!" blurted another auctioneer, Wayne Thorn.
The Fatatos chose perhaps the riskiest method: an absolute auction, without reserve and without a minimum bid, where the final price is the final price, even if it is $1. The Fatatos did have the option to cancel at the last minute, but they did not, and soon, Mr. Haynes started the bidding at $750,000.
It was a loud and chaotic scene, with people spilling into the living, dining, kitchen and foyer areas. And slowly, tentatively, the price climbed; past $800,000, past $900,000.
When the bidding halted at $975,000, Mr. Haynes tried repeatedly to whip the crowd into a frenzy, to no avail. The hammer price was $975,000, bid by a young Russian immigrant family in Manhattan, said their broker, Neil Singh.
The final price, actually, was almost $1.1 million, because of the additional 10 percent charged by the auction company.
The Fatatos were overwhelmed and exhausted by the experience. "You put your whole life into their hands, and whatever they say, you believe," Mr. Fatato said, a few days after the auction. "Who knows, it could have gone higher. But it happened so quick. I'm still trying to figure it out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Let the games begin: Eddie Haynes called to order the auction of a house in Irvington, N.Y., accompanied by wine and hors d'oeuvres. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1); As music played, Jack Ogle, a bidding assistant, stood between a pair of potential bidders, talking with them before the auction of the Fatato home in Irvington, N.Y., lower right. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); INDIANA, USA (51%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: HOMEBID.COM EBAY INC (95%); NATIONAL AUCTION GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOMEBID.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA; IRVINGTON (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); INDIANA, USA (51%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AUCTIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); TRENDS (66%); EVENT MARKETING (65%); 

PERSON: FATATO, GLORIA; FATATO, THOMAS; CHEN, DAVID W LEE MILLS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



568 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Fall as Investors Speculate About Rate Increase

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks declined yesterday as investors cashed in on recent gains, particularly in technology shares, amid speculation that the Federal Reserve might increase interest rates again this year.
Stoking the sell-off were fears that rising oil prices, which have topped $2 for a gallon of gasoline in the Midwest, could intensify a slowdown in the economy and possibly lead to an uptick in inflation. 
 "We are witnessing what could be a bad combination -- higher interest rates when higher oil prices are in place," said Alan Ackerman, market strategist at Fahnestock & Company. "We are in a period of what I call interest rate paralysis. Until we know what the Fed is going to do, there are unlikely to be any heroes in the market."
A majority of Wall Street traders say they believe that the central bank will leave interest rates unchanged at its policy-setting meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday, but a growing number see an increase at the Fed's Aug. 22 meeting. The Fed wants to strike a balance between a too-hot economy that leads to inflation and a too-slow economy that creates unemployment and hurts corporate profits.
The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index tumbled 127.17 points, or 3.1 percent, to 3,936.84, after racking up its fifth consecutive higher close on Wednesday. The drag came from Nasdaq stars like the computer networking giant Cisco Systems Inc., which was down 2 7/8, to 64 9/16.
The downward pressure also got the best of Microsoft, which had been trading higher most of the session after the company disclosed a plan to integrate its software with the Internet. Microsoft fell 13/16, to 79 7/8.
Microsoft, a component of the Dow Jones industrial average, added to the woes of the blue-chip index. The Dow declined 121.62 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,376.12.
Broader market measures also weakened. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 26.95 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,452.18.
The market had slid early and then recovered before falling back again. But analysts downplayed the impact of rumors that the chairman of the Fed, Alan Greenspan, was involved in a traffic accident in Chicago, which was later denied by the Fed.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1/32, to 104, while the bond's yield remained unchanged at 5.96 percent. The price of the 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 102 28/32, and its yield remained at 6.10 percent.
The Dow's financial services components were mixed, but technology and pharmaceutical names all sank. Among the drug stocks yielding ground were Johnson & Johnson, off 15/16, to 88 9/16, and Merck & Company, down 13/16, to 71 1/4.
Traders said it would be hard for the market to regain its footing before the Fed announces its decision on interest rates on Wednesday.
In a recent Reuters poll, all 29 primary dealers of Treasuries said they expected the Fed to leave short-term rates unchanged after an aggressive increase of half a percentage point on May 16.
But the survey also found that 26 dealers thought that the Fed planned at least one more quarter-point increase, probably at its Aug. 22 meeting.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Graph tracks Tax-Exempt Yields since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (84%); MRK (PAR) (80%); MRK (NYSE) (80%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CISCO SYSTEMS INC (84%); MERCK & CO INC (80%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MIDWEST USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (84%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



569 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats Rebuffed on a Drugs Bill

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
Senate Democrats tonight abruptly forced the first vote of the year on their prescription drug plan, a politically potent issue on the campaign trail, but the measure was swiftly defeated by Republicans.
The bill, which would lower drug prices for all Medicare beneficiaries, was rejected by a vote of 53 to 44. Two Republicans voted in favor of the measure; one Democrat voted against it. 
 At a time when public opinion polls show the rising prices for prescription drugs as a priority among voters, Senate Democrats seized on a parliamentary trick today to force a vote on their bill. In so doing, they accomplished two political goals: They got the chance to talk about their plan for making prescription drugs more affordable to senior citizens and they forced Republicans to cast a difficult vote, perhaps the only one of the year, on the issue.
"When Medicare was passed, there was a fundamental commitment by the government to senior citizens," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who accused Senate Republicans of stalling on a bipartisan plan. "Every day we fail to pass a prescription drug program, we are violating that commitment."
Republicans scoffed at the maneuver, calling it an unadulterated political stunt that was rushed, short-sighted and counterproductive. The prescription drug bill was brought up as part of a larger appropriations bill to provide money for the departments of Labor and Health and Human Services, and was allowed on the floor with no notice and with less than one hour of debate.
"This is a politics-first amendment," said an outraged Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas. "Nobody knows what it costs, how it works, what it does to the solvency of Medicare. This is politics at its worst. This body is offended by it. I'm offended by it. I don't think voters will be impressed by circumventing the process."
The Senate also voted to approve a contentious and heavily lobbied amendment to delay by one year federal regulations that would require employers to take steps to prevent repetitive motion injuries. The House already approved the measure.
The amendment, which was bitterly contested by labor unions who want these worker protections as soon as possible, passed by a vote of 57 to 41, after Democrats spent the day filibustering the measuring.
The Clinton administration said it would recommend a veto of the spending bill if the measure is not removed. Business groups vigorously pushed to delay the regulations, which would make the workplace ergonomically correct -- rules they say are too broad and too expensive and could cost employers, by their estimate, $60 billion a year.
"This will have the most dramatic effect upon business and the economy ever promulgated by a federal agency," said Senator Tim Hutchinson, Republican of Arkansas. "We are talking about $60 billion a year imposed upon the business community."
But the most surprising turn of events involved prescription drugs, which descended on the Senate seemingly out of the blue.
For months, Democrats have accused Senate Republicans of stalling on the issue of prescription drugs, and some predicted today's vote could be the only Senate vote of the year on the matter.
The Senate Finance Committee, whose chairman is Senator William V. Roth Jr., Republican of Delaware, is working on a bipartisan bill that would address concerns about prescription drug prices. But Democrats say the committee is inching along and is unlikely to move at all on the issue this year.
"Prescription drugs is a matter before the finance committee," Mr. Roth told Democrats on the floor. "It is undoubtedly the most important domestic legislation that will be considered this year. Nothing will happen if we permit this legislation to become partisan."
House Republicans voted their own drug plan out of committee on Wednesday, but Democrats called it faulty, saying it should be better integrated into the Medicare system.
Under today's Democratic bill, written by Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, drug insurance companies' premiums for Medicare beneficiaries would be $35 to $40 a month, the same as under the House Republican measure.
The beneficiary would have to pay the first $250 a year in prescription drug expenses. The government would share costs beyond that amount, paying a larger proportion as drug expenses increased.
Liberal Democrats signed on to the bill once Mr. Graham agreed to drop a provision that would have forced people with high incomes to pay higher premiums. Now, premiums will not be dictated by income.
This is significantly different from the proposal offered by House Republicans. Under that plan, Medicare would pay half of drug costs from $250 to $2,100, but the patient would then be solely responsible for several thousand dollars of drug costs, and the insurer would not step in again until the beneficiary had incurred $6,000 of costs.
"It is clearly a part of modern medicine today," said Senator Charles S. Robb, Democrat of Virginia, referring to the drug plan. "It is not a luxury." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; LABOR; REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (90%); POLITICS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); APPROVALS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LOBBYING (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (66%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (66%); ERGONOMICS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (65%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE TED KENNEDY (59%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



570 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Step Up Scrutiny Of Price Increases for Gasoline

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. with EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: DALLAS, June 22

 BODY:
Oil prices showed no sign of retreating a day after OPEC decided to increase production, and lawmakers stepped up calls for investigations into "price gouging" in the gasoline market.
Lawmakers are especially concerned about the Midwest. While pump prices are at record levels in much of the nation, they have had an astounding rise in the Midwest. Retail prices in Milwaukee and Chicago have soared as much as 70 cents a gallon in the last two months because of pipeline disruptions and a federally mandated switch to a new cleaner-burning fuel that incorporates ethanol. 
 Despite the 2.6 percent rise in crude oil prices yesterday, the price of gasoline in the Midwest may have finally leveled off, some officials said. New supplies are coming on the market, refiners have increased production of the new gas and wholesale prices have fallen.
The Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the soaring prices could be a result of industry collusion, expects to report its findings to Congress by the third week of July, said Robert Pitofsky, the agency's chairman. The F.T.C. is expected to begin issuing subpoenas within days, and some lawmakers want industry chief executives to be required to testify on the matter.
President Clinton, facing a political firestorm over the issue, said he believed there was "no economic explanation" for the high Midwest prices. Vice President Al Gore, the presumed Democratic presidential candidate, reiterated his belief that industry collusion may be stoking the problem.
But industry officials blame supply problems, low inventories of gasoline and the June 1 switch to the cleaner fuel, and they point to a recent Congressional Research Service report suggesting that the cleaner-gas mandate and pipeline problems had added 50 cents to the price of a gallon of gas in some parts of the Midwest.
Gasoline prices have been high this year, after OPEC's move in March 1999 to reduce oil production. But since the beginning of May, average pump prices for regular gasoline have soared almost 30 cents nationally, while Chicago and Milwaukee, two of the cities required to use the new cleaner-burning fuel as of June 1, have had far higher increases.
In futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange today, crude oil for August delivery rose 82 cents, to $32.19 a barrel. And gasoline for July delivery, which reflects wholesale prices, soared more than 4 cents, to $1.0813 a gallon.
The runup has become a major political issue, as Mr. Gore and officials at the Environmental Protection Agency have sought to deflect criticism that the high prices are because of the mandate for cleaner-burning reformulated gas. They have suggested some companies may be making too much money at the expense of drivers.
For certain, industry profits are soaring. About three months ago, Wall Street analysts were predicting second-quarter profits of $5.5 billion for the seven major United States oil companies, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks corporate earnings. Now analysts are predicting combined profits will be about $6.5 billion. That compares with about $3 billion during last year's second quarter.
But many analysts are skeptical that federal officials will find evidence of illegal behavior. "This is a political sop," said Philip K. Verleger, who has served as a consultant to the F.T.C. and the State of California on past investigations into high gas prices and is now a senior adviser at the Brattle Group, an economic consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. "They aren't going to find anything."
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the presumed Republican presidential nominee and a former oilman who has taken almost $1.5 million in political contributions from the oil and gas industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, has said he welcomes the investigation into possible industry collusion. But he blames the Clinton administration for not doing a better job in cajoling OPEC to increase production. Some lawmakers in Congress also took a swipe at OPEC today, saying they would introduce a bill to allow the Justice Department to look into possible antitrust violations by the cartel.
But OPEC ministers in Vienna, who met this week and agreed to raise production by 708,000 barrels a day, complain that the United States is at fault for the high prices. They blame the new cleaner-burning gas rules, which affect about one-third of the nation, and they also contend that American refiners cut back purchases drastically last year to avoid buying oil at prices they considered temporarily high.
"It is not an OPEC problem," said Ali Rodriguez, Venezuela's oil minister and the current president of OPEC. "In the last year, refinery runs have been very low and we saw a great decline in" inventories.
Sheik Saud Nasser Al-Sabah, Kuwait's oil minister, said: "This is also a responsibility of the major consuming countries. They should get their own houses in order."
Top Saudi officials, who have been the leading advocates of production increases, are genuinely alarmed about what they view as prices that are too high to be stable. But they argue that the supply of crude oil is only a peripheral part of the problem.
One Saudi official contended that United States oil companies refused to invest in added capacity even when refining margins were high, and though the Saudis do not want to be drawn into the political debate about the mandate for the new cleaner fuel, this official asserted that the rules were imposed without paying attention to the situation of United States refiners.
Since their initial decision to increase production three months ago, OPEC ministers have said they want to keep oil trading roughly within a band of $22 to $28. But Saudi officials believe the price band is being constantly tested by the markets, and they now say they should not be held hostage by short-term price movements, especially if those are being driven by speculation.
But Iran's oil minister, Bijan Namdar Zanganeh, was more conciliatory. Having angrily denounced Energy Secretary Bill Richardson in March, Mr. Zanganeh went out of his way today to note that there was no external pressure on OPEC this time, and that was the reason that Iran had no difficulty in joining the OPEC action.
"You and me and Mr. Richardson have all learned a lesson," Mr. Zanganeh told reporters. "It was a very good test for the market. Many sources expected the volume of production would decrease the price of oil significantly, but it hasn't happened. It means we have some new factors in the market."
Asked what he thought the biggest culprit behind high oil prices is, he said, "RFG," referring to the new cleaner-burning reformulated gasoline.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A train pulling tanker cars moves away from a refinery in Whiting, Ind. Retail prices of gasoline in the Midwest have soared as much as 70 cents a gallon in the last two months because of pipeline disruptions and a federally mandated switch to a new cleaner-burning fuel that incorporates ethanol. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating the price increases. (Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Relief in Sight?"
Wholesale gasoline prices have taken a downturn in the Midwest, and the price at the pump may be about to fall.
(Source: Energy Information Administration; OPIS Energy Group)(pg. C17)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDWEST USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; AIR POLLUTION; ELECTION ISSUES OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); CARTELS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); FUTURES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (87%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ETHANOL (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; ANDREWS, EDMUND L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (72%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



571 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: President Offers Criticism Of 'Bush-Lazio Tax Plan'

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

 BODY:
President Clinton has sought to boost the political fortunes of his wife and his vice president by condemning Republican tax cut proposals -- the "Bush-Lazio tax plan," in his words -- as dangerous to the country's prosperity.
At a fund-raiser in Washington on Wednesday night that raised $200,000 for Hillary Rodham Clinton's bid for a Senate seat from New York, Mr. Clinton lashed out at Representative Rick A. Lazio for the first time since he replaced New York City Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani on the Republican side of the race for the Senate. 
 Mr. Lazio has yet to endorse Texas Gov. George W. Bush's proposed tax cut. "The first casualty of any Clinton campaign has historically been the truth," said Dan McLagan, a spokesman for Mr. Lazio.
The president said he was confident his wife would, in time, overcome questions from critics about why she was running for office in New York. He portrayed her pursuit of the Senate seat as a sacrifice -- a decision to put public service ahead of getting "real rich" after life in the White House.
"For 30 years, she's worked for me and worked on the side. The whole time we were in Arkansas, she gave away lots of potential income every year just to do public service, because it's what she wanted to do," he said. "And I can just tell you that in a lot of ways, she's better than I am on a lot of this stuff, and she knows things I don't know."
Mr. Clinton said he was amused that Republicans have circulated statements he has made praising Mr. Lazio for supporting various legislation.
"It was a gas that he would try to give the people of New York the impression that I'd prefer him to my wife in the Senate," Mr. Clinton said, "because she would have voted for my economic plan, not against it. And she would have voted against the contract on America, not for it. She wouldn't vote to shut the government down and get rid of the Department of Education, or get rid of the 100,000 police that lowered the crime rate in New York and other places."
Even as he jabbed at Mr. Lazio, the president made the case that Mrs. Clinton's Senate race and Vice President Al Gore's bid for the presidency should be decided on issues, not attacks.
"It's no longer necessary to have one of these sort of mudslinging campaigns where everybody tries to convince everybody else that their opponent is just one step above a car thief," he said.
Mr. Clinton said Republican proposals to grant large tax cuts would go so far that they would endanger the economy.
"I believe if you have a Bush-Lazio tax plan, and it passed, you'd all be better off the day after because all of you can afford to come here today," Mr. Clinton told the 25 donors gathered at a Georgetown home for seafood canneloni, veal medallions and lemon souffle. "But you wouldn't be better off if it led to an increase in interest rates. In two years, the impact it would have on the markets, on the overall economy, on the unemployment rate: you'd be worse off. And the overall economy would be worse off, and we wouldn't have the money to do things."
Mr. Clinton, who made a fund-raising trip yesterday that took him from Washington to Phoenix to San Diego, said the outcome of the presidential election, and the Senate race in New York State, would hinge on whether voters realized how much was at stake.
"People ask me all the time, 'Well, who's going to win?' " Mr. Clinton said. " 'Do you think the vice president is going to win?' I say yes. 'Do you think Hillary is going to win?' I say yes. And I do -- on both counts. 'Do you think the Democrats will win back the Congress?' Of course, I say, yes. But here's the real truth -- who will win this election depends upon, more than anything else, what the people of America think the election is about. The question you ask may determine the answer you get."
That question, Mr. Clinton said, ought to be: Who is best suited to keep the prosperity going? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); MAYORS (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (60%); CRIME RATES (60%); 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (59%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



572 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS;
New Chairman Makes Debut As Gore Camp Gets Bad News

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, June 22

 BODY:
William M. Daley, the new chairman of Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign, acknowledged today that one of the biggest challenges facing Mr. Gore was that Gov. George W. Bush was getting credit for the economy, the issue on which Mr. Gore had been basing his hopes.
But, Mr. Daley said, that was a "knee jerk" reaction and he hoped to counter it by recruiting supporters from big business and labor to come to Nashville, where Mr. Gore's campaign is based. 
 "He is right now," Mr. Daley said of Mr. Bush's receiving credit. "I don't know if it's just kind of a gut thing, but Republicans have always historically got more credit for running the economy, and being good for the economy, even at the height of the deficit.
"So I think we've got a challenge to remind people what things were like in 1992, and we've got a challenge to remind them that, fine, you may take this eight years of economic expansion for granted, but tough decisions were made."
Still, Mr. Daley hastened to add that he understood the size of the task ahead of him. "I'm not being Pollyannish about how difficult a presidential campaign is," he said.
Mr. Daley, the secretary of commerce, spoke in an interview here as he made his debut in Mr. Gore's headquarters as chairman on a day when the Gore camp had to absorb another round of bad news.
A Justice Department official has recommended that an independent counsel be named to investigate Mr. Gore's role in the Democrats' questionable fund-raising activities of 1996. Two new national polls showed Mr. Gore slipping further behind Mr. Bush. And James P. Hoffa, the powerful labor leader, appeared with Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate who could siphon enough votes from Mr. Gore to cost him a few key states.
A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, taken during the start of Mr. Gore's "prosperity and progress tour," which was intended to showcase the booming economy, put Mr. Bush ahead of Mr. Gore 49 percent to 41 percent. A bipartisan Battleground 2000/Voter.com poll showed Mr. Bush ahead by 12 percentage points.
Mr. Daley said that part of his task would be to bring business and labor interests together and urge officials to move to Nashville to dedicate themselves to Mr. Gore's candidacy. The Wall Street Journal poll showed that voters give Mr. Gore an advantage of only a single percentage point -- statistically meaningless -- on his ability to handle the economy.
"We want to get people from labor and business down here," Mr. Daley said in an interview in his office, which will serve as his command post until the November election. "I'm asking people, 'You want to help? Fine. When are you going to leave your job and come to Nashville?' "
Mr. Daley takes the reins officially on July 15, when he leaves his cabinet post. He succeeds Tony Coelho, the campaign's former chairman, who resigned last week for health reasons.
Mr. Coelho said in an interview with Bloomberg.com that his health was worse than he had indicated last week. In addition to his epilepsy and inflammation of the colon, he told the news service, he has a brain cyst, though he does not know whether it is malignant.
"My seizures were getting worse," Mr. Coelho said of his epilepsy. "I was having stomach cramps, but I would work my way through them. I just had too much to do. Then, my sinuses above my eyes got infected and they became inflamed and shut down, basically."
After arriving from Washington, Mr. Daley met with Tennessee Democrats this morning. He then shook hands with all the campaign staff, including about 80 paid workers and 70 interns and volunteers, at their desks, and spoke to them collectively for about 15 minutes. Listeners described his comments in the meeting, which was closed to reporters, as welcoming and inspirational.
Mr. Daley described his message to the staff as being "all about grinding it out for four and a half months."
He said in the interview that it was too soon to discuss any changes he had in mind, but he cautioned that the campaign would "not lurch this way and that."
"You just lay out a strategy and go for it, and you don't jump around," he said. "It's really easy for someone who's not following the ebb and flow every day to be criticizing it. You've got to really get into it to understand what the hell's going on, and that takes a while."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Daley, the new chairman of the Gore presidential campaign, yesterday on his first day at the campaign headquarters at Nashville. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); STATISTICS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; DALEY, WILLIAM M (SEC); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



573 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Amid Protest, Rent Increases Are Approved

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Adopting the highest increases since 1996, the New York City Rent Guidelines Board last night approved 4 percent for one-year leases and 6 for two-year leases.
The increases cover the city's one million rent-stabilized apartments and apply to leases renewed between Oct. 1, 2000, and Sept. 30, 2001. 
 The board also adopted a $15-a-month surcharge on all apartments renting for less than $500. Tenant advocates, who had hoped to see that provision dropped, called it a "poor tax" on the people least able to pay. But landlords said it was needed to help them meet the basic overhead costs of operation.
For lofts, the board approved increases of 3 percent for one-year leases and 5 percent for two-year leases. It also adopted a 2 percent increase for one-year leases for residents of hotels, rooming and lodging houses and single-room-occupancy apartments.
Although the board went through its ritual series of failed motions for bigger and smaller increases, in the end the adopted resolutions closely followed the preliminary proposals the board issued last month.
A tenant-dominated crowd of about 300 booed and jeered the board's actions, which were taken in the auditorium of Cooper Union. But tensions were much reduced compared with last week's public hearing, when board officials ordered the police to eject several people for outbursts, and four were arrested.
"Freeze our rents, freeze our rents," the crowd began chanting last night. Overpowered in decibels, the board decided to take a strategic recess. Then 15 or 20 demonstrators occupied the stage and even commandeered the board's chairs and microphones. Some carried signs saying: "Rudy don't raise our rent."
The board chairman, Edward S. Hochman, took the protest in stride and even posed briefly with some demonstrators for news photographers. After a few minutes, plainclothes police officers gently ushered the protesters off the stage, and eventually the board members reappeared and resumed the meeting.
Landlord groups had sought far bigger increases -- 9 percent for one year and 15 percent for two -- citing soaring fuel oil prices and other costs.
"We tried to convince some board members that the soaring oil prices that some say is a temporary spike is not a temporary spike," said Joseph Strasburg, president of the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents apartment-building owners.
But tenant advocates had called for no rent increases, contending that rising landlord profits meant that owners were already overcompensated.
"Disgraceful -- the whole process was disgraceful," said Michael McKee, the associate director of the New York Tenants and Neighbors Coalition. "Tenants can't get a break from the Giuliani administration."
Before the voting began, Mr. Hochman said, "This has obviously been a difficult year for the board." Anticipating both the board's decision and the reactions to it, he said, "If we upset both sides, we have probably done the best job we can."
For five of the last six years, the board has echoed the economy's low-inflation trends by approving modest increases of 2 percent for one-year leases and 4 percent for two-year leases.
The one exception came in 1996, when the board approved increases of 5 percent and 7 percent. The major issue this year -- as in 1996 -- was soaring prices for fuel oil for heat and hot water.
Tenant advocates contended that oil costs fluctuate and complained that although the 1996 rise in prices proved to be temporary, rents were never lowered to make up for it. Landlords countered that they had already suffered this year by paying high oil prices not covered by the last rent increase. They also cited predictions of continued high prices.
Over the years, the board's increases have tended to moderate the swings in operating costs, restraining rent increases during high inflation and making up for that with modest increases during low inflation, Mr. Hochman said.
"Hopefully, things have worked out in the long term as fairly as possible," Mr. Hochman said.
Studies by the rent board's staff showed that operating prices experienced virtually zero increases in 1997 and 1998, although the board raised rents anyway. But the latest study showed that operating prices had jumped by 7.8 percent.
Another issue is profits. Board studies showed that landlords had reaped record income coupled with the smallest increase in expenses in nearly a decade, based on tax department data for 1998, the most recent available.
Net operating income rose by 11.8 percent, which exceeded the previous year's record of 11.4 percent. The board has been tracking net income for nine years.
Tenants said that the statistics showed that any increase was unwarranted. But owner representatives said the numbers were misleading because their industry was still recovering from a collapse in the real estate market in the late 1980's.
Mr. Hochman caused fear in tenants earlier this year when he proposed adopting formula calculations that could have produced increases of 8.5 percent for one-year leases and 12 percent for two-year leases.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who appoints the board, immediately distanced himself from that proposal, calling such increases "very, very high."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstrator, foreground, at last night's meeting of the Rent Guidelines Board and the board's chairman, Edward S. Hochman. Protesters prompted a brief recess. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENT CONTROL (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); ARRESTS (64%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE EDWARD S HOCHMAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



574 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: MORE PARK ARRESTS
Five more suspects in the Central Park attacks were arrested yesterday, bringing to 25 the number accused of sexually abusing women after the National Puerto Rican Day Parade on June 11. One man, Aerial Boxill, 28, of New Haven, surrendered to detectives, while Darrell Jamison, 18, of Queens and Abel Ortiz, 23, of the Bronx were apprehended by detectives. All three were charged with one count of sexual abuse and one count of riot. Detective Robert Samuel, a police spokesman, said that two others, Juan Miranda, 22, of Paterson, N.J., and Felix Collazo, 22, of the Lower East Side, were charged with sexual abuse. The Police Department is still seeking 17 suspects. C.J. Chivers (NYT) 

ALBANY: WEST NILE TESTS
The State Health Department said yesterday that two more birds from Rockland County had tested positive for West Nile virus. An infected crow was found in Clarkstown and an infected blue jay was found in Orangetown. Earlier this month, the virus was found in three crows from Rockland County and New Jersey. Last year, dead birds, especially crows, were present in areas where people were found carrying the West Nile virus. Officials said Rockland County residents should use mosquito repellent outdoors at night. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)
 
ALBANY: PATAKI'S BALKANS TRIP
Gov. George E. Pataki will lead a four-day, fact-finding delegation to Kosovo, Montenegro and Bosnia next week, his office announced yesterday. Others in the delegation will include members of policy-study groups, journalists, academics and business people. The group will meet with government and other leaders in the Balkans to assess security and economic concerns. The trip is being organized by the American Enterprise Institute, a policy group.Richard Perez-Pena (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: MUSLIM FIREFIGHTERS SUE
A group representing Islamic firefighters filed a lawsuit against the city in federal court in Manhattan yesterday, asserting the Fire Department discriminated against Muslim firefighters. The Fire Department's Islamic Society said the department ignored requests to add an Islamic representative to the staff of six departmental chaplains. The society also said that the department inspected mosques on Fridays, the Muslim sabbath, and that other religions were provided with prayer rooms at headquarters. A Fire Department spokesman declined to comment. John Sullivan (NYT)
 
SYRACUSE: ONEIDA RULING
A federal judge ruled yesterday that attempts to reach a settlement in the land-claim lawsuit filed by the Oneida nation against two counties in upstate New York had failed, forcing a trial. Judge Neal McCurn of Federal District Court in Syracuse handed down the written ruling but did not set a trial date. In their suit, the Oneidas are seeking sovereignty over 250,000 acres of land in Oneida and Madison Counties, while the counties said they would cede only 25,000 acres. As part of a deal, the state sought a quarter of revenues of an Oneida casino, which the Oneidas refused. The Oneidas have asked the court to add 20,000 landowners as defendants. Edward Wong (NYT)
 
YONKERS: SCHOOL PROTEST
The police arrested nine people in front of Yonkers City Hall on Wednesday as about 30 people protested the firing of the city's first black schools superintendent, Andre J. Hornsby. Singing "We Shall Overcome," the protesters criticized what they called the racist policies of Mayor John Spencer, left, who appointed the school board that fired Dr. Hornsby on Friday. Nine protesters lay down on the street, snarling traffic for about 10 minutes. Kate Zernike (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
PATERSON: BABY DEATH
The Passaic County prosecutor's office said yesterday that it would seek an adult murder trial for a 17-year-old Paterson woman charged with throwing her 16-month-old son into the Passaic River on June 3. If a judge eventually transfers the case from New Jersey Family Court to Superior Court and the woman is convicted of murder, she will face a sentence of 30 years to life instead of the Family Court maximum of 20 years. Robert Hanley (NYT)
 
NEWARK: WHITE SUPREMACISTS
Morris County can deny a white supremacist group permission to use the courthouse steps and lawn for a July 4 rally in Morristown, a federal judge ruled yesterday. But if the group uses another location, the county cannot force it to take out liability insurance or pay to police the event. The Nationalist Movement, based in Forsyth County, Miss., wants to protest the firing last year of Carl Williams as superintendent of the State Police after he linked drug crimes with minority groups. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
TRENTON: 2001 BUDGET DUE
With the fiscal year ending next week, legislative leaders announced yesterday that the 2001 budget would amount to $21.5 billion, up about $500 million from the current budget. The new budget will be released early today, said Leonard Lance, vice chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee. He said it would be up to $300 million more than Gov. Christine Todd Whitman had sought. Iver Peterson (NYT)
 
ROCKAWAY: WILDLIFE PRESERVE
Conservationists paid a developer $7 million yesterday for 295 wooded acres, expanding a wildlife preserve and preventing the planned construction of 108 houses. The Trust for Public Land, a conservation group, paid $1 million of the purchase price. The state paid $3.1 million and will own the property, which will be part of the Wildcat Ridge Wildlife Management Area. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
BRIDGEPORT: CATHOLIC APPOINTMENT
Msgr. Laurence R. Bronkiewicz, chancellor of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport, was elected Wednesday the diocese administrator until Pope John Paul II selects a permanent replacement for Edward M. Egan, who left Bridgeport to become archbishop of New York. As chancellor, Monsignor Bronkiewicz had been second in command of the diocese, which includes 360,000 Catholics in Fairfield County. David Herszenhorn (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); FIRE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SEX OFFENSES (91%); BIRDS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WEST NILE VIRUS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); VIRUSES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); COUNTIES (88%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); JUDGES (67%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000



575 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Blue Chips Rise, but Some Technology Issues Take a Hit

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday, with blue-chip shares rising and technology stocks coming under selling pressure for the second consecutive day as investors locked in profits after a weeks-long run-up. Amazon.com plummeted 19 percent after an influential analyst warned of risks facing the online retailer.
The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 28.63 points, to 10,404.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 10.70 points, to 1,441.48, while the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 91.50 points, or 2.3 percent, to 3,845.34. 
 Among the hardest hit of the technology stocks was Amazon.com, which plunged 8 1/8, to 33 7/8, after a Lehman Brothers' fixed-income analyst, Ravi Suria, released a research note describing "extremely weak and deteriorating" credit.
Other technology stocks that declined included Yahoo, which was off 6 3/8, to 125 5/16.
The losses in the technology sector were somewhat offset by gains in the semiconductor shares. Shares of Rambus rose 17 9/16 , to 114 11/16, after the memory chip maker said that it had ended its patent infringement lawsuit against Hitachi Ltd. Hitachi agreed to a worldwide licensing agreement on a variety of Rambus products.
Trading was light yesterday as investors watched their moves ahead of the Federal Reserve's regular meeting Tuesday and Wednesday. While there have been signs that the economy has been slowing in response to the Fed's six interest rate increases in the last year, traders are hesitant to make investment commitments when the Fed may still move to tighten credit further to keep inflation in check.
"The market hates uncertainty, and we have a big uncertainty in front of us," said Alfred E. Goldman, director of market analysis at A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis. "When people are confused on Wall Street, they often keep their hands in their pockets."
Investors also worry that the slowing United States economy will eat away at corporate profits.
Treasury bond prices fell as investors await the outcome of the Federal Reserve policy meeting. A fresh corporate bond supply and robust oil prices also encouraged selling.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 2/32, to 102 31/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.03 percent from 5.96 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32, to 102 10/32. The note's yield rose to 6.18 percent from 6.10 percent on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (82%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); RMBS (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HITACHI LTD (82%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (64%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); RAMBUS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PATENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (67%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (52%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); LITIGATION (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



576 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales May Be Feeling First Pinch of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 23

 BODY:
Automakers say that despite recent deep discounts, auto sales have not picked up in June from the relatively subdued pace of May, providing evidence to the Federal Reserve that recent interest-rate increases may be slowing the American economy.
Auto executives and dealers say sales of luxury cars and luxury sport utility vehicles remain extremely strong. 
 But the mass market for more affordable cars, minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks has clearly softened as middle-class families have become leery of borrowing money at ever steeper rates, they said.
"Our Cadillacs are outselling our Pontiacs, and that has never happened to us before," said Michael Coy, the general manager of a dealership in Vancouver, Wash. The Cadillac buyers are frequently paying cash with their stock market profits, while traditional Pontiac customers are beginning to buy late-model used cars instead, he added.
Frank Ursomarso, a dealer in Wilmington, Del., said on Thursday that his seven dealerships had sold 159 vehicles in June, compared with 166 in the period last year, because less-prosperous buyers were shifting to used cars. "In my Jaguar, BMW and Volvo businesses, the pace is still very, very good -- those consumers who are more educated and more affluent are still buying," he said.
Automakers, especially DaimlerChrysler A.G., have been stepping up their rebates, with Dodge now offering discounts on every model except the Viper sports car. But the manufacturers have also been quietly raising the subsidized interest rates they offer on car loans. They have concluded that it has become too costly to continue offering loans at 1.9 percent and subsidizing the difference compared with market rates on auto loans, which are approaching 10 percent for a three-year loan.
Kevin Woods, the retail finance manager at Ford's lending unit, Ford Credit, said the discounted rates offered by Ford Credit were likely to rise another full percentage point when Ford adjusts rates in early July, even if Fed officials leave short-term rates unchanged next week as expected.
High gasoline prices appear to have had surprisingly little effect so far on the types of vehicles being sold, industry officials said. Even in the Midwest, where gasoline prices are highest, the biggest gas-guzzlers, mainly large sport utilities, are selling well because they are being purchased by households so affluent that they are not especially worried about the cost of fuel, they noted.
The auto industry sold cars and light trucks at a torrid seasonally adjusted annual rate of 18 million vehicles in the six-month period that ended on April 30. That pace cooled to a rate of 17.1 million vehicles in May, and both Ford and General Motors are predicting virtually the same rate -- 17 million -- for June.
The auto industry sold 17 million vehicles in all of last year, its best year ever, so the pace in the last two months does not represent a significant slowdown. But it still shows a contrast with the brisk pace last winter, as small and midsize cars, sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks are now beginning to clog some dealerships' lots.
Most automakers will be announcing their June sales on July 3, but DaimlerChrysler plans to wait until July 5. It will be very hard to judge the overall strength of sales in June until DaimlerChrysler reports because the company has become very aggressive in offering rebates after its sales plunged 16.8 percent in May. DaimlerChrysler had temporarily renounced most discounts in May in an unsuccessful attempt to persuade the industry to wean itself of its dependence on discounts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); DAI (FRA) (67%); DAI (BIT) (67%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); DELAWARE, USA (78%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FORD MOTOR CO (85%); DAIMLER AG (67%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); DELAWARE, USA (78%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (87%); GASOLINE PRICES (85%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FAMILY (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



577 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Mass Transit Fare Raised in Atlanta To Expand System

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 23

 BODY:
After a long struggle to balance the need for expansion into suburban areas with the goal of keeping mass transit fares low for city residents, a $12 million deficit has forced public transit officials to make a choice, and they moved clearly in the direction of expansion.
On Monday, the board of directors of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority agreed to raise fares by 25 cents to finance the system's growth into the largely white northern suburbs. Marta officials say the $1.75 fare, which takes effect on Jan. 1, is needed to pay for two new rail stations opening in suburban north Fulton County. The increase is the first since 1995, and puts the cost of a flat fare at the upper end of urban transit systems around the country. 
 The expanded rail and bus service is intended to relieve some of the region's notorious traffic congestion, along with a smog problem that has become one of the worst of any major metropolitan area.
The addition of five new stations since 1995, special buses for the disabled, and the expansion of Marta's police force and station staff have forced the agency into the red in recent years, a Marta spokeswoman, Dee Baker, said.
Though half the construction cost of the new stations was paid with federal funds, Marta relies for the rest of its money on fare revenue and a 1-cent sales tax from the city of Atlanta and the two counties where Marta service is concentrated. Marta receives no money from the state.
"We are probably one of the only regions in the country that does not have a state transportation fund," Ms. Baker said, adding that this is unlikely to change in the near future. "In the short term, the only real alternative to the fare increase would be a decrease in service."
The agency has considered cutting back on bus service instead of a fare rise but is not expected to change its decision before Jan. 1.
Many riders and transit advocates in Atlanta argue that the fare increase unjustly targets the poorest residents of the city, who are the heaviest users of the system.
Robert Bullard, head of an urban policy research group at Clark Atlanta University, says the fare increase favors the suburban, predominantly white ridership over low-income minorities in the city. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN ATLANTA RAPID TRANSIT AUTHORITY METROPOLITAN ATLANTA RAPID TRANSIT AUTHORITY (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN ATLANTA RAPID TRANSIT AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (69%); SMOG (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); SALES TAX (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%); 

PERSON: DEE BAKER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



578 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE CONVENTION PLANS;
Los Angeles City Council Approves $4 Million to Bail Out a Host Group

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 23

 BODY:
By a one-vote majority, the Los Angeles City Council approved $4 million today to bail out the local host committee for the Democratic National Convention here, assuring enough cash to begin building the stage at the Staples Center next month and avoiding a big political embarrassment for Mayor Richard J. Riordan.
But Mr. Riordan's victory came at a personal price: $1 million, to be exact. 
 That is because the Council required that several million-dollar letters of credit held by the Democratic National Committee from a group of wealthy civic leaders backing the convention must be cashed before any of the new city money is spent.
One of those letters has Mr. Riordan's signature.
In an even more bitter twist, the bailout could not muster a majority from the 15-member Council's 12 Democrats, and Mr. Riordan, a Republican who helped to lure the convention in the first place, had to rely on a liberal Democrat, Jackie Goldberg, a frequent antagonist in the Council, to pass it.
Ms. Goldberg, who represents Hollywood, called the vote the hardest of her career and agreed to support the grant only after the Council accepted her amendments on the letters of credit, as well as a requirement that Pershing Square in the heart of downtown Los Angeles be available for public protests.
Civil liberties groups have criticized a plan to limit protests to a fenced-off area set aside near the Staples Center.
Ms. Goldberg's amendments also required the Police Department to meet with an ad hoc Council committee before and during the convention to avoid any police overreaction to protests.
"Jackie made it really clear she would vote no," said her chief of staff, Sharon Delugach, who expressed surprise that the councilwoman's conditions had been met, especially those involving the police and protesters.
From the beginning, the convention has been dogged by fund-raising difficulties, chiefly because the local organizers agreed to finance the $35 million cost almost entirely from private money, as organizers of the 1984 Olympics here did.
The city originally agreed to provide transportation and security services amounting to about $7 million, but estimates of those costs have risen and earlier this week the Council approved $2 million more.
But it balked at a request for an additional $4 million to jump-start construction work, with members insisting that would violate their original promise to taxpayers.
Today, the measure passed 8 to 5, the bare majority needed in the 15-member body; two members were absent.
Ben Austin, a spokesman for the local host committee, said the group was "thankful that the Council expanded its partnership." Mr. Austin said the investment would help reap $135 million in economic activity for the city.
Despite the troubles, the host group has raised a record amount in private cash and services, $25 million, and hopes a Sunday morning fund-raiser at Mr. Riordan's house, featuring President Clinton, will raise more than $1 million toward about $3 million in cash that is still needed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); FINANCES CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (75%); OLYMPICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: RIORDAN, RICHARD J (MAYOR) RICHARD J RIORDAN (91%); JACKIE GOLDBERG (85%); BEN AUSTIN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



579 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: After Defeat, Campaigner for 'Free Burma' Begins Anew

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
SO sanguine is Simon Billenness that he seems not the least bit downcast by this week's United States Supreme Court decision overturning the Massachusetts "Burma Law," which he co-wrote.
There are, after all, so many other economic tools to use against companies that support the totalitarian regime of Myanmar, formerly Burma. And as a super-specialist in just this kind of battle, using financial pressure to fight foreign oppression, he knows all of them: divestment campaigns, consumer boycotts, shareholder resolutions, the whole gamut. 
 Mr. Billenness enumerated them as he sat surrounded by two-foot-high stacks of paper ("Here I am working to topple a military dictatorship, and I have trouble finding things on my desk!" he lamented in the cheery clip of his native Britain) and books with titles like "The Anguish of Tibet" and "Corporate Crime and Violence."
The desk belongs to Trillium Asset Management, a Boston concern that, with $675 million in client money, labels itself the nation's largest and oldest independent investment firm dedicated totally to "socially responsible" investment.
Most of Trillium's employees actually work investing money, but Mr. Billenness, 35, a senior research analyst, has the particular luxury of spending virtually all his time on social advocacy, like figuring out how best to support the democracy movement in Myanmar, whose leaders are accused of torture, forced labor and brutal repression.
To wit: With nary a pause after the Supreme Court decision, Mr. Billenness and other members of the Free Burma Coalition, a national umbrella group, plan to begin a push this summer to get cities and states to pass new laws penalizing companies that do business with Myanmar, he said.
The Supreme Court's ruling against the Massachusetts law, which largely barred the state government from doing business with companies that trade with Myanmar, was narrow enough that it left room for states and cities to pass such home-grown foreign policy measures, Mr. Billenness said. Provided, that is, they are not pre-empted by federal law, as the Massachusetts measure was.
So there is room for a continued local-global campaign that is, not coincidentally, highly reminiscent of the movement to fight South African apartheid using economic means like divestment.
Here is the Massachusetts link: In 1993, Mr. Billenness, a freshly minted M.B.A. from Boston College, went to watch a news conference about the end of economic sanctions against South Africa. There he met Byron Rushing, a prominent legislator who had written the state's law on anti-apartheid sanctions. And he suggested that Mr. Rushing do something similar for Myanmar.
Mr. Rushing said he would need more information on the country. Mr. Billenness provided it, including a statement by Nobel Peace Prize laureates calling for sanctions.
Mr. Rushing eventually gave Mr. Billenness a copy of the bill he wrote on South Africa sanctions and asked him to adapt it for Myanmar. So Mr. Billenness went home, he said, "and typed it out word for word, except that whenever I came to 'South Africa,' I put in 'Burma.' Then I gave it back to him on a disk, and that's how I 'co-authored' the law on Burma."
Mr. Rushing introduced the bill in 1994, and it passed in 1996. Citing the Massachusetts law, a number of companies pulled out of Myanmar, among them Apple Computers and Hewlett-Packard, Mr. Billenness said. But by 1997, a backlash began as well. There was, he said, "quite a kerfuffle."
The European Commission formally protested, and in 1998, the National Foreign Trade Council, a Washington-based association, brought suit. The law's opponents said it violated international trade agreements and interfered with the federal government's function of making foreign policy. They won in federal court. And now again in the Supreme Court.
Why was the Myanmar law challenged, while the South Africa laws never were? The economy has become so globalized, Mr. Billenness said, that more than ever, "if you pass a selective purchasing law in any city in the world, it will have import far beyond its borders."
That brought trouble for the Massachusetts law, but "it shows how we as consumers, as investors, can use our freedom in the marketplace to effect political and social change."
Mr. Billenness said he believed "the battle has been more important than the result" in that the Massachusetts law helped bring talk about Myanmar to the forefront. Seventy-eight members of Congress expressed support for the law, as did 22 state attorneys general.
The movement is growing, as reflected in the thousands of names on his e-mail lists, all collected over the last few years.

 M R. BILLENNESS himself came to the "Free Burma" cause in a rather researched, though by no means cold-hearted, way. A native Londoner, he is the second son of parents who met at a Young Liberals conference and who both remain very active in Britain's Liberal Party. He became actively Liberal himself by the age of 14, even resuscitating a local Young Liberals chapter.
When he finished Loughborough University in 1985, he married an American -- he has since divorced -- came to the United States and began working in finance from the ground up, as a bank teller. He quickly overcame his initial confusion between the American dime and the nickel, he said.
He gravitated toward "socially responsible" investing (to this day, he has a Working Assets Visa card -- "plastic with purpose" that contributes a percentage of purchases to causes) and ultimately worked his way up to his job as one of two employees at Trillium who devote all their time to social advocacy. In 1992, when he was still an intern at the firm, he wrote a report on which human rights issues most needed attention from concerned investors, and Myanmar was one of them, along with sweatshops and China. So it began.
And so it continues. Last year, Mr. Billenness noted, Hootie & the Blowfish, a rock band and client of Trillium Asset Management, was playing at a San Diego concert sponsored by Suzuki, which is the target of a consumer boycott for investing in Myanmar. Guess who provided the T-shirts that some of the band members wore reading "Suzuki Out of Burma"?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Simon Billenness handles social advocacy issues for an investment firm. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); TIBET (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); FREE BURMA COALITION FREE BURMA COALITION (75%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); FREE BURMA COALITION SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MASSACHUSETTS; MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); TIBET (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); VERDICTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ETHICAL INVESTING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); BOYCOTTS (72%); TORTURE (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; BILLENNESS, SIMON SIMON BILLENNESS (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



580 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Virtual Tie in the Crucial Presidential Race in Mexico

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 23

 BODY:
Public opinion surveys show the two leading presidential candidates in a virtual tie before the election on July 2, with as many as one-fourth of the voters undecided.
Three polls show the candidate of the governing party, Francisco Labastida Ochoa, leading by a slender margin. A fourth survey showed Vicente Fox Quesada of the center-right National Action Party slightly ahead. 
 The half-dozen polls were issued on Wednesday and Thursday. A law prohibits publishing polling information from midnight tonight until 8 p.m. on Election Day.
The polls show that the race in which Mr. Labastida enjoyed an overwhelming advantage over Mr. Fox has continued to narrow.
And they have intensified the extraordinary uncertainty and tension about the outcome of an election that has become a plebiscite on whether the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, should continue to govern after 71 years in power.
"Either candidate, Labastida or Fox, could win this election," Alejandro Moreno, chief pollster at Reforma, a newspaper here, said in an interview.
In the survey that Reforma published on Thursday, Mr. Labastida was favored by 34 percent, Mr. Fox by 32 and Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, a leftist, by 13. Three percent said they would vote for minor candidates or no candidate, and 19 percent said they were undecided or refused to respond. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Another poll, commissioned by Reuters and conducted by Zogby International, a research concern in New York, showed Mr. Labastida supported by 31 percent of voters, Mr. Fox by 29 percent and Mr. Cardenas by 10 percent. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
About 3 percent of those surveyed said they supported minor candidates, and 27 percent said they were undecided or declined to respond, the president of the business, John Zogby, said in an interview.
In a third survey, conducted by Grupo de Economistas Asociados, a research concern here, Mr. Fox was supported by 32 percent, Mr. Labastida 31 percent and Mr. Cardenas by 15 percent. Twenty percent were undecided. Two percent supported minor candidates. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 4 percentage points.
"It's really a tie," said the director of the organization, Mauricio Gonzalez Gomez.
The polls started a debate about how to interpret the high number of uncommitted voters. Some experts said the undecided and nonresponsive voters, whose numbers ranged from 18 to 27 percent, represented the percentage of eligible voters who were highly unlikely to cast ballots.
Other experts said the high percentage reflected the high level of fear in the electorate after an extraordinarily bitter campaign.
Complaints have been heard across Mexico that officials of the government and the PRI have threatened that voters would lose access to welfare and farm programs if Mr. Fox won.
As a result, some experts said, many people who express indecision are reluctant to acknowledge their intentions to vote for the opposition.
Most surveys before the last presidential election, in 1994, predicted that the PRI would earn 2 to 3 percentage points more than the party eventually received.
Several new surveys showed that when voters were asked to leave aside their preferences and to say whom they expected to win, significantly more Mexicans said they believed that Mr. Labastida would win.
In 1994, the PRI won votes from many Mexicans by portraying itself as the party that could offer stability in a dangerous world.
This year, as Mr. Fox has campaigned as the candidate of change, Mr. Labastida has again been playing on voters' fears.
A survey by another group, Consultores y Marketing Politico, suggested that the tactic could be effective. Asked to choose between social peace and having a new party in power, nearly 8 in 10 voters said they preferred stability. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLLS & SURVEYS (98%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); REFERENDUMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); 

PERSON: FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (GOV); LABASTIDA OCHOA, FRANCISCO (MIN); DILLON, SAM VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



581 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Deep Discounts Fail to Lift Sales of Affordable Vehicles
Automakers say that despite recent deep discounts, auto sales have not picked up in June from the relatively subdued pace of May, providing evidence to the Federal Reserve that recent interest-rate increases may be slowing the American economy.
 Auto executives and dealers say sales of luxury cars and sport utility vehicles remain extremely strong. But the mass market for more affordable cars, minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks has softened as middle-class families have become leery of borrowing money at ever steeper rates. Page C2. 

AOL and Time Warner Clear a Hurdle
Shareholders of America Online and Time Warner voted to approve the merger of the two companies. But the concerns do not expect to complete the $165 billion deal until late fall because it must still gain the approval of a number of regulatory bodies, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the European Union and the authorities in many cities where Time Warner owns cable television systems. The F.C.C. is expected to hold a hearing in late July. C4.
 
S.& P. Off Slightly in Mixed Trading
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 10.70 points, to 1,441.48, in mixed trading. Blue-chip shares rose and technology stocks came under selling pressure for the second consecutive day as investors locked in profits after a weeks-long run-up. The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 28.63 points, to 10,404.75, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 91.50 points, or 2.3 percent, to 3,845.34. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.03 percent from 5.96 percent on Thursday. C3.
 
DoCoMo May Establish British Link
Responding to press reports that NTT DoCoMo was on the verge of acquiring a 15 percent stake in Telesystem International Wireless, a Canadian company that is heavily invested in the British market, a senior DoCoMo executive acknowledged that a link with Telesystem was an attractive option. Officially, DoCoMo declined to confirm the reports, but dropped hints that it might soon establish a presence in Britain. C2.
 
ConAgra to Buy International Home
ConAgra said it had agreed to buy International Home Foods for about $1.6 billion in cash and stock in a deal that would put Chef Boyardee pasta, Gulden's mustard and PAM cooking spray into ConAgra's corporate pantry. Shareholders of International Home will receive $22 a share, half in cash and half in ConAgra stock. ConAgra, with brands like Orville Redenbacher popcorn, Swiss Miss hot chocolate and Healthy Choice prepared meals, will also assume $1.3 billion in debt. C3.
 
Aventis in Alliance With a Start-Up
Millennium Pharmaceuticals will receive up to $450 million in financing from Aventis Pharma, the big European drug company, as part of a wide-ranging drug development and technology alliance. C2.
 
China Toughens Talk on W.T.O. Entry
A top Chinese trade negotiator warned that his country would not make any more concessions to open up markets for goods and services in its bid to join the World Trade Organization. The negotiator, Long Yongtu, said some countries had raised "unreasonable requests," apparently referring to an insistence by developing countries that they receive the same trade privileges that China had negotiated with the European Union and the United States. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,404.75 up 28.63
Nasdaq composite -- 3,845.34 down 91.50
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.03% up 0.07
The euro -- $0.9367 down 0.0002
The dollar -- 104.62 yen up 0.18
 
Graph tracks daily closes of the S. & P. 500 since January.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (83%); NDCM (LSE) (82%); DCM (NYSE) (82%); 9437 (TSE) (82%); SNY (NYSE) (80%); SANF (BIT) (80%); SAN (PAR) (80%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (80%); AOL (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (83%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (83%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (83%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (83%); NTT DOCOMO INC (82%); SANOFI SA (80%); AOL INC (72%); TELESYSTEM INTERNATIONAL WIRELESS INC (53%); INTERNATIONAL HOME FOODS INC (52%); MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); MERGERS (74%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FAMILY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); MISC FOOD MFG (65%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



582 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Urban Menace Stalks Streets In Diapers

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
ANY journalist who covers the Upper West Side quickly becomes combat-hardened, but even the veterans at The West Side Spirit have never seen anything like the current war. It was set off by their front-page headline: "Your Kids Are Driving Me Crazy!"
The battle cry came from Gail Bryce, a nonparent appalled at the children running amok in her Starbucks. The Upper West Side has become "a giant day care center," she complained, while a populace famed for kvetching remained silent. 
 "We let baby carriages and strollers steamroll over us on crowded sidewalks and in stores, as if it's a papal edict that they have the right of way," she wrote in an article last month. "We let brats terrorize us in restaurants. We stand passively on public transportation, looking down at the tops of the heads of kids who are riding for free in the seats that should go to us fare-paying adults."
She announced a new campaign for adult rights, prompting a deluge of letters for and against children -- mostly against. "We've never gotten so much mail on any issue," said Tom Allon, the publisher and editor in chief, who bravely stood by the article despite having three children of his own. "I was the prototype parent she had in mind."
So am I, and I'm tempted to fire back at the child-bashers. Whom do these self-absorbed Manhattanites expect to support them in their old age? They should be thanking us for providing their Social Security. And why are they living on the Upper West Side if they can't stand children? There are plenty of child-unfriendly neighborhoods out there.
But I can't help sympathizing with Ms. Bryce's band of activists. In a place as congested and cramped as Manhattan, other people's children are a special burden. Until my own perfect child arrived, I shared their belief that this island should operate like the one on "Survivor." When parenthood hits, a voice should announce, "It's time for you to go."
IF parents insist on staying, they have to make peace with the childless majority. Here, to start negotiations, are a couple of olive branches:
Demilitarized zones. Any peace process begins by separating the combatants. Already, there are informal child-free refuges: cafes with tables too closely packed for strollers, restaurants with menus too pricey for families.
But some New Yorkers refuse to take a hint. They need to see the equivalent of a no-smoking sign clearly posted at the door: a baby with a red slash across it.
Baby-occupied territories are already easy to recognize by the stroller gridlock at the door. Even the most obtuse babyphobe knows to avoid a restaurant with crayons at the table. But just to be clear, there could be a universal baby-friendly symbol at the door -- a waiter smiling as a child in a high chair pelts him with Cheerios.
The brat tax. Children shorter than 44 inches are allowed to ride free on subways and buses, and they infuriate some adults when they take up a seat. In the old days, as the adult-rights activists point out, there were signs telling parents: "Little enough to ride for free. Little enough to ride your knee."
Parents could assuage some of the activists by giving up the seats, but it may be better to reconsider the whole question. If you think of a screaming child as an environmental disturbance, then giving a child a discount is like offering a subsidy to a polluter.
A child should pay at least full fare, and the fairest policy would be to impose a surcharge, as The Economist magazine once explained in analyzing the "negative externalities" created by children in another cramped, congested environment.
The Economist proposed that airlines segregate families at the back of the plane and charge children more than adults. The surcharge could be used to subsidize a buffer zone: a row of seats in front of the children for adults willing to endure noise in return for a special discount.
It would be complicated to set up subsidized buffer zones and special children's fares in the subway, but a brave restaurateur could certainly try the experiment. Parents wouldn't like paying extra for kiddie meals, of course, but in one way they too would benefit -- or at least the ones who now sit mortified when their kids turn into monsters.
With a brat tax, they could hold their heads high as their little darlings rampaged. If any nearby diners glared, if any adult-rights activists tried to complain, the parent could smile and calmly reply, "I paid for that tantrum."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WEST SIDE SPIRIT (NEWSPAPER) UPPER ROOM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEST SIDE SPIRIT (NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UPPER WEST SIDE (MANHATTAN); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RESTAURANTS WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); PUBLISHING (66%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; BRYCE, GAIL

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



583 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
In Korea, an Embrace That Shook the World

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
Tomorrow marks the 50th anniversary of the start of the Korean War. As all schoolchildren in North Korea know, the war began when South Korea invaded its peaceful neighbor to the north. Since then the government in Seoul has remained enslaved to a clique of generals, spies and capitalists who are puppets of the United States.
Old attitudes die hard, as is obvious from the twisted propaganda along these lines that keeps flowing from Pyongyang even after the extraordinary meeting between leaders of the North and South last week. A visitor who met with President Kim Dae Jung in Seoul after the meeting says that despite all the euphoria in his country, the South Korean president cautions that it will take decades, perhaps generations, to achieve reunification. 
 Still, anyone following recent events on the Korean Peninsula cannot help but find them amazing.
On one side is President Kim of South Korea, a former dissident once rescued from a ship -- where he was about to be tossed overboard wrapped in heavy chains by government goons -- only after intervention by the United States.
On the other is Kim Jong Il of the North, often described as a murderous megalomaniac surrounded by concubines. Among other things, in the course of his despotic career he is said to have ordered the blowing up of a civilian airliner, a bombing attack on the South Korean Cabinet and the kidnapping of a movie star and director who were forced to help build up the North Korean film industry. No wonder that The Economist features the oddly coiffed and reclusive Mr. Kim on its cover with the caption "Greetings, Earthlings."
The handful of Western visitors who have been in North Korea all liken it to another planet. When I was in Pyongyang in 1991, revolutionary slogans were everywhere, and loudspeakers at construction sites exhorted workers with picks and shovels to toil for the glory of the state. The 105-story hotel then under construction, proudly described as the tallest hotel in the world, was already sagging visibly. It still has not opened. Everyone I met recited slogans about North Korea as paradise on earth. Some admitted to meat shortages, but not to the truth of reports of starvation in the countryside.
Even if reconciliation remains a distant dream, the significance of the two Mr. Kims meeting is tremendous. It shakes the equation in East Asia and could even alter the political scene in the United States. For one thing, the meeting puts South Korea in an unaccustomed place -- the driver's seat of the policies being worked out to deal with the danger posed by the North.
For years the United States has taken the lead in negotiating with North Korea, offering a combination of threats and incentives to get it to stop building nuclear weapons. Now after negotiating a deal on nuclear and missile restraint with Pyongyang, the Clinton administration must defend its approach against charges of naivete by hawkish Republicans, including advisers to Gov. George W. Bush.
The meeting of the two Korean leaders is unlikely to soften their criticism. Indeed, some Republicans talk of "taking out" the North Korean nuclear installations. But they overlook the reality that, aside from the difficulty of destroying facilities hundreds of feet below ground, any such attempt would lead to the destruction of Seoul with a barrage of mortar, artillery and poison gas counterattacks.
In years past, the United States has served as a brake on confrontation-minded generals in Seoul. Today, with hawkish Americans calling for a tough stance toward North Korea and plans for an antimissile defense system, South Korea may be the one arguing for military restraint and political engagement.
In regional terms, the irony is that for all the yearning for reunification of the Korean Peninsula, almost no one close to the situation wants it to happen anytime soon. The South Koreans fear that a rapid absorption of the North will wreck their economy in the way Germany was weakened when it was reunified a decade ago. Russia, China and Japan -- which for centuries jockeyed for supremacy on the peninsula -- are hardly enthusiastic today about the possibility of a newly powerful rival in the neighborhood. Many American experts have no such concerns but nonetheless fear the day -- regarded by some experts as inevitable -- that Koreans ask for the United States to withdraw its troops.
Why has North Korea decided to reach out to the people it still regards as implacable foes? The answers lie in the overwhelming economic incentives and in apparent pressure from China to defuse the situation in hopes of speeding the withdrawal of the American presence. President Kim of South Korea has also done a masterly job of assuring the North that he really does not want to absorb it or destroy its system.
Finally, it appears that the unpredictable Mr. Kim of the North may be looking for legitimacy. Few doubt that North Korea remains capable of a clandestine nuclear program, missile exports or other dangerous behavior. Yet the North may be willing to keep its aggressive impulses in check in return for help from its wary adversaries. As for South Korea, for now it has taken the lead, and the rest of the world will have to respond. Who knows? The latest in North Korean movies may soon be on their way to the outside world. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CHILDREN (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); KIM JONG IL KIM JONG IL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



584 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO;
Gore Raises Millions for 2000 While an Inquiry Takes Him Back to 1996

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE with JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23

 BODY:
Within hours of ordering his lawyers to release the transcript of his interview into his 1996 fund-raising activities, Vice President Al Gore was back to business as usual today -- trolling for money.
In an affluent Silicon Valley neighborhood, Mr. Gore raised $500,000 over lunch. In Denver on Thursday, Mr. Gore headlined two events that raised a total of $1.1 million. Today, after the Silicon Valley lunch, he attended a dinner on the San Francisco waterfront where the singers David Crosby and Steven Stills serenaded several hundred people. 
 Then came a reception at a private home. The day's total take: $2 million. On Saturday, he was scheduled to attend a fund-raiser in Miami that was expected to bring his three-day total to more than $3.5 million.
The fund-raising events were broken up by the news on Thursday that, based on an April 18 deposition of Mr. Gore, a Justice Department official was asking Attorney General Janet Reno for an investigation into the vice president's money-raising activities in 1996. On Thursday night, Gore advisers read the transcripts of the deposition and on Friday, released copies to news organizations.
Concerns about Mr. Gore's overzealous money-raising, coming in the midst of a fund-raising swing, put an especially fine point on what Mr. Gore likes to call the "irony" of his situation.
Here is how Mr. Gore, who has tried to deflect criticism of his links to the fund-raising problems by calling himself "an imperfect messenger" for overhauling the campaign finance system, dealt with this uncomfortable topic at lunch today:
In a sun-splashed dining room, where paintings by Miro and Chagall decorated the stucco walls, he talked confidently about the nation's powerhouse economy, borrowing a line from Ronald Reagan: Did Americans feel they were better off today than they were eight years ago?
There was a soft murmur of assent. And then, perhaps in a nod to the issue that had dominated today's news reports, Mr. Gore briefly made a pitch for tossing out the entire campaign finance system that has caused him so much grief.
"It's an irony to talk about this issue at a fund-raising event, I realize," Mr. Gore told the dozen or so people who had paid $25,000 each to lunch on grilled salmon and vegetables. "But the first bill I will present to Congress will be the McCain-Feingold campaign finance bill."
Mr. Gore has struggled to focus attention on the upside of the Clinton administration: the economic expansion and his ideas for using the nation's growing budget surplus to improve education, health care and the environment. This forms the basis of his "prosperity and progress tour" and the underpinning of his candidacy.
But he is being pulled away from sketching out a rosy future to explaining the past. And in doing so, he is being pulled inexorably into the downside of the administration -- not just the questionable fund-raising of 1996 but the specter of the next president spending his time being questioned under oath about whether he has told the truth.
In the transcript released today, Mr. Gore gives a startling similar answer to the now-infamous answer given by President Clinton as he quibbled over the meaning of the word "is." When Mr. Gore was asked what role the coffees would play in raising money, he said: "Let me define the term 'raising,' " adding, "If you mean by it, would they be events at which money was raised, the answer is no."
For the last year, Mr. Gore has been working furiously to separate himself from an administration that has been accused repeatedly of not telling the truth even as his opponent, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, has offered himself as an alternative. And Mr. Bush clearly hoped that the call for an investigation into Mr. Gore's truthfulness would signal to voters that a Gore administration would not be that much different from Bill Clinton's. "If America is tired of scandals and investigations, let's elect somebody different, other than the people of the Clinton/Gore administration," Mr. Bush said in Alabama today.
At the time, the Gore campaign was employing a durable Clinton tactic made familiar during the Monica S. Lewinsky investigation -- pre-emptively releasing hundreds of pages of documents in an effort to defuse the controversy and dispatch it quickly.
Mr. Gore and his advisers moved in an uncharacteristically aggressive fashion to dispel any suggestion of wrongdoing and, employing another Clinton tactic, suggested that the re-emergence of the issue was, if not a vast right-wing conspiracy, at least an orchestrated smear by the Bush campaign.
The vice president hinted broadly that Thursday's disclosure of the request for an investigation was politically motivated.
"I think the timing of this whole thing speaks for itself," Mr. Gore told reporters.
"I have told the truth," he added. "I have cooperated fully. And I don't want people to have the impression that I am trying to hide something. I am not. I want you to see it all."
Mark Fabiani, a spokesman for Mr. Gore and a veteran of the Clinton White House damage-control operation, said the release of documents was the best way for the Gore campaign to fight what he described as "Republican dirty tricks."
Mr. Fabiani said the Republicans, through Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, had leaked the information because "Bush was having a bad day."
Mr. Fabiani noted that the governor had been presiding over an execution and pointed to reports that Mr. Bush's financial ties to the oil industry would render him useless in the battle against high gasoline prices.
"What the Republicans tried to do yesterday was to kick up dust and say, 'No one really knows what the issue is, but it's an issue, it's significant and it comes out of this April 18 deposition,' " Mr. Fabiani said.
Rachel Gorlin, a Democratic consultant, said the Gore campaign was probably smart to release the transcripts.
"The Clinton lesson is to show that it's worth it to engage in the discussion, partly because the public doesn't care that much and partly because this gives Gore standing" to make his case and challenge the Republicans, Ms. Gorlin said. "The thinking is, let's take the hit now and move on, that they won't find anything they can use in the fall and by then it will be old news anyway."
She also said the possible investigation illustrated the age-old problem for vice presidents seeking to become president: "Is this election about what's gone on during the previous administration or is it about what he can do in the future?"
Allies of Mr. Gore saw another possible advantage in releasing the transcripts. Although Mr. Gore uses the word "hell," apparently reinforcing reports that he was angry and confrontational during the deposition, Mr. Fabiani suggested that this showed passion, a quality that he has been accused of lacking.
Spokesmen for the Bush campaign and for Mr. Specter said there was no collusion between them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore, on the campaign trail yesterday, praised the merits of having a strong handshake, and then shook hands -- softly -- with an audience member at the San Mateo Adult School in California. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ETHICS FUNDRAISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEPOSITIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); ETHICS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; DAO, JAMES AL GORE (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



585 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Sees China's Forces as No Foreseeable Threat to U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23

 BODY:
China is modernizing its armed forces to counter military threats from technologically superior enemies, but "significant shortcomings" in its weapons and training will leave it unable to challenge the United States for "an indefinite period of time," according to a Pentagon study released today.
The Pentagon's report said China's military modernization efforts are also increasing its ability to threaten Taiwan, especially with long-range missiles. But the study concluded that the People's Liberation Army, hobbled by limitations in fighter aircraft and amphibious ships, would not fare well if ordered to invade Taiwan in the near future. 
 "In the short term (2000-2005), the P.L.A. will have only a limited capability to conduct integrated operations against Taiwan," the unclassified version of a longer classified study said.
The study, one of a series mandated by Congress, will almost certainly fuel the debate over the future of China's military and focus new attention on the diplomatically perilous issue of arms sales to Taiwan.
Because the study analyzed both strengths and weaknesses in the Chinese military, its findings amounted to a Rorschach test, providing critics and supporters of the Clinton administration's policies toward China evidence to support their views.
"You can get whatever you want out of this report," one Pentagon official said today.
Representative Christopher Cox, a California Republican and one of Capitol Hill's most ardent hawks on China, said the study highlighted President Clinton's failed efforts to engage China and the need "to view the People's Republic of China as a strategic competitor, rather than a strategic ally."
At the same time, the analysis concluded that China's leadership, headed by President Jiang Zemin, remained "largely preoccupied by domestic concerns," more than military and national security issues.
It said that in the aftermath of NATO's air war against Yugoslavia and the bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, some Chinese officials "seriously considered" giving defense a higher priority, but that the leadership "reaffirmed its priority emphasis" on economic growth during its annual retreat last August.
Even so, a potential conflict with Taiwan involving the United States has become "the dominant scenario" guiding the Chinese military's planning and weapons development, it said. The military, while lagging technologically, has been pouring resources into devising strategies and weapons to exploit American weaknesses, it found.
The Chinese have also devoted enormous efforts to developing means of "electromagnetic warfare" and attacks on computer and communications networks. And they have an "aggressive program" to buy weapons from Russia, including missiles, attack submarines and, most recently, two destroyers.
The report, which relied on intelligence findings as well as writings of China's military strategists, said the Chinese had carefully studied the 1991 Persian Gulf war and NATO's air war against Yugoslavia, where American-led forces used overwhelming force and technological superiority to crush the enemy. The analysis found that much of China's research and training now centers on countering just such an attack, by developing or buying missiles and other weapons that could threaten advanced aircraft.
Still, while China is restructuring its armed forces, its air force and navy remain too antiquated and ill-equipped to launch a serious invasion of Taiwan or other countries in the region. The navy's amphibious transport ships could carry only one infantry division across the Taiwan Strait, leaving other troops dependent on trawlers and fishing boats.
The report's findings are likely to intensify pressure on the United States to sell more and more advanced weapons to Taiwan to counter the Chinese buildup. China has strongly opposed sales to Taiwan, which it considers a renegade province. In April, the administration approved a sale of upgraded missiles and a long-range radar system, but refused Taiwan's request for four of the most advanced American destroyers.
Despite tensions, the report plays down the likelihood of open conflict between China and Taiwan, arguing that Beijing would avoid anything that risked its economic growth and access to foreign markets.
"In initiating a military conflict with Taiwan, Beijing would run the risk of jeopardizing both its continued economic development and its political standing," the report concluded. "China's resolve to employ military force, however, should not be discounted." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); DESERT STORM (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (70%); CHRISTOPHER COX (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



586 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
COLOMBIA: KIDNAP VICTIMS FREED
The victims of a pair of politically emblematic kidnappings that deeply offended the Colombian public were both released. A right-wing paramilitary group freed Guillermo Valencia, left, a member of Congress who is the brother of one of the government's chief negotiators in peace talks with leftist guerrillas. He was seized Monday in an effort to torpedo the talks, while a 5-year-old girl whose parents said she was being held by the country's main left-wing guerrilla group was released after 70 days in captivity, but only after a ransom was paid. Larry Rohter (NYT) 

VENEZUELA: VOTE SET
The presidential election scheduled for May 28 but postponed when the National Electoral Council acknowledged that its vote-counting system was hopelessly flawed has been rescheduled for July 30. Governors, members of Congress and mayors are to be elected the same day, but voting for regional and local councils has been pushed back to Oct. 1.
 Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
ARGENTINA: PRESIDENT OVERRULED
A labor court ruled to overturn a recent act of President Fernando de la Rua to cut public service salaries by 12 to 15 percent as an austerity move to reduce the deficit and cut interest rates. The ruling came after recent labor strikes but is expected to be overturned by higher courts.
 Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
IRELAND: MAD COW FRAUD
An Irish farmer was sentenced to five years in prison after pleading guilty to importing a cow with mad cow disease into his herd in 1996. James Sutton, 49, faced debts of $833,000 and stood to gain $89,000 from a government compensation program when his herd was destroyed to prevent the spread of the disease. Later investigations revealed that a smuggling operation brought in infected cattle from Northern Ireland. Brian Lavery (NYT)
 
KOSOVO: A U.N. PULLOUT
The United Nations refugee agency said it was suspending operations in the Serbian area of the divided town of Mitrovica after rioting injured aid workers. A spokeswoman, Paula Ghedini, said 5 United Nations vehicles had been destroyed in the rioting, and more than 20 damaged, while one aid worker was beaten and the homes of six aid workers attacked.
 (Agence France-Presse)
 
KOSOVO: ALBANIAN TOLL
An estimated 12,000 Kosovar Albanians died in the conflict between February 1998 and June 1999, and most of the victims were civilians, American researchers say. The death rate was two to three times higher than normal and reached its peak in the months of the NATO airstrikes and the increased Serbian ethnic cleansing, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It said its figures, published in The Lancet in London, are consistent with other estimates. (Reuters)
 
GERMANY: KOHL ATTACKED
The governing Social Democrats urged former Chancellor Helmut Kohl to resign from Parliament a day after he made comments comparing their recent treatment of him over illegal campaign funds with Nazi persecution of the Jews. A leading Social Democrat, Wilhelm Schmidt, said Mr. Kohl had become an "unacceptable liability for the entire German people." Mr. Kohl rejected the demand, saying he "requires no history lessons" from his political foes. Alan Maimon (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
NIGERIA: UNION UNREST
Public-sector pay talks have broken down, threatening a new round of unrest two weeks after a general strike over fuel prices, unions said. The Nigeria Labor Congress ordered workers to "cripple any government that refuses to comply" with monthly minimum demands of $75 a month in oil-producing states and $65 in states that do not produce oil.
 (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: TRAVEL BAN
President Abdurrahman Wahid banned travel to the Spice Islands, where Muslim fighters have been arriving to stoke communal violence that has taken thousands of lives. Eighteen more people were reported killed.
 Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
AFGHANISTAN: AID PLEA
The United Nations refugee agency called for more aid for Afghanistan, warning that drought conditions may force Afghans to flee to Pakistan and Iran. Afghanistan has been hit by its worst drought in 30 years, raising the specter of mass starvation, the agency said. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
SRI LANKA: TAMIL PLAN
President Chandrika Kumaratunga and the main opposition United National Party have agreed to form an interim council to administer Sri Lanka's northeast in an attempt to end Tamil separatist violence. Tamil Tiger rebels will not be a part of the council unless they renounce violence, officials said.
 P. J. Anthony (NYT)
 
SINGAPORE: CELL PHONE CURBS
Singapore, known for its strict anti-littering, anti-chewing-gum laws, now plans to jail motorists who hold mobile phones to their ears while driving. They face a six-month jail term for a first offense or a $588 fine, or both, as well as a driving ban, a police spokesman said. A second offense would double the fine and jail term. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: KHATAMI PLEA
President Mohammad Khatami, on the second day of a five-day visit to China, called for an "Asian convergence" aimed at standing up to Western dominance and globalization. Mr. Khatami called China and Iran two of the world's greatest civilizations, saying they needed to work together to forge the world of tomorrow, "hampering the domination of the world's unipolar system."
 (Agence France-Presse)
 
IRAN: SPY VERDICT SEEN
The judge in the trial of 13 Iranian Jews accused of spying for Israel will issue a verdict in the case on July 1, a court official said. Eight of the 13 Jewish defendants have pleaded guilty, four have pleaded innocent and one has said he passed information to Israel but did not think his action constituted espionage. Israel has said none of the 13 were spies.
 (AP)
 
UNITED NATIONS
 
RUSSIAN WALKOUT
Russia's ambassador, Sergey Lavrov, walked out of the Security Council after members voted not to allow Yugoslavia's delegate to speak in a session on the European Union's peace efforts in the Balkans. Richard C. Holbrooke, the American delegate, said the vote was based on President Slobodan Milosevic's refusal to change Yugoslavia's nomenclature and flag, saying it was unacceptable that the "flag of Tito" still flies on First Avenue.
 Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%); UNITED NATIONS (70%); TAMIL PLAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (70%); TAMIL PLAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STRIKES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MAYORS (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); SENTENCING (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (69%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (69%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (66%); RIOTS (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); REFUGEES (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (52%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



587 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: ASIA;
CHINA TOUGHENS TALK ON W.T.O. ENTRY

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Olson 

 BODY:
A top Chinese trade negotiator warned that his country would not make any more concessions to open up markets for goods and services in its bid to join the World Trade Organization. The negotiator, Long Yongtu, said some countries had raised "unreasonable requests," apparently referring to an insistence by developing countries that they receive the same trade privileges that China had negotiated with the European Union and the United States. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE BANK (92%); WORLD TRADE & MARKETING LTD (92%); WORLD TRADE BUN KEE LTD (92%); WORLD TRADE SYSTEMS PLC (92%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE IN LONDON LTD (92%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE MOSCOW JOINT STOCK CO (92%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (51%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; LONG YONGTU ELIZABETH OLSON (55%); LONG YONGTU (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



588 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Man Convicted of Setting Pipe Bombs at University

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PENSACOLA, Fla., June 23

 BODY:
A federal jury today convicted a white man of setting off two pipe bombs that terrorized the predominantly black Florida A&M University.
The defendant, Lawrence M. Lombardi, 42, was convicted of possessing and using bombs, causing destruction with bombs and using bombs to cause harm and intimidation because of race or color. 
 Mr. Lombardi, an unemployed embalmer who once stocked vending machines at the university, faces up to life in prison when he is sentenced on Sept. 15.
The bombings on Aug. 31 and Sept. 22 caused only minor damage to restrooms in administration and classroom buildings, and no one was hurt.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA A&M UNIVERSITY FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (91%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA A&M UNIVERSITY FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (91%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; BLACKS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); SENTENCING (88%); JURY TRIALS (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); 

PERSON: LOMARDI, LAWRENCE M LAWRENCE M LOMBARDI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000



589 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 15; Page 13; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: NEW MOTHERHOOD;
A Racial Gap in Infant Deaths, and a Search for Reasons

BYLINE: By LESLIE BERGER; Leslie Berger contributes articles about health to Science Times.

 BODY:
ETHELYN BOWERS had a master's degree, an executive-level job and a husband who was a doctor with access to some of the best medical care available. But her accomplishments and connections seemed to make little difference when she endured the premature births and subsequent deaths of three babies, two of whom were in a set of triplets.
A competitive businesswoman who is immersed in her career and the hectic schedules of her surviving children, now 9 and 11, Ms. Bowers is candid about her losses but does not dwell on their possible causes. "I just chalked it up to bad luck, mainly," said Ms. Bowers, a sales director for Lucent Technologies who lives with her family in Livingston, N.J. 
 But her husband is haunted by the notion that somehow, in a way experts have yet to fully grasp, the fact that he and his wife are African-American was a factor in their children's deaths.
"At the time of the loss, you really don't dissect out the reasons; all you really think about is the tremendous sorrow," said her husband, Dr. Charles H. Bowers, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Kings County Hospital Center in Brooklyn. "In retrospect, I think you need to look at psychosocial causes -- the euphemism I use for racism. If in fact my counterpart, a white physician making six figures, had a wife the same age and her likelihood of losing their child was less than half of my wife's chances of losing my child, why should that be?"
It is a mystery that consumes not only Dr. Bowers but a growing field of researchers struggling to explain a persistent racial gap in American infant mortality rates. For years, the number of babies who die before their first birthday has been a source of shame for public health advocates; in international comparisons of infant mortality, the World Health Organization has ranked the United States 25th, below Japan, Israel and Western Europe. But even as infant mortality rates improve -- to a record low national average of 7.2 deaths per 1,000 live births -- the disparity between blacks and whites has grown, from 2 to nearly 2.4 times the number of infant deaths.
Especially troubling is evidence that this is not simply a function of poverty. While college-educated black women do better than impoverished, they are still twice as likely to bury their babies as their white counterparts. And immigrants have better pregnancy outcomes than assimilated minorities. What happens to their health once they settle here, and And why haven't education, better jobs and prenatal care made a bigger difference in closing the infant mortality gap?
"There's no single answer," said Dr. Solomon Iyasu, an epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. "Infant mortality is such a complex issue because it's driven both by medical issues as well as by social issues."
Because premature deliveries and low birth weights account for two-thirds of infant deaths, much recent research has focused on the causes of early labor. Medical complications from diabetes and high blood pressure, more prevalent illnesses in African-Americans, can be blamed for some of the cases but do not account for the huge disparity. So researchers have begun exploring more subtle factors, like crime, pollution and family support. Another hypothesis is that chronic stress caused by racial discrimination can elevate hormones that set off premature labor.
"We're starting to think it's something about lifelong minority status," said Dr. James W. Collins Jr., a neonatologist in Chicago who teaches pediatrics at Northwestern University Medical School.
Dr. Collins has compared the newborns of black women born in the United States to those of mothers who came directly from Africa, and found that the immigrants' babies were bigger, with birth weights more comparable to whites than to African-Americans. Another study involving interracial couples indicated that the mother's race was crucial: babies born to black mothers and white fathers had higher rates of low birth weight.
The intergenerational effects of poverty and discrimination are also being explored amid concerns that a woman's health and personal experiences -- even before she becomes pregnant -- can affect her children's health.
"It's not clear that if you have a woman who's first-generation college-educated that she's still not carrying the risks of generations of poverty," said Dr. Marie McCormick, a pediatrician and professor of child and maternal health at the Harvard School of Public Health. "There is also increasing evidence that having been born with a low birth weight yourself, you're more likely to have a low-birth-weight child."
Stress-fueled hormones can also lower resistance to infection, Dr. Collins said, and black women have higher rates of vaginal infection, which can spread to the uterus and induce early labor. In locating the source of those infections, which are not sexually transmitted, some researchers have begun looking at douching, a more common practice among black women than white, according to Dr. Dawn Misra, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University.
After premature births, the second leading cause of infant deaths is SIDS, or sudden infant death syndrome. SIDS rates have dropped about 40 percent since 1992, when the American Academy of Pediatrics began a campaign to put babies on their backs or sides to sleep instead of on their stomachs. But African-American infants continue to die of SIDS at twice the rate of other babies, leading researchers to wonder whether the message is reaching black parents.
As the head obstetrician for Bronx clinics run by Montefiore Medical Center, Dr. Nereida Correa gives all her patients a booklet on SIDS and arranges for a pediatrician to attend at least one prenatal session to review infant safety and care. Because most of her patients are poor black and Hispanic women whose Medicaid coverage ends six weeks after giving birth, Dr. Correa tries to pack in as much advice as she can.
On a recent morning at the Williamsbridge clinic, Dr. Correa's patients included Monica Lightbourne, who had been fired from her job as a Kmart sales manager and was fighting the store and the state unemployment board as she entered her 36th week of pregnancy. Another patient, Beverly Roman, who was not pregnant, recalled the death of her first child, a month-old daughter, in Jamaica nearly 20 years ago, after a malnourished teenage pregnancy.
Dr. Correa, who grew up poor in Manhattan, listens patiently to all their concerns and still manages to see three to four women an hour on a slow day. Despite their risks, her patients generally deliver healthy babies, and Dr. Correa remains a believer in the power of prenatal care. The problem, she said, is her patients' lack of health insurance when they are not pregnant.
Dr. McCormick also considers insurance an important piece of the infant mortality puzzle. "Over all, I don't think we take care of our mothers and children very well," she said. "We have a patchwork system of health care. Other countries have financial support for child care and young families and longer maternity leaves and some sort of national health insurance coverage, and I think over time all this adds up." Still, insurance and quality care were not issues for the Bowers.
Dr. Bowers was on staff at Mount Sinai when his wife's preterm deliveries occurred; her own doctor was the chairman of obstetrics. Their first son, Russell, was stillborn at 23 weeks in 1986. Two years later, Ms. Bowers was pregnant with triplets when a checkup revealed that a fetus had died in utero at 28 weeks. She eventually delivered two girls, each weighing about a pound and a half. One, Erin, died a month later after developing a bowel infection. The second daughter, Charlynn, survived. In 1991, Ms. Bowers delivered a full-term boy, Carlton, who weighed 8 pounds, 6 ounces.
Today, Dr. Bowers is part of a committee that investigates local fetal and infant deaths and was set up by the Northern New Jersey Maternal Child Health Consortium. He also raises money for research.
"The hardest thing in my life has been losing my babies," he said. "I've had a very good life. I've got three great kids, but I should have had six."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Nereida Correa, left, runs a Montefiore Hospital program for women on infant health. Beverly Roman, above, a patient, lost her month-old daughter 20 years ago. (Photographs by Edwine Seymour for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (67%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (67%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BLACKS; RESEARCH; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; INCOME; INFANT MORTALITY INFANT MORTALITY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (88%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (72%); IMMIGRATION (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, LESLIE CHARLES H BOWERS (76%); JAMES W COLLINS JR (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



590 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: June 25, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	3	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Dell, $7.99.) Seven years after his escape, the fiendish psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	IRISH HEARTS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.50.) Two previously published novels, now in one volume, about Irishwomen's lives in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	WHILE I WAS GONE, by Sue Miller. (Ballantine, $12.95.) A small-town veterinarian, the wife of a minister, begins a flirtation with an old friend.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	2	IRISH REBEL, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $4.50.) The latest novel in a series about Irish families in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	1	ECLIPSE BAY, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Jove, $7.50.) A man and a woman, whose Oregon families are engaged in a longtime feud, fall in love.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	6	RIVER'S END, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) The daughter of a glamorous Hollywood couple must cope with her family's horrifying past.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	THE BLUEST EYE, by Toni Morrison. (Plume, $12.95.) The story of an 11-year-old black girl -- pregnant by her father -- who prays for blue eyes.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	6	 *THE SAVING GRACES, by Patricia Gaffney. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The close friendship that binds four women is put to the test.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	1	THE NEW JEDI ORDER. Dark Tide: Ruin, by Michael A. Stackpole. (Lucas/Del Rey/ Ballantine, $6.99.) A "Star Wars" novel.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	1	 *PEARL COVE, by Elizabeth Lowell. (Avon, $7.50.) Seeking help in solving the mystery of her husband's death, a woman finds romance.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	30	WHERE THE HEART IS, by Billie Letts. (Warner, $12.) A pregnant teenager finds help.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	40	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $5.99.) A British boy attends a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	2	TRANSFER OF POWER, by Vince Flynn. (Pocket, $6.99.) A terrorist group descends on the White House and captures nearly 100 hostages.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	24	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Island, $7.99.) A billionaire, a lawyer and a missionary are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	4	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Penguin, $12.95.) The life of a young New York woman.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	2	 *TOMORROW'S PROMISE, by Sandra Brown. (Mira, $6.99.) A woman learns that her husband, long missing in action, may be alive.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	106	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (HarperPerennial, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991, focusing on a single crew of fishermen.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	84	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	48	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Vintage, $12.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	5	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	110	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 6	55	ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/S&S, $14 and $7.99.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood in Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	15	THE ELEGANT UNIVERSE, by Brian Greene. (Vintage, $15.) A presentation of superstring theory, which attempts to mediate between quantum mechanics and general relativity.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	3	 *THE FIRST WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Vintage, $16.) A military historian recounts the 1914-18 conflict.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	49	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	61	 *THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 11	5	EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Berkley, $16.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	63	 *GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEl, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geography. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 13	10	 *BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $15.) An American remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	7	RAISING CAIN, by Dan Kindlon and Michael Thompson with Teresa Barker. (Living Planet/ Ballantine, $14.) The emotional life of boys.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	41	 *THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN, by Simon Winchester. (HarperPerennial, $13.) How a murderer helped compile the O.E.D.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	8	CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE TEENAGE SOUL III, compiled by Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen and Kimberly Kirberger. (Health Communications, $12.95.) Inspirational stories. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	193	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	7	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	THE WORST-CASE SCENARIO SURVIVAL HANDBOOK, by Joshua Piven and David Borgenicht. (Chronicle, $14.95.) Coping with life's nasty surprises, from quicksand to killer bees.	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 10, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); IRELAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); TERRORISM (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (55%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



591 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: Boys to Men

BYLINE: By Robert Coles; Robert Coles is a child psychiatrist who teaches at Harvard University.

 BODY:

 The War Against Boys
 How Misguided Feminism Is Harming
 Our Young Men.
 By Christina Hoff Sommers.
 251 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $25.
 
 Real Boys' Voices
 By William S. Pollack with Todd Shuster.
 392 pp. New York:
 Random House. $25.95. 
 We are asked now by two writers, one a philosopher, the other a psychologist, to consider the contemporary fate of America's boys -- how they have been faring in recent years. The philosopher, Christina Hoff Sommers, tells us right off, through the wording of her title, that we ought be concerned, even alarmed: there is a "War Against Boys"; then in a subtitle we learn that "Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men." The psychologist, William S. Pollack, offers, with Todd Shuster, "Real Boys' Voices" and immediately summons "the Boy Code," defined as "old rules that favor male stoicism and make boys feel ashamed about expressing weakness or vulnerability." Indeed, before any of the boys' voices are given ample presentation, the writing listener makes this insistent and conclusive summary: "Although our boys urgently want to talk about who they really are, they fear that they will be teased, bullied, humiliated, beaten up and even murdered if they give voice to their truest feelings." This in a democracy -- but the author is not a sociologist or a political scientist, so he quietly calls upon his own profession: "Thus, our nation is home to millions of boys who feel they are navigating life alone -- who on an emotional level are alone -- and who are cast out to sea in separate lifeboats, and feel they are drowning in isolation, depression, loneliness and despair."
What is one to make of such portentous propositions, if not outright prognostications? Sommers once taught at Clark University, but these days she is the W. H. Brady fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. She is no stranger to polemics, and is not reluctant to declare herself an adversary. Her previous book was titled "Who Stole Feminism? How Women Have Betrayed Women." Pollack works at McLean Hospital outside Boston and teaches at Harvard Medical School, and this new book of his is an obvious continuation of a longstanding interest and commitment, first declared two years ago with the publication of "Real Boys." That book's subtitle also pointed to worrying news: "Rescuing Our Sons From the Myths of Boyhood."
Pollack is still comfortable with the suggestion that there is enough trouble for American boys to justify such an attempt; he is quick in both books to spell out the social and emotional hazards our young men must endure. And in both books, he spots evidence of youthful trembling, of persistent worries that life will turn bad: "Many boys are still telling us that when they walk the streets of their neighborhoods or the hallways of their schools, they have to watch everything they do to make sure they will not be taunted and attacked." But he can go further, refer to "constant fear and anxiety," turn all too rhetorical, present himself to the reader as a psychiatric claimant for an entire nation's boys: "They need to form meaningful friendships and relationships in which they can be openly caring, loving and affectionate without fear of being seen as 'weak' or 'feminine.' "Some pages earlier, we are warned that "a majority of America's boys experiment with drugs and alcohol, many slipping precipitously toward addiction," though nowhere is evidence offered for such a sweeping assertion. Then comes this psychological escalation -- again unsupported: "Still others fill the social and emotional void with their fascination with television (more than 80 percent of boys tune in every day), the Internet, video games and the whole gamut of electronic media. There's a broad dilemma of disconnection that is infecting our culture."
The boys Pollack calls as personal witnesses can be persuasively introspective and socially discerning. They speak compellingly, sometimes with winning earnestness and candor. Antonio, 17 and from the Northeast, confides that "my pen and paper are my shelter." Gordon, 18 and from the South, quotes pointedly from Sherwood Anderson's "Winesburg, Ohio," and with a wry shrewdness from J. D. Salinger's "Catcher in the Rye" -- Holden Caulfield lives in this young man's mind, as he has for so many of us, still, long after we met him. "God is the person who is there when nobody else is," Cedric, 14, a city boy from the Northeast, announces, and his religious musings are shared by many of the boys whose voices are put forth in this book. These self-portraits are conveyed with disarming innocence one moment, with knowing bluntness the next, and altogether, from boy after boy, with a great deal of savvy that in its sum might give pause to those who worry about this generation's capacity to take accurate measure of what is happening (socially, economically, culturally) and why.
No question, such forthright testimonies are not to be met in Christina Sommers's pages. She speaks of our children, yet hasn't sought them out; instead she attends those who have, in fact, worked with boys and girls -- and in so doing is quick to look askance at Carol Gilligan's ideas about girls, Pollack's about boys. Much of "The War Against Boys" comes across as Sommers's strongly felt war against those two prominent psychologists, who have spent years trying to learn how young men and women grow to adulthood in the United States. Pollack, we are informed, "is attributing pathology to normal boys, and his conclusions are expansive and alarming." The same charge is directed at Gilligan, at her well-known book "In a Different Voice," and at her more recent effort to understand how boys as well as girls come to sometimes difficult terms with our country's social conventions and values. At moments, a lengthy, disapproving attention to Gilligan becomes argumentatively strained, raised to a high, hectoring pitch: "I find Gilligan's sentimental, celebratory, valorizing description of adolescent girls implausible and inaccurate. Her study of 'unfairness and not listening' -- despite its charts, graphs and tables -- is a caricature of research. Most of the girls' comments are entirely ordinary. Gilligan inflates their significance by reading profound meanings into them." As for Gilligan's recent work, she "appears to be making the same mistake with boys that she made with girls" -- that is, "she observes a few children and interprets their problems as indicative of a deep and general malaise caused by the way our society imposes sex-role stereotypes on them."
Sommers wants to examine Gilligan's working research files, makes bold to ask whether "the data actually exist." She tells us, intending a put-down, that Gilligan's "methods have remained anecdotal and impressionistic -- with increasingly heavy doses of psychoanalytical theorizing." Such a description, of course (if meant to be friendly and appreciative), might aptly be applied to the work of Freud himself, and to that of Erik H. Erikson, Gilligan's deservedly esteemed teacher -- whereas Sommers shows little interest in exploring with favor the manner in which an attentive psychologist or psychiatrist can learn from people, then describe them in a way (clinical storytelling) that brings to life their experiences and concerns, connects them to the imaginations of countless readers.
As I read through this book's dense excursions into a "war" that seems directed at feminist writers, who have had their own (quite understandable) reasons to worry about the way girls, and boys too, have come to regard their future prospects (and contemporary situations), I kept thinking of others who have been "anecdotal" and "impressionistic" in their attempts to know boys and girls adequately and fully -- writers with no claim to science, only the novelist's intuitions and descriptive, evocative capabilities. I thought of Elizabeth Bowen's girl Portia, in "The Death of the Heart," and Toni Morrison's girl Pecola, in "The Bluest Eye"; Tobias Wolff's chronicle of boyhood in "This Boy's Life"; Richard Ford's similar probing of a boy's fate under a particular set of American circumstances, in "Independence Day," and yes, the sonorous, echoing prefiguration of that book's title (and story) in the song of that name offered by our troubadour, Bruce Springsteen -- all of them quite able to give us searching glimpses of our sons and daughters, who Sommers worries are being shortchanged by some of our social scientists, and by the journalists she seems to regard as gullible or irresponsible. (She refers to "journalists who prefer disseminating sensational claims to looking for dissenting voices," and speaks of "uncritical journalism.") Let us hope and pray that more citizens of our country, and with them the author of "The War Against Boys," will seek the truths about those boys (and girls) that our novelists and poets and singers render for our consideration. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WAR AGAINST BOYS, THE (BOOK); REAL BOYS' VOICES (BOOK)

TICKER: BRCOA (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); LITERATURE (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: COLES, ROBERT (DR); SOMMERS, CHRISTINA HOFF; POLLACK, WILLIAM S (DR); SHUSTER, TODD WILLIAM S POLLACK (83%); CHRISTINA HOFF SOMMERS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



592 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: It's Been Hell on Earth

BYLINE: By Dick Teresi; Dick Teresi is writing a book about the non-European roots of Western science.

 BODY:

 SOMETHING NEW
 UNDER THE SUN
 An Environmental History
 of the Twentieth-Century World.
 By J. R. McNeill.
 Illustrated. 421 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $29.95. 
 On an April day in 1970 I was riding an elevator to my job at Fawcett Publications (our motto: "Something for every page!") when the executive vice president, a man not usually taken to speaking to science editors, cornered me and poked an executive finger into my sternum. "Y'ever heard of this ecology thing?" he demanded. He pronounced it with a long, hard "E." The previous day, after drinks at the Park Lane, he had wandered into Central Park, no doubt in search of bad novels to sign up, where he had run smack into the first Earth Day celebration. He had learned a new word. "Keep your eye on this EEE-cology thing," he barked at me. "It's going to be big!"
Not big enough, apparently, is the message of J. R. McNeill's "Something New Under the Sun: An Environmental History of the Twentieth-Century World." McNeill, a professor of history at Georgetown University, tells us how humans have altered the earth from the 1890's to the 1990's. We've done a lot. O.K., asteroid crashes and volcanic explosions, McNeill concedes, can do more in one fell swoop than we can. The five previous great extinctions, like the one that erased 90 percent of marine species, make our clubbing of harp seals and building of strip malls seem pathetic by comparison. When the biography of the earth is written, our effect on the planet will be a footnote at best -- until 1890. In the past century, McNeill says, that started to change. We are beginning, as high school valedictorians always promise, to make a difference.
The author has compiled a volcanic eruption of statistics to prove this. Usually such numbers, in the hands of environmentalists, are nothing more than "cocktail statistics," meaningless tidbits to share with Tipper and Al or Annette and Warren over tofu canapes and mineral water. My favorite: we lose a football field's worth of rain forest each second. About which I always wonder, American rules or Canadian? Or, 75 percent of the water we use in our homes is used in the bathroom, to which P. J. O'Rourke says: "Thank goodness. Think of the mess it would make in the den."
McNeill spares us such trivia, serving up his numbers rare, such as 13x, 16x, 40x (the increases, respectively, in the world's urban population, energy use and industrial output during the past century). He doesn't examine man's assault on the earth as an environmentalist, but as a historian: "The human race, without intending anything of the sort, has undertaken a gigantic uncontrolled experiment on the earth. In time, I think, this will appear as the most important aspect of 20th-century history, more so than World War II, the Communist enterprise, the rise of mass literacy, the spread of democracy or the growing emancipation of women."
McNeill's tone will not please liberals, because of his lack of moral outrage. He writes about deforestation with the same dispassion that one might use to describe the 17th-century defenestrations in Prague. And conservatives will not like the content he thus delivers: world economic growth, up 120 times since 1500, has exacted an enormous toll on the earth's crust, atmosphere, water supply, plants, animals and finally on its rogue species, us.
We used 10 times as much energy in the 20th century as in the 1,000 previous years. Before 1900, humans had little impact on earth and rock, compared with oceanic volcanoes, tectonic movements (mountain building) and glaciers. By the 1990's, we had surpassed all of them, moving 42 billion tons of rock and soil per year against 30 billion tons by volcanoes, 14 billion tons by tectonics and only 4.3 billion tons by glaciers. And why not? A single bulldozer operator today has as much power at his control as an Egyptian Pharaoh with all his slaves.
We have lost in one century an amount of topsoil it took 1,000 years to form, and we're running out of clean water. Take the Ogallala Aquifer, an underground river stretching from South Dakota to Texas. In the 30's, when we began using the aquifer for irrigation, it was equal in volume to Lake Huron. Nature took 25,000 years to make the Ogallala. We will sprinkle the remainder away within 20 to 30 years. Joining the assault on the earth is the chain saw, which allows us to cut trees 100 to 1,000 times faster than with axes; without it the clearance of tropical forests might not have happened. (The need for a new football field every second is not a driving factor.)
The author thinks we suffer from "ideological lock-in." Prevailing ideas and politics, from an ecological perspective, have changed little. After 1880 economists took nature out of economics. Robert Solow, the 1987 Nobel Prize winner in economics, claimed "the world can, in effect, get along without natural resources." There is plenty of blame to go around. "While economists ignored nature," McNeill says, "ecologists pretended humankind did not exist."
"Something New Under the Sun" is full of big numbers. I sought help from Michael Sutherland, the director of the Statistical Consulting Center at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Sutherland is an expert at detecting fake or misleading statistics, but found no such problem with McNeill's, pointing out that he always identifies his sources and is willing to cite numbers that point in different directions, as often happens in real life. McNeill doesn't attempt to make his statistics dovetail to further a point. Sutherland also applauded McNeill's penchant for not always interpreting the numbers, leaving that responsibility to the reader. He was amazed, however, at the dearth of data on the environment. "We know more about commercial shipping than about the condition of the earth," Sutherland says, "and we have few statistics beyond the U.S."
McNeill tempers his numbers. He points out that while soil erosion appears catastrophic, "more food per capita was available by the end of the 20th century than at any time in human history," thanks to better agricultural technology. And while air pollution killed as many people in the century as the two world wars, he points out that air pollution kills the sick, elderly and very young, while wars kill people in the prime of life -- quite a different matter from social and economic points of view.
This is a book about the collective work of lots of people (the 80 billion people born in the past four million years), but there are entertaining stories, too. There's Thomas Midgley, a chemical engineer who in 1921 figured out that adding lead to gasoline would allow it to burn better. By the 70's most Americans had elevated lead levels in their blood. In 1930-31, Midgley went on to invent Freon, which eats ozone molecules. He eventually contracted polio, and built a system of ropes and pulleys to help him in and out of bed. Midgley, perhaps the most politically incorrect man of the century, strangled himself in the contraption and died suspended in midair.
PRINCESS DIANA and President George Bush notwithstanding, land mines and Saddam Hussein have proved beneficial to the environment. "Iraqi land mines in the Kuwaiti desert kept people out and allowed a resurgence of animal and plant life in the 1990's," McNeill writes. Heinrich Himmler's SS was ecologically correct, too, with plans to establish an enormous wildlife preserve in Europe. The Poles, however, opposed the SS's choice of a site: Poland. An early conservationist, Peter the Great, introduced laws on wildlife conservation, forest preservation, overfishing, soil conservation and water pollution between 1689 and 1725. Catherine the Great, despite her fondness for horses, later rescinded most of these laws. Admirers of Eastern religions will learn that in the 1980's the Ganges was choked by several million tons of ashes per month -- cremated remains of the 30 million Hindus per year who sought post-mortem salvation in the sacred river. German U-boats helped restore marine life in the North Atlantic during World War II by scaring fishermen back into port. McNeill says that humans have done a good job of preserving several species -- those we find delicious.
"Something New Under the Sun" is an original work of history, exhaustively researched and carefully written. The message, however, is not particularly pleasant. McNeill writes that the future is "inherently uncertain" and that "sharp adjustments will be required." The most hopeful statement here comes from James Watt, President Ronald Reagan's secretary of the interior. Nominated by a man who blamed trees for air pollution, Watt said environmentalists were not real Americans and suggested they should be shot. At his Senate confirmation hearings, he said there was no need to worry about the environment. An apocalypse, being prepared by God, Watt told the senators, was imminent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); HISTORY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); MARINE BIOLOGY (76%); WRITERS (76%); BOTTLED WATER (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (74%); EARTH DAY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MINING OUTPUT (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); CLASS RANKING (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: TERESI, DICK; MCNEILL, J R

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



593 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 5; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: You Go First. No, You.

BYLINE: By Stephanie Zacharek; Stephanie Zacharek is a staff writer for the online magazine Salon.com.

 BODY:

 Emotionally Weird
 By Kate Atkinson.
 355 pp. New York:
 Picador USA. $25. 
 SOMETIMES it's clear in a novel's first 50 pages that its story is going nowhere fast. But there are other times, and harder cases, when a novelist kicks off a book with such lively, crackling prose and such deft character descriptions that you hang on desperately to the hope that its plot is going somewhere good.
The British writer Kate Atkinson's third novel, "Emotionally Weird" -- her debut, "Behind the Scenes at the Museum," won Britain's Whitbread Prize in 1995 -- keeps hope alive so long that it's a bitter disappointment when everything ends up falling apart. The book's first third is a bustling affair, with Atkinson keeping us happily amused and distracted as she introduces a gleefully polychrome cast of characters, most of them students or teachers at Dundee University circa 1972. Here's how she describes one preternaturally disgruntled literature professor who specializes in the 19th-century novel (fixating on the topic "Why Women Write"): "Maggie Mackenzie's long iron-gray hair began each day anchored or plaited or rolled in a variety of vaguely Victorian styles but by lunchtime it had begun to work its way free of restraints and encumbrances and by midafternoon she had the appearance of someone leading a tribe of ancient Britons into battle, a gnarled warrior queen bearing grudges."
Atkinson has the gift of being able to describe a stereotype (in this case, the 70's-era angry feminist scholar -- the sort that Camille Paglia would later christen "hangdog dowdies") in terms that make you laugh in recognition even as they do more than simply recycle cliches. Many of us have encountered those uptight academic buns, but the idea of their wrenching themselves free of the tyranny of hairpins is a new twist.
But there's a problem with too much clever wordplay and so many enticingly detailed descriptions: they can build you up just to let you down. Atkinson is terrific at setting the stage for her story; she just hasn't given it a very good foundation, and eventually it crumbles away to nothing.
"Emotionally Weird" is really two intertwining stories that make for one gangly comic novel. As the book opens, Effie and her mother, Nora, have sequestered themselves in Nora's large, dank family home off the coast of Scotland, where they've decided to wrap themselves in shawls and blankets and tell each other stories. Effie regales her mother with a semi-surreal adventure about her life as a student at Dundee; her narrative includes an array of oddball teachers, a yellow dog that's hit by a car only to be miraculously brought back to life, and a hapless stoner boyfriend named Bob, for whom the Klingons on "Star Trek" are as real as "the French or the Germans, more real certainly than, say, Luxembourgers." The madcap tale she spins is made even more mysterious by the fact that someone just may be following her, and she has no idea why.
Nora's story is more gothic, more tragic, and it involves a series of secrets about Effie's past. It's darker and more conventional than Effie's story, but it's also more engaging, perhaps because it's much more economical. Effie's story, on the other hand, goes on. And on.
As Effie's tale trundles forward, it becomes more and more apparent that Atkinson is desperately trying to give us a rollicking good time; the harder she tries, the murkier her narrative gets. And she undoes herself by being too clever. At one point Nora interrupts Effie's narrative to ask, mockingly, if a detail that she's just revealed is supposed to be magic realism -- a sly wink from Atkinson that suggests she knows how tiresome that crusty old device can be. But that doesn't stop Atkinson from winking at us again some 100 pages later, when Effie performs a highly unlikely miracle using a scrap of paper and a lighter and then breaks her narrative to tell Nora, "Now that's magic realism." You can mock magic realism or you can punish your readers by subjecting them to it -- but you can't have it both ways.
Atkinson is so good at describing her characters that she introduces altogether too many of them, and many of the better ones don't have much to do. You want more of some (like Olivia, the quiet, intelligent student who's landed herself in an affair with a rakish teacher) and less of others (stoner Bob is mildly entertaining at first but becomes increasingly numbing with every "Star Trek"-related quip he comes out with). In the end, Effie's tale -- and Atkinson's whole novel -- becomes burdened with so many extraneous and forcedly bizarre details that it wobbles off its axis. "Emotionally Weird" is clearly supposed to be a rumination on the bond between mothers and daughters, and Effie's shaggy-dog story is most likely intended as a metaphorical reflection of her emotional state. Too bad it untwirls itself halfway through like poor Maggie Mackenzie's hairdo, and no amount of frantic wrapping and pinning can contain all its stray ends.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa DiPietrc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EMOTIONALLY WEIRD (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); 

PERSON: ZACHAREK, STEPHANIE; ATKINSON, KATE KATE ATKINSON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



594 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 16; Page 8; Column 3; Men & Health 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Now You Can Take Your Office to the Gym

BYLINE: By DAPHNE PALMER GEANACOPOULOS 

 BODY:
IT happened while I was working out at my local gym not long ago, warming up on a treadmill and humming a jazzy tune. From the treadmill next to me came the sound of a woman giving a speech about economic policy. I turned to look, and sure enough, a fellow exerciser was reading out loud from a set of 3-by-5 index cards she held firmly while she ran 12-minute miles.
Another time, another song. A man on an adjacent Stairmaster was editing legal articles, scribbling in the margins (and dotting the pages with perspiration) as he listened to music on his headphones. 
 Still another afternoon, a phone rang. It was the Lifecycle next to me. A man wearing a "Just Do It" T-shirt answered his cell phone and gazed up at a ceiling-mounted television tuned to a financial channel. "Sell!" he shouted.
This was beginning to feel like a trend. Eager to learn more, I sought out the man on the Stairmaster and asked him why he had chosen to take his work to his workout.
He turned out to be Ken Anderson, a 44-year-old law professor at American University in Washington, who replied that he was pressed for time, juggling his family, job and five workouts a week. "It's the only way I can justify my time at the gym," he said. "I can't afford to be checked out of the day for two straight hours. It's a time management thing."
Mark Occhipinti, the president of American Fitness Professionals and Associates, a certification and educational organization in Ship Bottom, N.J., confirms that Mr. Anderson has lots of company. "It's a fitness trend of big cities and affluent suburbs, where people need information and are very stressed," Mr. Occhipinti said. "It's a symptom of our time."
Health clubs, once havens for relaxation, have responded to the new demands by providing equipment that enables members to mix efficiency with exercise. Televisions are tuned to the news, courtesy phones are within easy reach, and at some clubs, Netpulse stations (computers providing Internet access) are attached to Lifecycle and Stairmaster machines. They enable members to do work (and earn frequent-flier miles from Netpulse's airline sponsors for every mile they pedal or step), from their gym-desks.
"It's a fact of life that people are busy," said Maeve McCaffrey, a spokeswoman for the International Health, Racquet and Sportsclub Association, a trade group in Boston. "If members need to be productive while they exercise, we are going to do everything we can to make it easier for them to enjoy their time at the gym."
But not everyone is convinced that this is a good idea. "Doing anything while on the treadmill is dangerous," said Dr. Nicholas DiNubile, an orthopedic surgeon in Havertown, Pa., who is an adviser to the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. "Talking on cell phones or reading while exercising can cause nerve strain in the head and neck. Workout form is important."
Multitasking may be an efficient use of gym time, but it compromises the quality of a workout, said Matt Johns, the former director of operations at the Regency Sport and Health Club in McLean, Va. "You still burn calories, but the workout is not the same," he said. "There has to be a mind-body connection."
Dr. David Brown, a behavioral scientist with the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said that although there was little research on working while working out, "in general, disassociating from the exercise experience, by doing something other than exercise, can lead to risks."
Mr. Occhipinti knows that firsthand: he once saw a man fall and break his arm while reading on a treadmill. But he adds that health clubs are reluctant to reproach their clients. "It's a delicate situation," he said. "You don't want to offend or upset the client. We try to educate them about safety, but people are going to do what they want to do."
Richard Cotton, the chief exercise physiologist for the American Council on Exercise, a nonprofit watchdog organization in San Diego, agreed. "Clubs provide all sorts of equipment -- TV's, Netpulse, E-Zone," he said. "It would be difficult to tell someone not to use it."
Beyond safety, however, is another concern. Despite the lack of research, many experts share the view that people who take their work to their workout are missing a prime benefit of exercise: its ability to reduce stress. "Exercise is one of the few leisure activities for relaxation," Dr. DiNubile said. "Working while working out is a missed opportunity at stress reduction."
But he won't find much sympathy at my health club. "Working while working out is stress-reducing," Mr. Anderson said. "I'm away from my office, the computer, and I'm further ahead in my work. It's a sanity-saving device."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Phil Marden)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: EXERCISE EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); TRENDS (89%); MUSIC (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); FITNESS CENTERS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: GEANACOPOULOS, DAPHNE PALMER MARK OCCHIPINTI (69%); KEN ANDERSON (69%); NICHOLAS DINUBILE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



595 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: How to Survive Economy Class

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE; DAISANN McLANE writes the Frugal Traveler column.

 BODY:
MANY of the great yoga masters of India spent decades sitting tightly crosslegged in minuscule caves, sustained only by an occasional meager meal slipped into the recesses of their cells. I draw inspiration from these yogis as I sit, hour after hour, strapped into the modern-day equivalent of a bed of nails: the economy class seat.
Usually, the passenger to my front has reclined his seat, forcing me to follow suit to keep my nose from being broken by his head cushion. The "recline" position is murder on the lower back, so I shove a pillow between the seat and the base of my spine. 
 Then there's the dilemma of knees. They bump against the seat pocket (filled to bursting with a thick stack of airline magazines, in-flight shopping catalogs, and entertainment guides for the movie that is being shown on a screen so small, and so far away, I wonder why they didn't pass out binoculars with the headsets). I can feel a wave of pins and needles coming on.
So I slip out my legs, carefully, and extend them, tucking one under the seat in the four-inch space beside my carry-on. I extend the other, discreetly, alongside the aisle. It's a position that's better for blood circulation, but not so good if the beverage cart comes down the aisle while you're napping.
In the last two years, I have flown economy class three times back and forth to Asia, eight times across the Atlantic, twice to California, Florida and the Caribbean, once to South America and once around the world. I've bought my tickets in a variety of ways, through travel agents, through airlines, on Internet sites and through air consolidator-brokers -- and I've found it possible, with a bit of effort, to secure a discounted fare (sometimes an amazingly discounted fare) for all my itineraries.
Although my tickets have been cheap, my flights, in nearly every instance, have been reasonably on time. I've traveled with airlines ranging from Continental to Egypt Air to Lao Aviation, and not once have I been bumped, forced to wait hours in an airport, or been poisoned by the in-flight food. My baggage, which I usually check, rather than carry on (more on this later) has never failed to arrive at its destination when I did (although once, in Brazil, it arrived before me). As far as the basics go, the airlines have delivered.
Cheap, safe and efficient though my economy air travel has been, I cannot recall a time, since my first Allegheny Airlines flight, in 1964, when flying coach class has been less pleasant. I am not talking about frills, now largely jettisoned, like toothbrush kits, menu cards, hot towels and hot meals on every flight over two hours. To get cheaper fares, I'm glad to relinquish such little extras to the folks in business class.
But the Faustian bargain that the economy-class traveler strikes with the airlines is not about frills, but basic human comforts. The discount fares come at the price of personal space, hygiene, breathable air and stress-free boarding and deplaning.
To offer these low fares, most airlines have reconfigured coach class so tightly it makes me wonder whether they consulted behavioral specialists to determine the exact number of centimeters of elbow room human beings will tolerate before breaking out in fist fights with strangers. The air circulation in cabins is often turned down to the minimum level to save fuel -- increasing the possibility of respiratory distress, and transmission of colds and flu. Food, never a strong point, has deteriorated, or shrunk to child-sized portions, or even, on shorter flights, disappeared altogether.
And the same advances in computer technology that have allowed the airlines to offer more last-minute discounts to customers have also enabled them to maximize passenger loads. As recently as a year ago, I could count on being able to snag a seat next to an empty seat at least half of the time. But in the last nine months or so, the empty seats have vanished.
As a result, flying economy class for longer than about three hours at a stretch has become a physical, even emotional, challenge. Because I'm flying economy class so often, I prepare for flying as diligently as I would a race or a rigorous hike. What follows are some of the strategies I've developed to improve my chances of survival in the bean-counting skies.
 
PREPARING FOR FLYING
I've always practiced yoga, but since I started to write the Frugal Traveler column, I've become a fanatic, attending classes three or four times a week when I'm home. There's no better way to cope with waiting in a crowded airline terminal, or shutting out the loud, unpleasant conversation of nearby travelers.
Another way I try to build up my stamina for long trips is with a light program of aerobic exercise, especially the day before I fly. I drink lots of water the day before a flight, and take my personal regimen of B-vitamins and Indian ayurvedic and Chinese herbs to toughen my immune system for those stifling, germ-laden cabins.
When I book my reservation, I also try to make my seat selection. It always feels like a bit of a crapshoot. Ideally, I want to get a seat next to an empty one, or one with a bit more legroom. I used to ask for window seats and bulkheads. But bulkheads nowadays are mainly given over to passengers with children, and window seats are claustrophobic when flights are completely full, which they are more often than not.
And so I usually ask for an aisle seat, in the center rows, which offer a better chance of having an empty seat in the middle than do side rows, and allow me to get up and walk.
 
WHAT TO TAKE
I chuckle when I read in fashion magazines about the various travel kits preferred by supermodels who fly around the world. They're usually the size of a picnic basket and contain "essential" items like blusher that doubles as eye shadow, and five different kinds of moisturizer.
My kit is the size of a pencil case, and contains two pairs of foam earplugs, toothbrush and paste, a nail clipper a sample-size vial of moisturizing eye drops from my doctor that help prevent red eye, and a pillbox with two Sudafed and two Advil tablets, and one five-milligram Valium. The Sudafeds are in case I'm forced to travel with a cold -- to prevent eardrums from painfully stretching on landing. The Advil is for headaches, and the Valium, broken in half, is what puts me to sleep on those 18-hour Asia flights.
After much experimentation with herbal jet-lag remedies, I've found the retro solution of the tranquilizer works best for me. And, yes, I pack a facial moisturizer -- but only one!
Besides my kit, on flights five hours or longer I drag along an inexpensive lightweight Indian shawl (not a Pashmina), an inflatable collapsible neck pillow, and two liter bottles of spring water.
And, if I have time, I pack a lunch -- a really nice one.
 
THE BAGGAGE DILEMMA
For years, I stuffed all my belongings into one carry-on duffel bag, believing the adage that Real Travelers Don't Check Baggage. But in the last year, I've come to believe that that maxim is outdated -- and not because airlines have cracked down on carry-ons.
The problem isn't the airlines, but that ubiquitous air travelers' accessory, the carry-on wheelie suitcase. Personally, I hate them -- they're bulky, make inefficient use of weight and space, and only make sense in airports and cities with paved sidewalks. But everyone else uses these wheeled albatrosses, which make boarding and deplaning an obstacle course fraught with peril.
To secure overhead compartment space, you've got to get on the plane early, which is why there's always an unpleasant stampede at the gates. When the flight arrives, a reverse scramble begins as passengers try to heave their trolleys out without inflicting concussions on each other. I stopped taking my bags on planes when I noticed that the process of unloading a gazillion wheeled suitcases from the overheads took so long that by the time I emerged, the checked bags were already rolling around the carousel.
So far, I've had no problems, and I enjoy being able to walk the ever-increasing distance from security checkpoint to departure gate relatively unencumbered. According to the Federal Department of Transportation's consumer air Web site (www.dot.gov/airconsumer), a fascinating array of statistics on United States airlines that's updated every month (it will tell you, for instance, what percentage of flights left a particular airport on time), baggage complaints among the major carriers are relatively low, on average about 4 per 1,000 bags.
I think those are pretty good odds -- between them and the tiny, colored Brazilian good-luck ribbons that I tie on my luggage to insure positive baggage juju, I'll continue to check my bags. At least until the airlines ban the wheelies.
 
IN-FLIGHT SURVIVAL
It's a jungle up there in economy class, and while I strive to maintain the civility nurtured by many years of flying in the good old days, I've also learned that the skies belong to the quick, the pushy and the vocal. I don't wait for the flight attendant to get me an extra pillow (I always use two, one for back support, one for my head) -- I look for the bin with the extras, and help myself.
If my seat turns out to be next to a passenger with an oversized child in his lap, or my seat is broken in some way, I'll find the head flight attendant and complain, and I've even resorted to standing immobile in the aisle to get attention.
I get up and walk as much as I can, particularly on longer flights. If there's a refueling stop with an option to get off the plane, even for just a half-hour, I take it. Not only does this let me breathe real air but it has also provided me with some unforgettable travel experiences, like being handed a frangipani blossom at 4 a.m. in the Tahiti airport, and shopping for lipstick in the Hong Kong airport after 18 hours with no sleep.
I strive to detach myself from the unpleasant surroundings and elevator-like crowding (earplugs and meditation really help) and concentrate instead on the small pleasures and unexpected surprises that in spite of the bottom line, airline companies (mostly foreign ones) still offer. Like the little terry cloth socks handed out by Japan Airlines (one of my favorite carriers) and Air New Zealand, the amazing Arabic music channels offered on Gulf Air (which also has some of the roomier coach seats around, and terrific food), or the vintage 1930's Malay films shown on Malaysia Airlines.
I adore the new, sharply tailored, red and yellow uniforms of the Cathay Pacific flight attendants, and I was impressed by the hip in-flight entertainment offered by Varig coming back from Brazil: a full-length concert film of Caetano Veloso.
But my favorite indulgence, perhaps the last vestige of the elegant early days of commercial air travel, is offered by Thai Airways to every female passenger as she exits the plane: a fresh orchid corsage.
With fresh flowers, fuzzy socks, good music and an empty aisle in which to practice my yoga stretches, I just may make it through another 100,000 economy-class miles.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: It's not a bed of nails, but the coach cabin can test one's composure. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Stowing the ubiquitous wheelie, a ritual that slows boarding and debarking. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EGYPT (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EGYPT (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (90%); YOGA (90%); TICKET SALES (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); POISONINGS (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MCLANE, DAISANN

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



596 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Getting There: A Reality Check

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD; MATTHEW L. WALD reports on aviation for The Times.

 BODY:
AMERICAN AIRLINES runs 699 restaurants, and each has dozens of seats with a really superb view, but in all of them, the food is lousy. United boasts that it has removed a row of seats to make coach passengers more comfortable, but its interior decorating is mediocre at best. Continental shows lots of movies, but the selection (not to mention the sound and the picture quality) is much better at the local cineplex.
How good are the airlines? It depends what you grade them on. Passengers might be forgiven for being confused on this point; after all, they expect to get more than just transportation. An airline customer is different from the customers of most other kinds of companies, being dependent for everything, from a place to sit to pretzels to eat, even air to breathe. Most airlines do not distinguish themselves in any of these categories. 
 But as transportation companies, they have a good product that is selling well. The industry will record more than 600 million domestic passenger "enplanements" this year, a statistic that counts a single passenger walking onto a plane, whether that is the entire trip or one leg. That number has risen sharply in the last few years, far faster than economic growth or population growth, and will grow further in years to come, as plane trips become more common than ship voyages or intercity train rides ever were, and almost as ordinary as long drives in the car. They move their customers at hundreds of miles an hour, day and night, winter and summer, sometimes late but almost always very safely.
And as the system grows, size helps. Collectively, the scheduled carriers move nearly two million people a day in the United States, on about 20,000 flights. As the system gets bigger, each flight is more valuable to the public as a whole, because more people can connect to it.
Still, the perception is that since the federal government deregulated the industry, in 1978, service has declined. Alfred E. Kahn, a professor emeritus of political economy at Cornell University, who was instrumental in deregulation as the last chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board before its demise, says he has heard the argument over and over. It was repeated quite eloquently, he said, in a letter from a business executive who was an acquaintance, complaining about "an unshaven and unwashed hippie" sitting next to him on a recent flight. The executive, Mr. Kahn said, preferred the old days, when he sat next to an empty seat.
Mr. Kahn said he answered the letter like this: "Before responding, I'm waiting to hear from the hippie."
"The market is shifting out there," Mr. Kahn said in a telephone interview. Often the first complaint people had in the years following deregulation, he said, was that the planes were more crowded, often with people who formerly did not fly. But that, he said, was "in a genuine sense, a counterpart of the cheap fares we wanted people to have."
In fact, in the decade before deregulation, planes on average flew just over half full. In the 1990's they broke into the 70 percent range and some are now above 80 percent full.
And that is certain to annoy passengers.
"The airline industry is a victim of its own success," said Clifford Winston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who specializes in airlines and other transportation issues. With more traffic, he said, "there is general tension in coach, people fighting for luggage space, and even if the space is there, you've got to climb over someone, and somebody's stuff is there, and you're in the middle row."
The good and bad news is that fares are down, he said: "With lower fares, you find people who couldn't do it before are now on the plane." Those who flew when fares were regulated, and higher, remember when planes were empty and airlines competed with amenities like better meals.
Mr. Winston, in fact, argues that the level of complaints to the government about airline service would be declining, but for the increasing crowding on planes.
There are other reasons, of course. In fact, the airlines are the companies everybody loves to hate. They charge prices many people find reasonable -- unless the traveler has a specific date and time in mind in the near future. When the airline knows the customer has little or no scheduling flexibility, it is merciless, and with sophisticated computer programs, the airlines always seem to know where demand will appear and they can ration supply, to achieve high prices.
Another airline innovation, frequent flier miles, also bothers some people. The miles may be the rubles of the American economy -- a currency that is easier to earn than to spend on anything worthwhile, since free seats are seldom available on popular routes at popular times -- but the strategy has helped make the airline industry a success, so other businesses, like hotel and rental car companies, have followed.
Probably at the top of every traveler's list is safety, a field in which the airlines excel. The Surface Transportation Policy Project, a nonprofit group in Washington that lobbies for help for mass transportation, calculated recently that the fatality rate per billion miles traveled by air carriers was 0.2. Car travel was more than 50 times more dangerous, with 10.5 deaths per billion miles traveled. That means that if you drive 10 miles to take a 300-mile flight, your chance of death is higher in the car than on the plane.
In fact, air travel is safer than every other mode but one, public city buses, which recorded deaths of 0.1 per billion miles traveled. By comparison, Amtrak was 0.5. Walking was somewhere between 147 to 316.
Those statistics give context to occasional catastrophes, like the Alaska Airlines crash off Los Angeles in January, or reports of aircraft parts that may not meet the required specifications.
The airlines are so safe, that you are arguably safer in the air than on the ground. In some years, the biggest cause of death on planes is heart attacks. There are about 60 such deaths a year, but that number will probably fall as the airlines install defibrillators on board. For people at risk of heart attacks, that may make a plane a safer place to sit than their own living rooms.
They are likely to get safer yet, although not through any public policy. The airlines are heavily regulated, but what drives them hardest in directions that are good for passengers -- in everything from flight safety to defibrillators -- is self-interest, not government regulation.
Take the defibrillators, for example. On May 20, President Clinton used his Saturday radio address to announce that the Federal Aviation Administration would propose making the defibrillators mandatory on all planes that carry at least one flight attendant. But most major airlines already have them on most of their planes. A defibrillator pays for itself quickly, they have determined, by reducing the number of times a plane must land for a medical emergency.
In the safety area, the F.A.A. proposes dozens of times a year to require inspection or replacement of a part that has been found to be causing trouble on some airplane somewhere. By the time those orders reach major airlines, they have generally already begun the inspections or replacements, and have often completed them, simply because acting fast reduces the possibility of disrupted operations.
That does not make them timely, of course. Only about three-quarters of planes arrive within 15 minutes of the scheduled time, and in bad months, about one flight in 40 is canceled altogether. There are a variety of reasons, but chief among them is congestion in the sky. Not much of that can be blamed on the airlines. Part of the problem is on the federal level; even the F.A.A. acknowledges that its air traffic control system is antiquated and inadequate. Part is local; in the last 20 years, only one major new airport has opened in the United States, Denver International.
David R. Hinson, a former administrator of the F.A.A., has been traveling the country lately arguing that every major airport should be trying to triple its runway capacity, because it takes so long to double the capacity, even more will be desperately needed by the time that work is done.
The airlines, in fact, don't like delays any more than passengers do. Their crews fear gridlock, too. A story among pilots, with a ring to it that is apocryphal but telling, deals with an airline nightmare called "the death spiral." A pilot brings his plane in very late, taxis to the gate and finds it occupied by another plane. The other plane is ready to push back, but can't because it is waiting for its crew. And who, asks the pilot waiting on the apron, is supposed to be on the plane at the gate? "Well," says the dispatcher, "you are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Curbside check-in at La Guardia.; Computer work stations at O'Hare.; Catching a flight at Baltimore-Washington. The number of travelers on domestic airlines rose 40 percent in the 1990's. (Photographs, all for The New York Times, by Philip Greenberg La Guardia , Steve Kagan O'Hare and Marty Katz Baltimore-Washington ); Part of the ever-growing passenger load. (Philip Greenberg for the New York Times)(pg. 12); Inside the air traffic control tower at La Guardia Airport. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TRAINS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTERIOR DECORATING (57%); 

PERSON: KAHN, ALFRED E ALFRED E KAHN (72%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



597 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 13; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2393 words

HEADLINE: Promises in the Sky

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; DAVID LEONHARDT is a business reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
ONE year ago this month, the nation's major airlines announced that they would make travel more pleasant by improving customer service. Fearing that Congress was about to pass a bill of rights for passengers in response to the increasing chorus of consumer complaints, airline executives pre-empted the government's plans by coming up with their own list of a dozen promises. They vowed to give travelers information about low fares and flight delays. They said they would make a "reasonable effort" to feed people who were waiting on runways for hours at a time. They promised to explain frequent-flier rules clearly.
"Our customers have just about had it," Leo F. Mullin, the chief executive of Delta Air Lines, said in a speech last year to the Wings Club, an aviation group in New York. It was time, he said, to "restore public confidence." 
 Here is what has happened since then:
Consumer complaints to the Department of Transportation have almost doubled. Virtually every independent measure of customer satisfaction has declined. Lines at airports seem longer, and many travelers say the airlines are not living up to at least some promises.
Welcome, travelers, to the year of restored public confidence. We hope you have enjoyed the trip.
The unfortunate truth is that flying on an airplane today, while the safest way to travel long distances, is as unpleasant for many passengers as it has ever been. The strong economy has sent more planes into the air and kept them nearly full, but airport space, the air-traffic control system and the size of airline staffs have all failed to keep pace.
Following the set of promises, the industry has improved in a number of areas, travel experts say. Airlines respond more quickly to complaints and seem to keep passengers better informed about delays. But the promises have not caused enough improvement to make up for the problems that remain. And because many travelers can cite at least one instance in which the airlines have not followed their own new rules, the industry has managed to raise expectations above the level of service they are providing.
The inspector general of the Department of Transportation, Kenneth M. Mead, is now studying how well the airlines are living up to their promises. As this section went to press early last week, the Senate was awaiting an interim report. The final version is scheduled for December.
Already, however, this much is clear: the airlines vowed to improve service, and few travelers think they have. "People who travel frequently think it's pretty tough out there," said Rustin I. Carpenter, vice president and general manager in Boston at American Express Consulting Services, which advises corporations on managing their travel.
In the American Customer Satisfaction Index produced by the University of Michigan Business School between January and March using telephone interviews, the airlines received lower customer satisfaction scores than any other industry. Their cumulative grade has declined since 1994, the survey's first year. It held steady this year mainly because Northwest Airlines saw its score rebound after it had been hampered by a blizzard last year and a strike in 1998. The scores of most carriers declined.
Other surveys offer similarly grim news. Since 1998, for example, the percentage of Americans who think the airlines do a good job serving their customers has fallen from 78 to 66, according to Harris Interactive, which conducted a telephone survey of 1,024 adults in April. Travelers' frustration has reached the point that on the day last month that biztravel.com announced an offer to give its customers partial or full refunds when a flight on selected airlines arrives late, its Web site received so many visits that it crashed.
A major part of the problem, industry executives and analysts agree, is an overburdened air-traffic system. The number of passengers on domestic carriers grew 40 percent from 1989 to 1999, according to the Air Transport Association, the major carriers' trade group. The traffic has increased delays, especially in the most crowded regions like the Northeast. Meanwhile, tighter security rules force people to spend more time in line as travelers in front of them show identification and answer questions about their bags' contents. "The whole airport process is much worse than it was five years ago," said Michael J. Boyd, president of the Boyd Group, an Evergreen, Colo., aviation consulting company.
Congress recently voted to increase the F.A.A.'s funding by 30 percent, which should help the agency improve air-traffic control technology and alleviate some delays. And the carriers are installing devices in airports that allow passengers who are not checking baggage to print their own boarding passes. Over all, though, few experts expect the crowds and delays to get much better soon. The airlines are unlikely to spend the millions of dollars to enlarge their staffs. And current efforts by government officials and executives to build new runways and airports face the usual resistance from nearby communities.
None of that is new, however. The promises are new, and the crux of them is a commitment to give passengers better information about everything from fares to delays to frequent-flier rewards. Airline executives say they are doing just that. "Delta has absolutely lived up to its promise," Mr. Mullin, the carrier's chief executive, said in a recent interview. The airline, for instance, now responds to consumer complaints in eight days on average, versus about a month last year, according to a spokesman for the airline, John Kennedy.
Some travelers say they see a difference as well. "I've noticed instances where they're saying things clearly and precisely that I'm surprised by and that I don't think I would have heard a couple years ago," said Mr. Carpenter, who flies at least once a week. He added, however, that "I don't think it's moved the needle substantially" from most travelers' perspective. In fact, some of the promises represented little change for the airlines. Two of the plan's 12 parts -- making provisions for passengers with special needs and treating travelers bumped from a flight fairly -- already existed in the airlines' written ticket contracts, and another four represented only a small change, according to an audit by the General Accounting Office, a government agency.
A number of other promises are vague enough to leave the carriers room for fudging. The airlines say they will strive to return lost bags within 24 hours. They also talk of providing "timely and complete information" about frequent-flier restrictions and other details, without saying whether the information will appear in the footnotes of a little-read document or more prominently in a monthly mailing, for example.
The holes in the plans have left the industry's critics and more than a few frequent fliers skeptical that the promises mean much. "Thus far it's a pretty flimsy showing -- lots of public relations and not much substance," said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who has pushed for a law that would fine the airlines for breaking their own rules. "The airlines are in denial," he said. "They refuse to acknowledge the seriousness of the problem and the breadth of the problem."
Most damaging of all, many travelers say they can readily cite a recent instance or two in which the airlines have broken one of their promises. That has aggravated the industry's credibility problem and is one reason that complaints to the Department of Transportation have increased so rapidly, travel experts say. (Another is the newfound ease with which travelers can register their complaints, via the Internet or a toll-free phone number.) "I wouldn't assume airlines are any worse than last year," said Terry Trippler, the airline expert for a travel Web site, onetravel.com, speaking of the spike in complaints. "Passengers are just more fed up."
They often have good reason. In late April, Continental Airlines' Flight 1031 was scheduled to leave Newark for Fort Lauderdale at 12:15. With storms over New Jersey, the flight was delayed. First it sat on the runway for about two hours, said William Friedman, a Fair Lawn, N.J., resident who was on the plane with five family members. Then it returned to the gate, and the passengers got off the plane and sat in the area around the gate for about an hour. After another unsuccessful boarding and more hours of sitting on the runway, the plane finally took off at 9 p.m. and arrived in Florida about 13 hours after the passengers had originally boarded.
BUT throughout the ordeal, Mr. Friedman said, Continental fed the passengers only the sandwich it had planned to serve on the flight. The uncertainty of when the plane might depart and the lines in the airport made it impossible for passengers to get food during the brief times they were waiting in the gate area, Mr. Friedman said. Recognizing this, a flight attendant asked for more food to be brought on the plane, but a ground supervisor refused, he said.
"We're not arguing they should have flown the plane in that weather," Mr. Friedman said. "But we went from 11:30 a.m. to midnight with a cheese sandwich. I just felt it was inhumane." It also seems to violate one of Continental's 12 promises, which is to make "every reasonable effort" to provide food to passengers stuck on planes for hours.
In general, the policy applies to planes that are stuck on a runway, not those that return to the gate for a time, according to David Messing, an airline spokesman.
When Mr. Friedman returned home and sent an e-mail to the airline, the response addressed only the delay, not the lack of food. "They either misunderstood the point or purposely evaded what the real issue was," he said. Continental did offer him a $25 voucher, but Mr. Friedman refused it on principle, he said.
In fact, one of travelers' biggest frustrations is the quality of information they get from airlines, in spite of the industry's promises. A Wednesday-night flight last month on American Eagle, a partner of American Airlines, from Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington to Kennedy Airport, is an example. It was scheduled to arrive at 9:45 p.m. at Gate 40. By 10 p.m., it had not landed, but airport computer screens still showed it as a 9:45 arrival. Agents at Gate 40, working with travelers who were supposed to be on another late flight, said they did not have time to find updated information for the people who had come to meet the plane. American Airlines employees at a nearby gate said they could not help either because American Eagle, and not their airline, operated the flight. Finally, the plane pulled up to the gate at 10:07 -- without the computer screen ever showing it as delayed.
A J. D. Power & Associates survey suggests such anecdotes are more than just the rare exception. The research firm asked travelers in its most recent annual study of the airlines to rate the accuracy of information given at the gate, and the survey found virtually no improvement in the category over last year. Of the airlines rated the top three in communicating with passengers -- Continental, Southwest and TWA -- only Continental did better, said Michael Taylor, J. D. Power's director of travel services.
The gate isn't the only problem area, either. The airlines continue to exaggerate the benefits of some of their travel programs by omitting key information from the documents fliers are most likely to read. Delta's misleading frequent-flier rules are typical. In the main section of its membership guide, Delta says passengers flying economy class on Aeromexico receive Delta miles. There are no asterisks next to the statement. But 20 pages later, the footnotes reveal that passengers flying in fare classes G (for groups) and L (which are specially negotiated) receive no miles. "How does the ordinary person know what that is?" asks Milton Klein, a retired history professor at the University of Tennessee. He was surprised to return from a vacation and not be credited for part of the trip. "Apparently, truth in advertising does not apply."
A similar problem crops up on the mileage statement Delta sends each month to 27 million passengers. It neglects to mention that one of the most popular awards -- a trip to Europe -- cannot be used during the summer on the very days most people would want to use it: Fridays, Saturdays or Sundays. Asked about the problems, Kevin F. Pinto, system manager of SkyMiles, said the company would fix them. It is worth noting, though, that Mr. Klein's complaint led Delta to send him a copy of its rules but not to change them.
The overarching problem is that one year after making their promises, the airlines still seem to lack a basic understanding of how to treat passengers, travel consultants say. The carriers often reply to passengers' letters by restating a policy rather than responding to a specific complaint. Or they install baggage templates halfway between the ticket counter and the gate, forcing travelers whose bags are too big to retrace their steps. As Mr. Boyd, the Colorado aviation consultant, said, "Airlines still want to make passengers do business their way."
 
The 'To Do' List
 
 In June 1999, 14 major United States airlines made a dozen promises to passengers. Here are excerpts from the list issued by the Air Transport Association, the carriers' trade group.
 
Each airline will:
 
Offer the lowest fare available for which the customer is eligible.
Notify customers of known delays, cancellations and diversions.
Make every reasonable effort to return checked bags within 24 hours.
Support an increase in the baggage liability limit (to $2,500 from $1,250).
Allow reservations to be held or canceled for 24 hours.
Issue refunds for eligible tickets within 7 days for credit card purchases and 20 days for cash.
Properly accommodate disabled and special-needs passengers.
Meet customers' essential needs during long on-aircraft delays.
Handle bumped passengers with fairness and consistency.
Disclose cancellation policies, frequent flier rules and cabin configuration.
Ensure good service from code-share partners.
Be more responsive to complaints . . . All written complaints are responded to within 60 days.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plane on the Tarmac and taxis waiting to pick up passengers at La Guardia Airport.; Passengers at the Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan, P.R.; Crackdowns on carry-on luggage have meant passengers either have to check more bags or travel lighter. (Photographs, all for The New York Times, by Philip Greenberg airplane and taxis , Len Kaufman passengers and Marty Katz baggage cart )(pg. 13); Keeping passengers well-informed is a goal of the carriers. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONSUMER PROTECTION AIRLINES (93%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID LEO F MULLIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



598 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2312 words

HEADLINE: Bedding Down At 35,000 Feet

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS; PETER H. LEWIS covers technology for The Times.

 BODY:
WE are not even off the runway yet, and already a chubby businessman is shuffling along the aisle in his jammies and socks, a contented smile on his face. It is nearly 7 p.m. in New York in the thorax of a Boeing 747 headed for London, and he is headed for bed in the new British Airways flying dormitory for trans-Atlantic business travelers.
There are about 70 of us getting ready to tuck in for the night, 20 in the upstairs loft of the 747, the rest of us downstairs behind the first-class compartment. We each have a snug little pod that converts from a seat to a bed. We have been promised warm milk and cookies as we doze off in New York, and hot tea and breakfast when we wake up before arrival in London. It sounds heavenly. 
 Beginning with a single volley of flights between Kennedy Airport in New York and Heathrow near London, but expanding to all of its long-haul routes by the end of this year, British Airways is the first major airline to equip its business-class cabins with reclining chairs that convert into fully flat six-foot beds.
Although it was not first, Virgin Atlantic also went horizontal last week with flat beds in its Upper Class service, which is a hybrid of first and business classes. The service is currently offered only on selected flights between Dulles near Washington and Heathrow.
Flat beds have been part of first-class airplane travel for several years, at least on long flights across the oceans. But as airlines step up the competition to entice the lucrative business traveler, the flying bed is certain to become one of the more attractive perks -- at a price that could cause most leisure travelers to lose sleep.
My bed, for example, costs $2,986.40 for the night. Even so, I'm guaranteed not to get eight hours of sleep, because the flight from New York to London lasts only seven.
Forget counting sheep; I'm too busy counting dollars.
With very little planning, for example, an economy-class ticket on this same plane costs $564.40, one way. (With a lot of planning, a round-trip fare of just $352 can be found.) Subtracting the element of travel, then, I'm spending nearly $2,500 extra for the possibility of a restful sleep in what British Airways describes as a "lounge in the sky."
Or, more to the point, my employer is spending the money. Airlines long ago recognized that business travelers rarely spend their own money. As a result, the cost of the ticket is often less important than the cushier amenities like food, wine, entertainment and, now, beds.
By some lofty standards, my British Airways business-class sleeper seat may actually be a bargain. Sometime in the next couple of years, according to Sir Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Atlantic, Virgin will "bring the romance back to flying" by offering private cabins with double beds and showers on some of its trans-Atlantic crossings. No pricing has been determined, but one can expect fares to be mile-high.
The beds in first class on this British Airways flight, just a few steps in front of me, go for $4,895.40 (what's with the 40 cents?) one way. The extra $1,909 over business class entitles the elite flier to a cotton sleeper suit, more attentive service, fancier food and wine, more privacy, more space and a bed that is six inches longer than mine.
It is possible, of course, to sleep in a coach-class seat, just as it is possible to sleep behind the wheel of a car or on a bench in a bus station. The most relaxing thing about sleeping in coach is that you are not wasting your entire vacation budget on what is likely to be a few hours of slumber.
But just for the sake of argument, let us attempt the justification that business travelers use: A flying bed allows us to arrive in London well rested at 7 a.m., ready for a day of important meetings. Sleep, after all, is the best defense against jet lag.
British Airways boasts that it enlisted the aid of National Aeronautics and Space Administration scientists in the effort to improve the sleep of its most valued travelers. Among the findings was that people achieve deep, dream-filled sleep only when they are fully reclined 180 degrees -- flat, that is. On a typical business-class seat, in contrast, the maximum angle of repose is about 130 degrees.
The NASA influence is evident from the moment I wedge myself into my cloth-upholstered seat, 18J of business class, on Flight 174. Although not as claustrophobic as the Mercury space capsule mockup I once entered, it clearly reflects the fact that on an airliner, even one as large as a Boeing 747, every inch is precious.
Veteran business travelers know this, and as a result they know about such things as seat pitch. Pitch, defined as the distance between a spot on a seat to the same spot on the seat in front, is 73 inches on these sleeper seats -- at least a foot more, British Airways says, than the pitch of its major competitors' business-class seats and nearly two feet greater than average for all business class.
To fit the maximum number of beds into business class with the minimum loss of privacy, British Airways has arranged the pods in a most peculiar way. There are eight pods in each row, two by the port windows, four in the middle, and two by the starboard windows. All aisle seats face forward. The rest -- the seats closest to the windows, and the center two rows -- face backward. The pods are staggered slightly so that the feet of one passenger are not directly in the adjoining passenger's face. It is the original S-type love-seat configuration, so that when the seats are in their upright position, passengers in adjoining seats are almost thigh to thigh in opposite directions. The two center pods are the only ones in the traditional side-by-side alignment, except that they both face backward.
It is in this love-seat fashion that I meet the gentleman in 18G, facing backward, who greets me by offering any kind of software I want for my laptop computer, free, if I will change seats to enable him to travel with his business partner. "Anything," he says. "Microsoft Office, anything by Adobe, you name it, I've got it." And to prove it, he opens a suitcase crammed full of shiny CD-ROMs.
Declining his offer of bootleg software, I agree to change to an aisle seat opposite.
It is then that the happy-looking businessman pads down the aisle in his jammies. We are not even aloft, and he has already changed into his nightclothes, no small feat given his generous girth. While the seats have been expanded, the lavatories are still about the size of a phone booth.
I DID not think to pack pajamas. People in first class get sleeper suits and a duvet and cover, a flight attendant named Omros tells me, but in business class we get a pair of cotton slipper socks, a sleep mask and a faux cashmere blanket, along with a toiletry kit that includes a toothbrush and toothpaste, a razor and assorted lotions.
I ask Omros if people in first class snore, but this is British Airways, of course, and he is too discreet to answer. Later, another flight attendant confides that snoring is indeed a problem throughout the plane.
Before going to sleep, I examine my pod. It reminds me of an armchair, with a hard plastic cocoon around my shoulders and waist. Around me, I notice that there is no place to put my junk. There is precious little storage space within easy reach, although there is ample storage overhead (business class allows two carry-ons). A small compartment under my knees can hold business papers, but it is hardly deep enough to hold a teddy bear. A reading light on a flexible stalk snakes out from over my left shoulder. There is a "cocktail table," a fold-down tray just large enough to hold the glass of milk and cookie. Beneath that, a power plug for a laptop computer (but it requires an adapter, which fortunately I had bought in advance).
A larger tray, for a meal or a laptop computer, is embedded in the right arm of the cocoon. Everyone seems to have trouble extracting the tray. I break a fingernail.
Under my left elbow is a telephone that doubles as a video game controller. Games are displayed, along with flight information and a selection of movies and television shows, on a small, 8.4-inch video screen that swings out on a swivel arm from the back of my neighbor's cocoon, just to my left. There are 18 channels, including one that shows the plane's current position on a map, and the startling news that it is 70 degrees below zero outside. Built into the cocoon are a pair of Sally Rand-style plastic fans that, when fully raised, afford about as much privacy as Miss Rand's fans did many years ago. That is to say, it is more perceived than real.
It is a snug affair. I am not a large man -- a little over 70 inches tall -- yet I fill every available inch of my bed and then some. I notice that several passengers who appear to be much taller are sleeping reclined but not supine, including a tall, elegant woman facing me from a center seat. Tall people just won't fit on the bed without bending somewhere.
Length is not the only problem. The seats are narrow, and the only way my arms will fit inside the hard cocoon is to jam them against my sides.
I look back at the plump businessman in his pajamas, and he, like many others around me, is sleeping on his side, perhaps because he and they cannot fit otherwise.
I choose to stay on my back, with my arms folded over my chest, but that makes it impossible to banish thoughts of mummies and coffins -- except that I imagine few people would be climbing over my coffin. And that is the major design flaw of the flying dormitory.
The beds are 72 inches long. The seat pitch is 73 inches. So, passengers are literally sleeping head to toe. Because there is only one inch between rows, people who are not on the aisle -- that is, half of business-class passengers -- are trapped in their seats when their neighbors travel to dreamland. The only way to get out to the lavatory is to climb awkwardly over the passenger sleeping on the aisle, or to wake the person and ask him or her to drop the footstool that acts as the bottom foot of the bed. In first class, every sleeper seat is on an aisle, which avoids this problem. (Toward the bulkhead I watch one woman in a skirt manage to hurdle the aisle bed several times in the night with perfect composure.)
Bill Blacker, a businessman from New York City, notes from across the aisle that, conversely, it is equally difficult for the flight crew to serve the inside rows without reaching over the sleeper. He later says he stayed in the fully upright position for the whole trip.
Adam Schwam, a businessman from Westbury, N.Y., who has a window seat, says he slept for most of the flight, but he complains about the hard headrest, the lack of air-conditioning controls, and the cloth seats. He says he prefers the leather seats of American's business class, and knocks the love-seat arrangement. "I feel like I'm on one of those old Coney Island rides," he says.
Still, he says, the beds will probably entice more customers to fly business class.
Mr. Blacker, one seat over, has an epiphany. "I know what it feels like," he says after his night aloft. "It feels like a dentist's chair." Others, pointing out the little metal trays and swivel arms, agree.
In the end, I do manage to snooze an hour or two and awake not feeling the need to visit a chiropractor. At Heathrow, as part of the renovations that include the business-class sleeper seats, British Airways has also spent millions expanding the business-class arrivals lounge, with showers, a workout room and a free breakfast.
But alas, my luggage fails to make it onto the plane in New York. I'm told it will catch up to me when the Concorde arrives that evening. (It actually arrives later that morning.) This gives me time to kill, since the check-in time for most hotels in London is 2 p.m.
Chatting with some of my dormitory comrades in the arrivals lounge, it appears that the bed service is, overall, a popular success. But one experienced trans-Atlantic traveler tells me that he books a London hotel room for the night before, paying a couple of hundred dollars extra to have a room ready for his early morning arrival.
I do the math in preparation for the next time I cross the ocean, spending my own dollars. Budget an extra day, fly economy, endure the relative discomfort of coach for a few hours, forgo a bit of pampering in the air, and save a couple of thousand dollars. Then, pay a few hundred dollars to guarantee a real bed and a few hours of sleep on arrival, and take myself out for a good meal.
With the money I save I could even buy a nightshirt at Harrod's.
 
Jets and jammies
Beginning with Air France in 1995, many of the world's international carriers have added first-class seats that convert into fully flat beds. Following are some offerings. All fares are one way; round-trip fares are double.
 
Japan Air Lines
Sky Sleeper Solo
Bed length: 73 inches. Amenities include a down comforter, pillow and robe.
First-class fare: New York (Kennedy) to Tokyo (Narita), $5,494 (Monday to Thursday) and $5,769 (Friday, Saturday, Sunday).
 
Virgin Atlantic
Upper Class. Beds are currently only on some flights between Washington (Dulles) and London (Heathrow).
Bed length: 80 inches. Amenities include a fleece blanket, cotton jersey sleep suit, full-size pillow and beauty salon.
Upper Class fare: Washington to London, $3,339.
 
Singapore Airlines
SkySuites
Bed length: 76 inches. Amenities include an inflatable mattress, Givenchy sheets, down duvet, turndown service.
First-class fare: Newark to Amsterdam, $3,027.95.
 
Air France
L'Espace 180
Bed length: 77 inches. Amenities include down quilt, down pillow, Faconnable sleep suit.
First-class fare: New York (Kennedy) to Paris (Charles de Gaulle), $4,545.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: First-class sleeper seats on British Airways: more legroom (six inches more) for an additional $1,909. (British Airways)(pg. 9); British Airways' business-class sleeping pod, where for $2,986.40 one can stretch out for the night.; The old days: a berth on American's Condor (1934). (British Airways); (The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (84%); BOEING CO (58%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIR FARES (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



599 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 15; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-25-00: Questions for Jeff Koons;
Puppy Love

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon 

 BODY:
Q: So many art stars of the 80's disappeared, but your stock seems to be rising. Who expected to see your giant puppy covered with 60,000 flowers in midtown?
I'm very pleased to see "Puppy" at Rockefeller Center. It really feels like the center of the universe. You have NBC located there, so every day during the "Today" show, "Puppy" is on television. People in Oklahoma or California can see it in bloom. 
 What kind of dog is it?
A West Highland terrier. If I had done a poodle, it would have seemed very feminine. And if I had done a Doberman or a sheep dog, it would have come off as masculine. But a West Highland terrier seems neutral that way, which is good, because I don't want anyone in the audience to feel alienated. It's a very spiritual piece.
Since when did you start sounding like a choirboy? About a decade ago you were married to the Italian porn star Cicciolina and making paintings and sculptures that showed you copulating in every which position.
At that time, I wanted to make a body of work that was romantic in the tradition of Boucher and Fragonard. I don't think I would show those pieces today.
I'm not surprised. For a while, your divorce and custody battle got more attention than your artwork. Is all that settled?
My son and I received tremendous injustice from the Italian government. It's not in the interests of my son that he's in the custody of his mother. For the past six years I've gone to Italy every month to visit my son. I hope "Puppy" is a symbol of the rights of children. The rights of children are neglected.
That's quite a switch for an artist who began his career making consumerist fetish objects like floating basketballs and stainless-steel bunnies. Are you trying to distance yourself from the 80's?
As time goes on, the 80's artists will gain more support. I enjoy Julian Schnabel and David Salle. Andy did great work, too. But visually, I'm more stimulated by advertising than by the art I see in galleries. I like a lot of ice cream advertising. I like a lot of cereal-box advertising.
Are you saying that a box of Frosted Flakes is more compelling than any of the art in the Manhattan galleries?
Yes. Visually, it's just more exciting.
What's your idea of a great cereal box?
I've always enjoyed Cheerios. But all the breakfast-cereal boxes are exciting. The reason is they're trying to pump energy into people in the morning, make people feel good about the day.
Are you really this corny, or is it just a kind of Warholish pose?
I mean it. It's not a mask. So much art is very, very gloomy now. Cereal boxes are just the opposite. Art is obsolete now. New technologies are taking over.
You don't really believe that art is obsolete.
I do. There was a time when Picasso was the wealthiest man in France and Henry Moore was the wealthiest person in England, other than the Queen. There's no such thing as that anymore. Bill Gates and your technology leaders are the ones with money. Artists today -- they're nothing within the landscape of economics.
How, then, have your interests changed?
I think my interests have remained the same. I'm interested in making objects that you would want to grab and take with you if your house was burning down.
You're kidding. Why would I want to grab a 42-foot-tall puppy covered with begonias if my house was on fire?
"Puppy" is a shelter. It's built out of stainless steel. It's like the fuselage of an airplane. You could live inside it.
If it had closets. Didn't you begin your career as a commodities broker who made millions of dollars a year?
I started selling commodities in order to support my art. But all
I ever thought about was art. When I was at Smith Barney, instead of working I'd be speaking with Richard P. Feynman, the Nobel Prize physicist, asking how I could get the basketball to float in the water.
I'm glad to hear you're so involved with your art. You've often said that you let your assistants make your art for you.
I'm looking forward to the day when the flowers on "Puppy" can
be planted without my involvement.
Do you have a dog yourself?
I have a bichon frise. They're nonallergenic. They don't shed. -- Deborah Solomon
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jill Peters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (87%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ADVERTISING DOGS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (84%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); FAMILY LAW (70%); YOUTH MARKET (67%); CHILD WELFARE (67%); CHILD ABUSE (62%); 

PERSON: SOLOMON, DEBORAH; KOONS, JEFF JEFF KOONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



600 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-25-00: Economics of Phone Bills;
Please Deposit 72.4 Cents

BYLINE: By Stephen Labaton 

 BODY:
When William E. Kennard can't explain to his wife the complexities of their phone bill, it's time for the telephone companies to make their bills simpler. Kennard is the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. And that's why he was the one to announce recently that the government and the nation's leading telecoms have agreed both to simplify their bills by clarifying hidden subsidies and to pass on to consumers the savings from reduced access charges that long-distance companies pay to the regional bells.
One reason phone bills have been -- and despite all intentions, are likely to remain -- dauntingly complex is because telephone companies have in effect become great tax collectors, raising money for everything from the Metropolitan Transit Authority in New York to Internet service in inner-city schools. Other complicating factors include the variety of cross-payments between companies for access to equipment and facilities as well as for subsidies to finance service for the disadvantaged and others. Finally, the phone companies operate in a system that encourages them to keep two different sets of books: "For Wall Street, the phone companies want to show they're lean and mean," said Brian Moir, counsel for the International Communications Association, a coalition of businesses that are heavy telephone customers. "For the F.C.C., they want to show they're bleeding on the streets." 
 The government estimates that the typical consumer spends about $69 a month on residential phone charges. Last year Bell Atlantic's New York subsidiary earned revenues of $8.3 billion from both New York customers and other sources, including payments from long-distance companies using Bell Atlantic's telephone lines, advertising revenue from Bell Atlantic's Yellow Pages and payments from the Universal Service Fund to help low-income customers and provide service in areas where telephones are not generally available. The chart at right shows what New Yorkers will be paying to Bell Atlantic (currently in the process of merging with GTE and becoming Verizon Communications) every month starting July 1 and what Bell Atlantic, according to government reports, does with all the money it gets.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (David Lawrence)
 
Chart: "IN ONE EARPIECE"

* $7.53 Package of specialized services (call waiting and three-way calling). Individually, caller ID costs $7.99, voice mail $6.23..
 
* $6.60 Dial-tone rate. The charge for basic local service. For every minute of calls outside of the immediate community but still in downstate New York, additional charges depend on the distance of the call.
 
* $4.35 Subscriber line charge. Covers the cost of telephone lines (charge includes the old presubscribed interexchange-carrier charge that a long-distance company pays the local company for borrowing its line to complete a call).
 
* $2.10 Optional monthly maintenance charge to cover the costs of Bell Atlantic repairmen's visits to your home.
 
* 35 cents Universal Service Fund. Supports a nonprofit company under the federal government's supervision that underwrites telephone service to Americans with low incomes, to consumers who live in areas where the costs of providing phone service are high and to schools, libraries and rural health-care providers. The federally mandated charge is eventually returned to Bell Atlantic and other telephone companies that provide universal service.
 
* 35 cents Enhanced 911. The telephone company collects this money for the city or county to pay the cost of 911 emergency service.
 
* 23 cents Portability charge. Pays the expenses that arise when a customer switches phone carriers but keeps the same phone number. The charge is mandatory even if no switch is ever made, the theory being that it encourages consumers to shop for the most competitive provider.
 
* 45 cents Directory assistance costs. (95 cents for national directory assistance.)
 
* 10 cents or less Bell Atlantic's long-distance cost, per minute.
 
* 8.25 percent of total bill, excluding taxes New York state (4 percent) and local (4 percent) taxes, plus a 0.25 percent Metropolitan Transit Authority surcharge to support railroads, subways, ferries and buses in the New York area.
 
* 3.8 percent of bill, excluding taxes Gross receipts tax surcharge.
 
* 3 percent of bill, excluding taxes Federal excise tax.
 
* 2.2 percent of bill, excluding taxes New York City Municipal surcharge.
 
"OUT THE OTHER EARPIECE"
 
* 22 cents of every dollar Salaries and wages for the company's 36,223 employees.
 
* 20 cents Depreciation and amortization: plants, equipment and other assets.
 
* 12 cents Profit.
 
* 11 cents Employee benefits like health insurance and pensions.
 
* 8 cents Installation and maintenance of phone lines from laying cables to repairing routers to fixing flat tires on company trucks.
 
* 8 cents Corporate operations: such items as legal, accounting, executive planning, external relations, human resources, procurement and research and development.
 
* 7 cents Network engineering, including designing and testing systems and the electricity bill.
 
* 6 cents Customer operations and marketing.
 
* 6 cents Federal, state and local taxes and miscellaneous items, including lobbying government officials.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC CORP VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELL ATLANTIC CORP FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000

 
