

1 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: 10 Years Later, Italy Assesses Change In How Its Fabled Museums Are Run 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SYLVERS

DATELINE: MILAN 

 BODY:
Ten years ago, getting into a government-run museum after 1 p.m. to see a Raphael in Milan, a Titian in Venice, a Michelangelo in Florence or a Caravaggio in Rome was tantamount to finding a post office open at that hour. Close to impossible.
 With little interest in making art more accessible to the masses and even less interest in the bottom line, the Italian museum system failed to innovate as its counterparts in the United States and Europe had done years before. Museum shops, if they existed, were dingy and sold low-quality postcards and academic books that were inaccessible to most museumgoers. Guides in English -- to say nothing of French, German and Spanish -- were nonexistent, as were eating establishments. 
 In 1993, when it came time to discussing how museums could become more self-sustaining, someone suggested the unthinkable: perhaps the museums should be run less like post offices and maybe, just maybe, private businesses could be brought into help. A decade later the experiment has, by most accounts, been a success. But supporters say there is still work to be done, and critics sound dire warnings that mixing economics with art may spell the end of Italy's cultural heritage.
Italy's more than 400 state-run museums still lose money, as do the vast majority of museums in the world, but last year the government made 11.6 million euros -- about $12 million -- through concessions sold to private companies to run shops, restaurants, ticketing, guided tours and more.
"When I got here the idea was that money is dirty, art is sacred and the two things should not be mixed," said Danny Berger, who after almost four decades at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art joined the Cultural Ministry 10 years ago to help write the Italian law that allows private companies to run some parts of the museums. "It took a while, but that attitude has changed."
While the United States has been the trendsetter in privately financing art institutions, in most cases just 10 percent of museum budgets are covered by revenue from stores and entrance fees, according to Salvatore Settis, who worked for six years at the J. Paul Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles and wrote a book assessing Italy's plans to change the way the country's cultural patrimony is managed.
Mr. Berger, who has worked through eight Italian governments and six cultural ministers, said: "Some people think you can make money with culture, but that's just not true, the numbers just aren't there. What you can do is make money towards supporting culture."
And that is the idea behind selling concessions to private companies, which pay a fee to run part of a museum and then take home the profit they generate. 
The amount made by the government on the concessions has climbed every year, reaching 11.6 million euros in 2002. A national lottery inaugurated in 1997 generates another 150 million euros a year that is used for restoration. The Cultural Ministry does not make public how much it spends on museums or how much the museums lose each year.
A shift that touches something as dear to the Italians as their artistic heritage could not take place without strife, especially since the flip side of making the museums more self-sustaining has been the government's decision to reduce funding.
"There is a perception that you can cut the government funding, privatize the museums and then as if by magic they will suddenly begin making money, but that is absolutely not the case," said Mr. Settis, who is the rector at the Scuola Normale University in Pisa. "Even in the U.S., museums lose money, but they get by with little or no government funding because they live off their large endowments."
Interest from the investments made by those endowments sometimes provides as much as half of the budget for museums in the United States. 
Many American museums also support part of their operations with membership fees, a rarity in Italy.
With the changes in the museum system has come a shift in the general perception of the role art should play in the everyday life of Italy's citizens and how museums should be financed. Four years ago, Milan's Bocconi University established an undergraduate program called "Economics and Management for the Arts," to help illuminate the relationship between cultural institutions and their markets. Ten years ago, a university degree program with that title and declared mission would have been unthinkable.
Italy's 400 state-run museums are just the top of a cultural pyramid that swells to more than 4,000 once private museums and those run by regional and city governments are added. There are also more than 100,000 churches and chapels, many of them holding masterpieces.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Uffizi gallery in Florence, above, and the bookshop at the Palazzo Pitti, also in Florence, are among the sites that have felt the changes in recent years as privatization has come to Italy's museum system. (Photographs by Sandro Michahelles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); RESTAURANTS (75%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (75%); BUDGETS (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



2 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: The Old Block of Ice And a Few New Chips 

BYLINE:  By DAVID L. MARGULIUS

 BODY:
AS you read this, some of last year's coolest technology products may have already melted down. Not the iPod or TiVo or the Xbox or the BlackBerry, but holiday decorations fashioned from ice, like Santa Claus, Father Time, snowmen, angels, star bursts, castles and even party masks.
 Ice carvings and sculptures, traditionally the realm of chefs and chisel-wielding artisans, have become a high-tech production. Over the last few years many professional ice carvers have begun using computer-driven carving machines, enabling them to push the boundaries of creativity and broaden the market for their products. 
 "People think of ice carving and think of swans, hearts and dolphins," said Julian Bayley, founder of Iceculture, a carving company in Hensall, Ontario. "But ice carving is now moving to more of a functional design." 
 Mr. Bayley developed one of the first computer-driven carving machines five years ago. He said such machines had turned ice carvings, once an art form for rarefied occasions, into a common feature of mainstream corporate events, weddings, festivals and private parties. 
 At the same time, "the machines have given artists more of an extension of their talent," said Randy Finch, co-owner of Ice Sculptures Ltd., based in Grand Rapids, Mich. Mr. Finch's company has used computer-driven machines to help produce such icy creations as a full-size usable pool table, a five-foot-tall working Ferris wheel (made of 40 pieces of ice), and an ice fireplace in which the logs melt away in a simulation of burning. 
 "Technically you can do anything without the computer if you've got the time, but I don't know that I would have," said Mr. Finch, a former chef. "It's given us the drive and excitement to push the boundaries."
 In addition to speeding the carving of complex designs -- a 3 1/2-by-6 1/2-foot corporate logo might take three hours to make by hand but just four minutes on a machine -- the machines can create identical copies of individual designs, enabling companies to churn out economical centerpieces, sorbet dishes, shot glasses and even ice cubes etched with a logo. 
 Nadeau's Ice Sculptures in Forest Park Ill., uses that replication ability to perform demonstrations each night at the local zoo, assembling and finishing sculptures from prefabricated parts. The company also creates ice building toys for children called Brrrr Blocks, similar to Lincoln Logs, said the company's owner, Jim Nadeau.
 The computer-controlled machines help make ice carving safer. Mr. Bayley of Iceculture, which recently created an elaborate ice bridge for an event at Rockefeller Center, said the devices could be used to cut the ice blocks so accurately that "they go together like a piece of Lego." 
 "We tongue-and-groove them so they lock into position," he said, noting that an individual block can weigh up to 350 pounds. 
 The machines, known as CNC routers for computer numerical control, were originally developed for milling by the signmaking industry but are modified by entrepreneurs like Mr. Bayley, who added tools for cutting ice as well as tougher wiring to handle the cold of the carver's freezer. 
 The machines come in both a flatbed configuration for carving shallower designs like scenery etchings and corporate logos and an upright format for making larger three-dimensional cutouts that a carver can later finish by hand. Many shops also use a non-computer-driven ice lathe, controlled by mechanical templates, for carving round items like pillars, footballs and crystal balls.
 A typical set-up includes a design PC running off-the-shelf software for computer-aided design. That PC is linked by a cable or a network to another PC or controller box in the freezer workshop, which in turn is attached to the carving machine. Designs are loaded and modified on the design PC, then spooled to the carving machine for production. 
 "It's great to be able to do most of the planning outside the freezer," said Mark Donovan, vice president and director of operations for SoCal Ice Productions in San Diego. "Previously, we'd kind of cut and stack and figure it out." 
 Mr. Donovan, whose company is working on a set of eight-foot-long ice bars and accompanying Roman columns for a corporate party in January, said one challenge was finding talent, especially people who can cross over from the world of design to the world of ice. "A lot of people are afraid to touch the ice, to deal with it as a medium," he said. "You know that when the bit hits, something's going to happen."
 There are about 2,000 ice carvers in the United States, according to Alice Connelly, executive director of the National Ice Carving Association, including chefs who freelance as ice sculptors (a talent acquired in culinary school), but only about 100 pursue the art full time. Of those, she estimated that almost half have machines, which have recently dropped in price from around $60,000 to as low as $30,000 and have gotten smaller and even somewhat portable. 
 Additional equipment is required to distill water and extract impurities while freezing it with the goal of producing crystal clear, high-density blocks that will be slow to melt. (Carvings generally last six to eight hours at room temperature.)
 The cost of a piece carved by computer can range from $1.25 for an ice cube with a logo on it to tens of thousands of dollars for large one-of-a-kind displays. 
 Mr. Finch of Ice Sculptures Ltd. said he had sold the design file for his ice fireplace for about $250 to other ice carvers. But he said he was careful about whom he sells it to. "We don't want to do a really nice design and then sell it to our competition," he said. "There are a lot of smaller companies out there that are starting up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHAVED ICE -- In Boston, Steve Rose, the owner of Ice Effects, uses a chain saw to shape a sculpture depicting Atlas. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. G1); OUTLINE -- Computer-driven machines make cutouts that are finished by hand. At Nadeau's Ice Sculpures in Forest Park, Ill., left, a worker completes a sculpture. David Peterson, below, at work at Ice Effects in Rockland, Mass. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times); (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (76%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (76%); TOYS & GAMES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



3 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: New Year's Wishes, Revised 

 BODY:
Last year at this time, we offered three wishes for the new year that seemed both critically important and eminently doable. Alas, none of them came true. A few updates seem in order.
 When looking at foreign affairs in January 2003, we presciently concluded that the two biggest trouble spots -- Iraq and North Korea -- posed too large a challenge for our wish-making capacities. So we settled on offering hopes that Israel would start dismantling its settlements in the West Bank and Gaza. While that didn't happen, Ariel Sharon's government does at least seem to be facing up to the fact that hanging on to the occupied territories indefinitely would mean turning Israel into a country in which Jews were a minority, imposing their political will on a disenfranchised Palestinian majority. 
 We continue to hope that Israelis and Palestinians will return to serious negotiations toward a sustainable two-state future. But looking at other terrifying realities on the international scene, we add a second wish. This must be the year the world gets serious about nuclear weapons proliferation. 
In 2003, North Korea declared that it had begun making nuclear bombs. Iran was discovered to have a secret uranium enrichment plant. Libya acknowledged that it had been trying to start a nuclear weapons program. At year's end, some of Pakistan's top nuclear scientists were being questioned about whether they had helped other countries make crucial technological advances. The regulatory system that kept the nuclear weapons club small for decades is crumbling. The chances of seeing some city somewhere vaporized under a mushroom cloud are mounting.
The world urgently needs as universal a system of inspections and controls as possible. The loophole that allows any country to produce nuclear bomb fuel legally by claiming that it is strictly for power production must be closed and replaced by a centralized system for supplying the fuel for reactors and removing plutonium products.
Last January we also wished for an end to the global system of agricultural subsidies that allow the richest nations to shut poor farmers out of international markets. During the year, we traveled the world, talking to impoverished men and women who grow cotton in Burkina Faso, catfish in Vietnam and corn in the Philippines, and came back more convinced of the importance of this issue. The world cannot have one set of rules for trade in manufactured products and another for farm goods, the commodities that are easiest for poor nations to produce and sell. But a lack of American leadership at the World Trade Organization caused the collapse of talks that were aimed at making the system fairer.
For the new year this wish still stands, but we can narrow it. We hope that the United States will regain its credibility on issues of trade by eliminating its two most egregious protectionist practices: those relating to cotton and sugar. Consumers and taxpayers pay billions to prop up these commodities, creating an oversupply, which is dumped on international markets at prices below the cost of production. Farmers in other countries that can grow sugar and cotton more cheaply know that the game has been rigged against them. Average Americans simply have no idea how much international resentment these programs have caused.
Improving automobile fuel economy standards -- or at the very least, requiring S.U.V.'s to be as efficient as regular cars -- topped our domestic wish list in 2003. It is perhaps even more important now, when American dependence on foreign oil is such an enormous national security issue. It is madness that the government fails to push carmakers toward standards they could easily reach with off-the-shelf technology. But both Congress and the administration bristle at the mere idea.
Worse, Congress would take any attempt to even bring up fuel efficiency as an invitation to resurrect its dreadful energy bill. In 21st-century America, energy legislation has become a synonym for pork for lawmakers and corporate welfare for the oil, gas and coal industries. Even the tiniest concession on automobile standards would wind up smothered in ridiculous tax breaks and giveaways.
Rather than take another trip down that lane, we have set our sights lower. We hope that Congress acts to shore up the nation's electric power grid. A bill sponsored by Representative John Dingell of Michigan would impose operating standards on the electric power industry and help prevent the sloppy behavior that caused last August's blackout. If our legislators can't make us energy-independent, they can at least see that the lights stay on.
Our second domestic wish involves the No Child Left Behind Act, President Bush's much-publicized initiative to raise educational standards in public schools. We hope the administration will do an about-face and start forcing states to get serious about the requirement that a "highly qualified teacher" be in every classroom by 2006. The administration's desire to hold schools accountable, particularly when it comes to minority performance, is exactly the right priority. But there has always been a danger that the program will be too much about testing and too little about teaching. That's bound to be the case as long as the federal government lets states ignore the quality of teachers. 
In a presidential election year, the natural, ultimate political wish is that the voters demonstrate to the competing politicians that a huge campaign treasury is no match for fresh ideas courageously focused on the nation's true challenges, not on its constituents' prejudices. That there will be no Bob Jones University moments of gutter politicking this time. That Election Day itself will not be sullied by the kind of doubt-ravaged, long-count vote tally that led to the sorry spectacle of democracy-by-litigation four years ago.
Here in New York, if we had one holiday present we could have given Mayor Michael Bloomberg, it would have been a solution to the city's endless and ever-expanding trash problem. Mr. Bloomberg came up with what sounded like a great plan for getting rid of the city's garbage, which has really had nowhere to go locally since the gigantic city landfill in Staten Island was closed. But it turned out that the transfer stations and barges Mr. Bloomberg had envisioned were going to cost much more and take far longer to put in place than he had supposed. 
But the city's heart yearns for the rebuilding of ground zero, and our greatest wish for the new year is a dignified and steady march toward the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan. Happily, this is one place where ambitious dreaming seems likely to meet up with reality. So far, progress has been better than most of us could have imagined. The Freedom Tower's design stands ready, and we hope that the money to build it becomes available. That means Larry Silverstein, the developer, and the companies that insured the World Trade Center he was leasing will have to compromise. There is a lot of room between Mr. Silverstein's demand for $7 billion and the insurance companies' offer of $3.5 billion. It's time for them to find it.
The city, and the world, will never feel that plans are in place until a decision is made on the emotional centerpiece of ground zero: the memorial. Meddling by people like former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani have not helped as jurors have searched for the best design. But New Yorkers could probably not hope for better jurors to make this important decision. We hope they make it quickly and start this still-hopeful new year off right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); INSPECTIONS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (71%); AGRICULTURE (68%); PROTECTIONISM (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (66%); COTTON FARMING (66%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



4 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Year's Big Rally Helps Investors Regain Ground

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks broke their three-year slide with robust gains last year. But the market still has a way to go to return to the heights reached during the bubble that burst in 2000.
 The 2003 rally, which saw the Dow Jones industrial average regain 10,000, had some of the speculative flavor of the bubble's peak, as beaten down technology stocks led the rebound, although some had little or no earnings. Smaller-company stocks that many investors do not pay attention to also had a very good year. 
 Still, the year was a great relief to investors who had lived through a recession, an anemic recovery and the worst market decline since the 1970's. 
For 2003, the Nasdaq composite index surged 50 percent, to 2003.37, its third-best year ever. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 26.4 percent, to 1,111.92, while the Dow Jones industrial average, which jumped 6.9 percent in December, climbed 25.3 percent, to 10,453.92. The Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks put in its best year, advancing 45.4 percent, to 556.91.
The Dow and the S.& P. 500 are now at or near their highest levels in more than 20 months while the Nasdaq has not been this high since mid-January 2002. The Russell 2000 is the highest it has been in almost four years. In moderate trading yesterday, the Dow and the S.& P. 500 inched higher while the Nasdaq and the Russell 2000 fell.
Investors who have been in the market for years have survived the three down years pretty well while last year's rally has begun to reduce the losses for investors who bought stocks since 1998.
An individual who invested $1,000 in the stocks in the S.& P. 500 at the end of 1998, a year before the market slide began, had $973, with a compound annual loss of only 0.5 percent. Those who stayed with the S.& P. 500 since the end of 1981, the year before the beginning of the great bull market of the 1980's and 1990's, had $16,472 based on a compound annual return of 13.6 percent.
Now with the economy back on track and the Federal Reserve expected by many to raise interest rates this year, forecasters are not predicting as good a year for stocks in 2004. 
The big gains in the three major market gauges last year were a surprise, with many forecasters a year ago predicting just a 10 percent rise in the S.&P. 500 for 2003.
"People had pretty low expectations for growth at the beginning of the year, and we knew war was going to be declared," said Michelle Clayman, chief investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners, a money manager. "Then growth picked up, we had a tax cut and companies did well on the earnings front."
Investors had been pummeled in 2000, 2001 and 2002. In those three years, the Dow fell 38 percent, the S.&P. 500 dropped 49 percent and the Nasdaq plunged 78 percent.
"After three tough years, I think the investing public, public officials and businessmen have developed fears of the worst possible outcomes," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "When sentiment gets to that extreme, there is huge potential when the worst does not come." 
By last fall, the major combat in Iraq had ended relatively quickly and the economy was growing at a stunning annual rate of 8.2 percent, the fastest quarterly pace in 20 years. Corporate profits were heading for a 16.9 percent gain for the year, which would be the best year since 1999, according to Thomson First Call.
The $350 billion tax cut approved in late May helped keep consumers buying, job growth seemed to be back on track by the end of the year and business capital spending rebounded. Interest rates rose much less than expected because Federal Reserve policy makers promised to keep their benchmark rate at a 45-year low of 1 percent for a considerable period.
All these developments made it quite likely that the brisk economic growth in the second half of 2003 could continue into this year. 
Investors showed their appreciation by pouring more than $150 billion into stock mutual funds since the market rally began March 11, the fastest inflows since the peak of the market in the beginning of 2000. And the flows were accelerating at the end of the year, based on preliminary data, despite the mutual fund scandals, according to AMG Data Services.
"The biggest surprise was the return of the public to the market," said Andrew Engel, senior research analyst at the Leuthold Group, a market research and money management firm in Minneapolis. And, he added, "this was one of the big reasons for the rally." 
He said that he had expected it to take much longer for investors to regain confidence in stocks. But he said it now appeared that investors have become conditioned to thinking of the longer term and are willing, therefore, to jump back into the market quickly.
Abby Joseph Cohen, the head of the investment policy group at Goldman, Sachs, said that she saw signs that showed that some investors were still being cautious. But she added that the positive economic environment right now had made investors more willing to make bets that many companies with weak earnings now will do better in the future.
"When inflation and interest rates are low investors have more confidence in the durability of the economic cycle and are willing to extend their expectations for the economy and for the earnings of a particular company," she said. 
Besides the big 2003 gains, investors also got a much less volatile market. Last year there were just 15 days on which the Dow rose or fell 2 percent or more, compared with 48 in 2002, 25 in 2001 and 31 in 2000, according to Scanshift, a Chicago research firm.
While there is no unanimity, many forecasters expect the stock market to continue to rise this year, but at a much slower pace. Mr. Engel of the Leuthold Group and Ms. Clayman of New Amsterdam Partners say they expect 10 percent growth in the S.&P. 500.
"The discordant thing is that the big winners have been the low quality stocks and the low-priced stocks," Ms. Clayman said. "In order for the rally in these stocks to be justified you have to continue to see 20 percent to 30 percent earnings growth."
Among the head winds the stock market may face this year is a rise in interest rates. If the economy remains strong, rates should move higher on their own. And when Federal Reserve policy makers decide they have to raise their benchmark short-term rate, yields could go even higher. The Treasury's 10-year note finished 2003 at 4.25 percent, and some forecasters think it could rise as high as 5.6o percent this year. 
The growing federal budget deficit, which some forecasters say should rise to $500 billion this year, could worry investors and push interest rates even higher. The dollar, which fell 16.5 percent against the euro last year, could disrupt financial markets if its decline accelerates. And corporate earnings, based on current consensus forecasts, are not expected to rise as much this year as last.
The best performing sector during the year was information technology, which rose 46.6 percent, according to the Standard & Poor's index of 10 market sectors. Consumer discretionary stocks, including Best Buy, Tiffany and Sears, Roebuck, rose 36.1 percent as the economic turnaround lifted their prospects. The worst performing sector was telecommunications services, which was up 3.3 percent as a whole. Nextel, a beaten down technology stock, rose 142.9 percent, to $28.06. AT&T fell 22.3 percent, to $20.30.
Another way to look at performance shows that the best performers were stocks that began the year with very low prices. For example, 222 stocks in the S.&P. index of 1,500 stocks, which includes the S.&P. 500, had prices of $10 or less at the end of 2002. On average they were up 84.6 percent last year and 103 of them had no earnings, according to Birinyi Associates, a research and money management concern in Westport, Conn.
Among the best performing stocks were Avaya, the telecommunications spinoff from Lucent, which rose more than fivefold, to $12.94. Lucent more than doubled, to $2.84. Dynegy, the energy company that nearly went bankrupt, rose more than threefold to $4.28. Corning, the fiber optics company whose stock plunged to a low of $1.10 October 2002 from a high of $113.10 in September 2000, more than tripled last year to $10.43.
Many of the other winners for the year were smaller-company stocks, like 7-Eleven and Dick's Sporting Goods, which are not in the big name market indexes but had gains of more than 100 percent.
Another sign of revival came in the market for initial public offerings. Although such offerings have plunged since 2000, December, with 18 new issues, was the most active month since November 2000, according to IPOHome.com.
While last year's stock market performance was strong, both the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq have a long way to go to return to their highs of 2000. The Nasdaq has to climb 152 percent to get to its high close of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000, while the S.&P. 500 has to rise 37.4 percent to reach its 1,527.46 close on March 24, 2000. The Dow is much closer, needing only a 12.1 percent rally to get to 11,722.98, its record close on Jan. 14, 2000. 
But with relatively low interest rates and low inflation, it is likely that the Dow and the S.&P. 500 will pass their previous peaks much faster than its took the market after its last big sell-off during the recession of 1973-75. Despite a 39.4 percent rise in 1975, the Dow did not cross its prerecession high of 1,051.69 in January 1973 until the fall of 1982, while the S.&P. 500 did not regain its January 1973 peak of 120.24 until the summer of 1980.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the New York Stock Exchange floor yesterday, the last trading day of 2003. Stocks rallied during the year to end a three-year slide. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C5) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C5) Graph: "Doing Better Over the Long Haul"With last year's rise of 28.7 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500, including reinvestment of dividends, an investor who invested $1,000 in the S. & P. 500 40 years ago, at the end of 1963, would now have $53,389, a compounded annual return of 10.45 percent. But one who bought it five years ago would not quite have broken even. The figures assume reinvestment of dividends and exclude taxes and transaction costs. Graph tracks the COMPOUNDED ANNUAL RETURN* and VALUE OF $1,000 INVESTMENT* since 1963. *If investment made at end of year shown and held through 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



5 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: India's Soybean Farmers Join the Global Village 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: TIHI, India 

 BODY:
At least once a day in this village of 2,500 people, Ravi Sham Choudhry turns on the computer in his front room and logs in to the Web site of the Chicago Board of Trade.
 He has the dirt of a farmer under his fingernails and pecks slowly at the keys. But he knows what he wants: the prices for soybean commodity futures. 
 A drop in prices on the Chicago Board, shown in red, could augur a drop in prices here, meaning that he and fellow soybean farmers should sell their crop now. An increase there argues that the farmers should wait for prices to rise. 
"If it goes up there, it goes up here," Mr. Choudhry said. The correlation is rough but real. Real, too, is the link between farmers in rural central India and around the globe, thanks to a company's innovation.
The concept is the e-choupal, taken from the Hindi word for village square, or gathering place. The twist is the "e": providing a computer and Internet connections for farmers to gather around. Mr. Choudhry supervises the project for Tihi and several nearby villages. 
E-choupal allows the farmers to check both futures prices across the globe and local prices before going to market. It gives them access to local weather conditions, soil-testing techniques and other expert knowledge that will increase their productivity.
Nonprofit organizations have tried similar initiatives but none have achieved anywhere near the scale that e-choupals have. There are now 1,700 in this state, Madhya Pradesh, and 3,000 total in India. They are serving 18,000 villages, reaching up to 1.8 million farmers.
As a result, say those who have studied the concept, the company behind e-choupals, ITC Ltd., has done as much as anyone to bridge India's vast digital divide: most of its one billion people have no access to the technology developed by some of their fellow Indians, whether in Bangalore or Silicon Valley. 
E-choupals may offer a model for all developing countries.
"It is a new form of liberation," C. K. Prahalad, who led a case study on e-choupals for the University of Michigan Business School, said of the transparency and access to information they give farmers.
More than two-thirds of India's people still depend on agriculture for their livelihoods. With little chance of the huge manufacturing boom that has employed many rural poor in China, the challenge is to increase farmers' productivity.
Even more tantalizing, ITC now has the means to reach into some of India's 600,000 villages, where 72 percent of the people live and where the greatest potential markets lie. Most businesses never venture to an area with fewer than 5,000 people, said ITC's chairman, Y. C. Deveshwar.
Eventually the company expects to sell everything from microcredit to tractors via e-choupals -- and hopes to use them to become the Wal-Mart of India, Mr. Deveshwar told shareholders this year.
"We are laying infrastructure in a sense," Mr. Deveshwar said. Sixty companies have already taken part in a pilot project to sell services and goods, from insurance to seeds to motorbikes to biscuits, through ITC.
By overcoming the infrastructure problems that have hampered progress in India's villages in the past -- ITC decided to use satellites and solar panels, for instance, to sidestep the state's shaky power supply and lack of phone lines -- and by offering full Internet service on the computers, the company has instantly broadened villagers' horizons.
"We never dreamed of this, that our village would be connected to the world," said Mulchin Sath, Mr. Choudhry's father and also a farmer.
E-choupals were born in 2000 from ITC's determination to capture more of the soybean crop, which it turns into oil to sell in India and into animal feed to export. In purchasing soya, it has long been dependent on a static, archaic system: Farmers sold to village traders or went to government markets, settling for whatever price was offered. ITC then had to buy from the traders or markets, with little quality control and high transaction costs.
The idea of the e-choupals was to allow the company to buy more directly from farmers; e-choupals allow farmers to check prices the night before, and then decide whether they want to sell directly to the company the next day.
The company weighed trying to deliver information through television or radio, but given the variety of Indian farms and farmers -- knowledge, soil conditions and weather all vary immensely -- it thought an Internet channel would allow for more tailored information. 
E-choupals also provide information that will increase farmers' productivity and income. An Indian soybean farmer is one-third as productive as an American one, said David Upton, co-author of a case study of e-choupals for Harvard Business School.
Raising farmer incomes was an important goal. S. Shivakumar, 43, the head of the company's international business division and the originator of e-choupals, said he had long been frustrated by how a lack of opportunity limited the ambitions and achievements of Indian farmers.
"This has been a clear commercial initiative with social good in mind," he said.
Mr. Deveshwar agreed, saying he found it hard to become enthusiastic about making a rich man richer, but felt very motivated to make a poor farmer less so.
Besides computers, ITC introduced other efficiencies, like electronic weighing, which is more precise than the manual weighing at government markets. Eventually farmers, heavily dependent on the monsoon, may be able to sell futures on their own crops online, thus spreading their risk.
E-choupals have already reduced ITC's transaction costs and the quality of the soybeans it buys is better. As e-choupals continue expanding to other crops like wheat, the returns will be greater.
E-choupals show that "in an emerging economy, a profitable enterprise can deliver social good without an unnecessary trade-off between the two," Mr. Upton said.
The company has also shown that technology can be deployed even in areas with substantial illiteracy. ITC selects a lead farmer, or sanchalak, to run each e-choupal, which serves three to four villages. He is meant to be literate, progressive, young, with an entrepreneurial spark and a good reputation.
Mr. Choudhry, the lead farmer here, said he took an oath in front of the whole village to "work for the welfare of farmers with honesty and integrity." Farmers from his and nearby villages call or stop by to check prices or exchange information. For his efforts, he gets one-half of 1 percent commission on whatever farmers in his area sell to ITC.
Last year, Mr. Choudhry earned 14,000 rupees, about $300, in commission. This year, he has earned that much in one month.
"Our underlying assumption that farmers are entrepreneurial has proved true," Mr. Shivakumar said.
Mr. Choudhry has only a middle-school education, and says working with the computer was difficult at first. His 16-year-old son handles most of the e-mail, sending messages about crop diseases and communicating with other sanchalaks.
The venture has not been without challenges. The company had to convince states to waive laws, born of India's protectionist socialist past, that require farmers to sell their produce to government markets.
It has also run up against India's still entrenched caste system, with some communities demanding two computers so castes would not have to mix. ITC refused to yield. 
But most of its sanchalaks are from the dominant caste in a village, which is rarely a lower caste, because they must command respect. Mr. Shivakumar said in some cases, low-caste farmers still did not have access to e-choupals, buttressing some critics' concern that technology may just reinforce existing inequalities.
For now, however, e-choupals seem to be reducing inequality of access to information between some rural poor and the urban middle class. Monitoring data show that 70 percent of the activity on the ITC computers does not inolve the choupal, Mr. Shivakumar said, and exploration of the Internet has just begun.
In this village, schoolchildren have already discovered they can check examination results online, and Mr. Choudhry's father and son have found Web versions of Hindi newspapers. In Karnataka State, ITC will soon try allowing farmers to gain access to government land records through e-choupals.
In Chapra village, Atul Singh, 17, the son of the sanchalak, has learned how to download music from indiafm.com and to chat on Yahoo.
"How r u?" he typed, as his screen informed him that "asian-honeypie has joined the room." A flood of obscenities from a hacker then filled the screen, as the mellifluous cooing of a Hindi song, "How Unfaithful You Are, My Dear Friend," filled the room.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At soybean weighing stations, electronics improve accuracy.; Ravi Sham Choudhry gets on the Web most days in his Indian village to help villagers price their soybeans by checking Chicago futures prices. (Photographs by Amit Bhargava/Corbis, for The New York Times)(pg. A10) Map of India highlighting Tihi: Tihi is one of 3,000 Indian villages where farmers use the Web. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOYBEAN FARMING (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); WEB SITES (73%); CASE STUDIES (72%); MICROFINANCE (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%) SIC2111 CIGARETTES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA (58%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



6 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Study Clears Way For 900 New Cabs; Fares May Increase 

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
A formal study ordered by the city has essentially cleared the way for the largest taxicab-fleet expansion in nearly 70 years. It concluded that adding 900 cabs over the next three years would not pose environmental concerns and indicated that a moderate fare increase would probably assuage taxi owners.
 The proposed expansion, which is still subject to public hearings and action by the Taxi and Limousine Commission, would mean tens of millions of dollars for the city. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has already included revenue from the first round of medallion sales in this year's budget, and the Taxi and Limousine Commission, whose chairman is appointed by the mayor, has made it clear it favors more cabs. 
 The impact study, required by law and conducted at the city's request by Urbitran Associates, a New York City engineering firm, said that even intensified traffic jams posed by the influx of new cabs added to the 12,187 licensed taxis already on the streets could be mitigated by some modest adjustment in traffic-light sequences. The fare increase it seemed to suggest -- in the 25 percent range -- would be likely to placate cab owners who feared their market would become glutted. Taxi fares have not risen in more than seven years and are among the lowest among the nation's large cities.
"The significance in this is it's good news for cab users," said Bruce Schaller, who runs a cab research and consulting firm. "It's the last hurdle to increasing the taxicab supply in New York, which is badly needed. It also seems to pave the way for a fare increase, which is also badly needed."
The proposal to expand the yellow cab fleet, the biggest increase since the city imposed a taxi cap in 1937, has already received approval in Albany and from the City Council. Public hearings are scheduled to be held on the matter next Wednesday and on Jan. 12. The Taxi and Limousine Commission also needs to authorize the rules under which the medallions will be sold. That action is expected at a meeting on Jan. 29.
The intention is for 300 cabs to be added in each of the next three years, with the first group expected to be cruising city streets by June. The value of a medallion is currently around $225,000. Selling 900 new ones could generate about $190 million for the city. A third of that sum is already incorporated in the current year's budget.
Allan J. Fromberg, the deputy commissioner of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said yesterday that the commission had no comment on the impact study, because public hearings still had to be held. The findings, though, came as no surprise.
Noach Dear, one of the commissioners, said the study's conclusions were what he expected, and he anticipated that the city would now go forward with the medallion sale. Like some of the other commission members, he favors a fare increase as well, though he said he was not sure of the appropriate size. "There has to be a fare increase," he said. "Without a fare increase, the sales will not be successful."
What happens with fares will go a long way toward determining how welcoming taxi drivers will be of this rush of fresh competition. Bhairavi Desai, the director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, which represents many drivers, said her group remained opposed to additional cabs without a suitable fare increase.
The alliance has been pushing for a fare increase of nearly 50 percent, while the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which represents fleet owners, wants a 23 percent fare increase. The current average fare is $6.85.
Both the increase in the number of cabs and the fare increase would directly affect only yellow cabs, which answer street hails and operate primarily below 96th Street in Manhattan and at the airports. Livery car services, limousines and gypsy cabs would not be directly affected.
In trying to gauge what might happen if as many as 900 more yellow cabs suddenly materialized on the city's streets, the impact study measured air quality and traffic flow at fiveheavily used intersections in Manhattan.
One vital question addressed by the experiment was carbon monoxide emissions. The study concluded that levels would be the same or at worst slightly higher with the additional cabs.
New York City air has vastly improved since the mid-1980's. Carbon monoxide, according to state air-monitoring data from an East 34th Street testing station, has remained well below federal limits.
In assessing the effects of 900 more cabs on an already nearly immovable traffic flow, the study examined car activity at the five intersections.
The study concluded that congestion at the studied intersections would be significantly worse with the new cab influx. However, it said that this could be pretty much addressed by altering the traffic-light sequences so that just one second of green time was changed at each of the locations.
On a third crucial question, the economic impact on medallion owners, the study found that medallion prices would be likely to drop if fares remained the same. It studied the impact of fare increases of 23.4 percent and 44.2 percent, and concluded that a fare increase in the 25 percent range would be the "most neutral action" in offsetting the impact of the expansion on medallion values.
On the inscrutable matter of how to get a cab when your plane leaves in 15 minutes, the study had nothing to say. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (68%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



7 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; 
Coaches Receive Both Big Salaries And Big Questions

BYLINE:  By JOE DRAPE; Joe Lapointe in Pasadena, Calif., and Charlie Nobles in Miami contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
It is billed as the biggest football game of the college season, a prime-time matchup on Sunday between two superb teams, Louisiana State and Oklahoma, for at least a part of a national title. For L.S.U. Coach Nick Saban, the outcome of the championship game in the Sugar Bowl carries a personal stake as well.
 If the Tigers win and claim the Bowl Championship Series title, Saban will be paid one dollar more than the highest-paid college coach in the nation, according to an incentive clause in his contract. It means his annual compensation will exceed by that dollar the more than $2.2 million package paid to the coach who will stand across the field from him at the Superdome: Oklahoma's Bob Stoops. 
 How did coaching college football become so lucrative? 
"Is Alex Rodriguez worth $250 million to play baseball?" said Skip Bertman, L.S.U.'s athletic director and former baseball coach. "Of course not, and it's not a question of whether a baseball player or a coach is worth that much. The issue is what is the market value."
At least 23 college football coaches now earn $1 million, including the six coaches in the other three B.C.S. bowl games, which kick off Thursday with the Rose Bowl. That million-dollar benchmark, which was first reached by Florida State's Bobby Bowden in the mid-1990's, sometimes does not even include the abundance of performance incentives for everything from rankings and bowl games to players' academic performances.
Earlier this month, after completing an 0-13 season, Army hired Bobby Ross, the former Georgia Tech and San Diego Chargers coach, for a salary of more than $600,000, or nearly three times the amount it had paid his predecessor, according to academy officials. Earlier this week, Tennessee Coach Phillip Fulmer was given a one-year contract extension and a $140,000 raise, which increased his annual salary to $1,789,500.
The proliferation of bowl money and television contracts has powered this escalation in salaries. More than $90 million alone will be doled out by the B.C.S. to the conferences of the eight universities playing in the Orange, Rose, Fiesta and Sugar Bowls. 
But many wonder how healthy it is to pay a football coach -- no matter how many stadium seats his team fills or television hours his team commands -- more than the president of a university.
"We've created a huge entertainment industry driven by the greed factor," said William C. Friday, chairman of the Knight Foundation Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics and president emeritus of the University of North Carolina. "Name me a single company where a C.E.O. works with someone who makes five times more than him. What kind of business is that?
"When you add it all up, what's at stake is the integrity of the American university. You can't be an example of integrity and leadership when you have television networks and shoe companies subsidizing these coaches."
The newfound riches trouble some of the millionaire coaches. Southern California's Pete Carroll, who is paid $1.5 million annually, conceded that he often thought about the disparity between his salary and the pay given the university's professors.
"It's all about supply and demand," Carroll said Wednesday at a news conference in Pasadena, Calif., where his Trojans will play Michigan in the Rose Bowl on Thursday. "I don't think it's hard to justify that, when you take a look at the stadiums and the money that is generated by the programs and all that.
"But in another sense, in a more pure sense, it is kind of unusual that this would happen in a university setting, that there would be something that would be that far out of line. I think that's clear and it is somewhat uncomfortable at times for me to think about that because we are just coaching football. And other people are teaching some great stuff that is going to make somebody a doctor someday or a lawyer someday. And we're just coaching football."
But some athletic directors say coaches and administrators should not apologize for the lofty economics of college football. 
Dave Hart, Florida State's athletic director, said he had no problem paying Bowden $2 million annually. When Bowden took over the Seminoles in 1976, his salary was $35,000. 
"He transcends Florida State University with the level of success he's had, so I think he's worth every bit we pay him," Hart said of Bowden, who is the winningest coach in Division I-A.
As at Oklahoma and many other major college programs, Louisiana State's $42 million athletic budget is raised from private donors, gate admissions and television contracts. Every scholarship awarded to the university's 550 athletes comes from the athletics' budget, as do the coaching salaries. L.S.U. football costs $8 million annually and generates more than 70 percent of the department's income, according to Bertman.
He says the university is intent on making Saban the nation's highest-paid coach whether he wins or loses the title game because L.S.U. believes he possesses the talent to become the next Joe Paterno, the longtime Penn State coach. In four seasons, Saban has posted a 38-13 record, and he has the Tigers contending for their first national championship since 1958. More important, according to Bertman, Saban spearheaded the drive to build the university's $15 million academic support center, and his players have not been involved in a single off-the-field incident.
Bertman also acknowledged that if L.S.U. does not pay Saban top dollar, one of the seven N.F.L. teams with head coaching vacancies will.
"I think a lot of professors -- guys with Ph.D.'s and 17-page resumes -- do not realize that no tax dollars are being spent and that we do not believe that athletics is more important than academics," Bertman said. "And students and alumni love athletics, which makes it easier to sell."
The Knight Commission's Friday points to the hidden costs a university faces in fielding a major athletics program, like facilities and upkeep. Of the 117 Division I-A programs, 40 percent reported an operating profit in 2001, according to an N.C.A.A. report released this fall that examined spending on college athletics. But without state and school subsidies, only 6 percent of athletic departments made money, according to the report.
Friday also said that if athletic departments acted as if they were part of the university instead of outside it, there would be higher graduation rates and fewer instances of academic fraud and off-field misbehavior by athletes.
He said the escalating salaries of coaches was a symptom of a larger problem in college athletics: excess in lieu of accountability. "It's time for the American sports public to look in the mirror and say, 'Is this what my university is doing while they are educating my child?' " Friday said.
Michigan Coach Lloyd Carr does not necessarily disagree. He makes more than $1 million a year and, like many of his colleagues, works endless days year round.
"Well, I think I'm always reminded that we are on college campuses," Carr said Wednesday. "I think we are people who work extremely hard -- the hours, the intensity of the expectations, all those things, make it a profession where you earn your money.
"By the same token, I think with all the things that are going on, and all the issues, I certainly think that you can reach a point where it's too much, and I think the truth is, across the country, every institution has to make their own decision and every coach has to make his own decision."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michigan, which won the Big Ten title, is making its first appearance in the Rose Bowl since 1998. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (57%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



8 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 LateEdition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Treasury Prices Nudge Higher In a Day of Light Trading

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Treasury prices barely budged yesterday, closing the session fractionally higher in limited preholiday trading despite a decline in new jobless claims.
 First-time claims for state unemployment benefits declined to 339,000 last week from a revised 354,000 the previous week. 
 Analysts expected a slight rise to 355,000. It was the lowest level since January 2001 and should encourage those looking for a decent gain in the government's monthly payrolls report next week.
Continued claims did increase 81,000, to 3.32 million, but the four-week average for weekly claims hit its lowest level in almost three years.
"It's a surprisingly low number and would suggest that the labor market continues to improve," said Stephen Stanley, senior market economist at RBS Greenwich in Connecticut.
"We're just going to have to wait for the next payroll number to have a good sense," Mr. Stanley said, "because these weekly numbers do tend to be quite volatile."
Median forecasts are for payrolls to rise by 125,000 in December, after a 57,000 gain the month before.
The absence of many investors from the market on the eve of the New Year prevented significant price moves.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 2/32, to 99 31/32 from 99 29/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, declined to 4.25 from 4.26. 
The year-end yield was up from a 45-year low of 3.11 percent in June and from 3.82 percent at the end of 2002. The yield has ranged from 4.10 percent to 4.50 for about the last three months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



9 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 27 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR CONTINUES TO DROP. The dollar ended 2003 with a continued slide against the euro. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2572, up from $1.2549 on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since July 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%) CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



10 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
What separates rich nations from poor nations? History can provide some answers.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness," published by HarperCollins.

 BODY:
THOSE who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. To that old saw, an economist might reply, "If only it were so easy." Then every country could be rich.
 Alas, the process of economic development is hard to repeat. The great mystery is why. In recent years, economists have returned to their field's oldest question: What accounts for the wealth of nations? 
 "The real question now that everybody wants to know is, 'Why isn't the whole world rich? Why can't they be like us? Why couldn't the former Soviet Union become immediately like Switzerland or Denmark? Why is Africa mired in this horrible pool of poverty?"' says Joel Mokyr, an economic historian at Northwestern University.
"Once you admit that that question is on your agenda, which it now is, you can't do without history," he continues, "because you want to know how the rich countries got to be where they are. You need to look at their experience and compare it to the experience of the others." Those who do not learn from history may in fact never repeat it.
Professor Mokyr is the editor of the Oxford Encyclopedia of Economic History, a five-volume set just published by Oxford University Press. The encyclopedia took 10 years to complete, a short time given its scope. "Economic history," Professor Mokyr writes in the preface, "covers nothing less than the entire material existence of the human past."
The encyclopedia gives theoretical economists a way to check their ideas against the realities of the past. "You guys can't write these big, fancy models without looking at the details," Professor Mokyr says.
The encyclopedia does indeed provide lots of interesting details.
Did you know that the oldest records of chemical pest control date back 4,500 years, to Sumerian farmers who used sulfur compounds to kill insects and mites?
Or that a century ago, railroad companies accounted for half the securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange? (Before the railroads, with their huge demand for capital, securities markets traded almost entirely in government debt.)
Or that in 1850, shoemaking employed more workers in the United States than any other manufacturing business?
The past doesn't look quite like we tend to picture it: many of the people who got rich from the Industrial Revolution were not industrialists, but landowners who held urban real estate or property with access to water power or mines. From 1880 to 1914, unions went on strike at least 50 times to stop American employers from hiring black workers. Above all, Professor Mokyr says, "in the Middle Ages and in classical antiquity, the destitute were the vast majority of the population."
Some consistent themes emerge from the many and varied entries. One is the importance of technological innovation in raising living standards.
Consider cotton, an expensive and relatively unimportant textile until the mid-18th century, when spinning became mechanized. Before that innovation, an Indian hand spinner took 50,000 hours -- the equivalent of five years and nine months -- to spin 100 pounds of cotton. After the invention of the hand-operated cotton mule spinning machine in the 1760's, that time dropped to 300 hours. With the mule, human fingers no longer had to spin the threads, thread could be spun on many bobbins at the same time, and the strength of the thread improved significantly. After 1825, when the self-acting mule spinner automated the process, spinning 100 pounds of cotton took 135 hours. Cotton became a cheap and common cloth, and cotton production a major industry.
Technology even makes an appearance in the entry on religion, which cites estimates that "attribute 90 percent of income growth in England and the United States after 1780 to technological innovation, not mere capital accumulation." The relative insignificance of savings undercuts Max Weber's famous theory that Protestant thrift was the key to capitalist growth.
Another theme is the importance of legal and social institutions, which evolved differently depending on circumstances.
Take marriage payments, a once-common practice. In agricultural economies dependent on hoe cultivation, marrying off a daughter costs the family a valuable field worker. So grooms traditionally pay a bride price. Where farming depends on guiding heavy plows pulled by animals, by contrast, men are more valuable, and brides' families pay dowries. In modern economies, inherited familial wealth is less important than individual skills, brains are more important than brawn, and dowries and bride prices have mostly disappeared.
Like technologies, institutions also compete and change, with new and improved versions emerging over time. That evolution can change the relative economic positions of different parts of the world.
Until the 17th century, the Muslim Middle East was more economically advanced than Christian Europe. Islamic law allowed much more flexible partnership arrangements than Christian customs, giving Muslim regions a commercial advantage. (Non-Muslim businesses in these areas usually chose to be governed by Islamic law.)
The hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca, also fostered international trade. Many pilgrims combined business and religious duty, financing their trips through trade along the way, and sometimes coming home richer than they left.
But these once-helpful institutions eventually put theMuslim world at a commercial disadvantage. Islamic partnerships remained two-person ventures into the 19th century. Meanwhile, European laws developed more varied and complex partnership and corporate forms, allowing larger and more adaptable ventures. Meanwhile, the very success of the hajj trade discouraged the development of the nonreligious commercial fairs that spurred growth in Northern Europe.
Despite all the differences across time and space, Professor Mokyr says: "There are certain unifying themes that you see everywhere. People have to make a living. People would rather have more than to have less. On the whole, they don't behave stupidly. They do as well as they can under the circumstances. The variation is in the circumstances, in the richness and diversity of human economic institutions that have emerged over time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pilgrims on the hajj in February 2002. Historically, Muslims making the pilgrimage to Mecca also did business along the way, which helped to foster international trade in the Muslim world. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); HAJJ (79%); HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PESTICIDES (76%); STRIKES (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); INSECTICIDES (67%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (60%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); POLITICS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



11 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: $88 Billion in Sales of Emerging-MarketBonds 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Gazprom, the Russian natural gas producer, and Petroleo Brasileiro, a government-owned oil company, led a record $88 billion of bond sales by emerging-market borrowers in 2003, tapping into demand for higher-yielding assets after interest rates in the United States fell to the lowest levels in four decades.
 Companies in developing countries helped generate a 70 percent increase in the debt by selling $44.5 billion of international bonds, surpassing government sales for the first time. Latin American companies alone tripled sales to $17 billion. 
 The surge in sales came as credit ratings were raised for Russia and Argentina and amid prospects for faster global economic growth. 
The premium that emerging-market bonds pay above United States Treasuries narrowed to 4.22 percentage points from 7.65 percentage points at the end of last year.
"We saw this good combination of higher yields, economic turnarounds, new investors, and several credit upgrades in emerging markets," said Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who helps manage $185 billion, including emerging-market debt for Federated Investors, which is based in New York.
"The bonds will continue to be attractive enough," he said, "to compete with higher international rates and higher U.S. bond yields in 2004."
The demand for yield helped increase flows into emerging-market funds. Funds that had $13.6 billion at the start of the year showed $3 billion was added in 2003, the most since EmergingPortfolio.com Fund Research in Cambridge, Mass., began collecting the data in 1995.
In Brazil, where President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva sparked a debt rally by cutting spending and reining in inflation, Petrobras issued about $2.5 billion of debt and plans to sell as much as $3 billion in 2004.
Petrobras, rated three levels higher than the Brazilian government at Ba2 by Moody's Investors Service, sold $750 million of 15-year bonds this month to yield 8.5 percent, or 409 basis points more than Treasuries of similar maturity.
The debt now yields 8.02 percent, or 375 basis points more than Treasuries. 
Borrowing costs for both Petrobras and Pemex, Mexico's government-run oil company, fell an average 1.5 percentage points in 2003, according to Bloomberg data.
"We had to take advantage of lower borrowing costs and an increase in investors' appetite for foreign companies' debt," Sergio Gabrielli, chief financial officer of Petrobras, said.
In Russia, Gazprom sold 151.7 billion rubles ($5.2 billion) of debt. It plans to sell a similar amount in 2004 to develop gas fields and pipelines.
Moody's on Oct. 8 lifted Russia's long-term foreign-currency rating to an investment grade Baa3, underscoring the country's recovery from its $40 billion domestic debt default five years ago.
J.P. Morgan's benchmark EMBI Global emerging-market bond index gained 24 percent this year, beating the 2 percent return on the benchmark 10-year United States Treasury note.
The yield on the 10-year note reached a four-decade low of 3.07 percent in June.
J.P. Morgan took the top spot among emerging-market bond underwriters after ranking second last year to Citigroup, trailed by Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley.
Brazil's government also took advantage of the borrowing costs to sell $4.5 billion of foreign bonds, up from $3.9 billion in 2002. The price on the government's benchmark bond due in 2014, the most-traded emerging-market security, has jumped 32 cents to 98 cents on the dollar. Its yield fell more than 9 percentage points to 8.5 percent.
Pemex was the biggest corporate borrower in emerging markets. The company said it raised $6.6 billion from foreign debt sales, the largest participation in capital markets in the company's 66-year history.
Pemex, which has investment-grade ratings of Baa1 from Moody's and BBB- from Standard & Poor's, in May sold $750 million of bonds due in 2014 to yield 6.14 percent, or 270 basis points more than Treasuries. 
Developing nation economies grew 5 percent on average this year, almost twice as fast as the United States economy and 10 times the pace of the 12 countries sharing the euro, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Next year, emerging-market economies will probably expand 5.6 percent, compared with 5 percent in the United States and 1.9 percent in the euro region, the I.M.F. said.
The expansion may prompt central banks to raise benchmark interest rates, driving up bond yields.
The 10-year United States Treasury note's yield will rise to 5.1 percent by the end of 2004 from 4.27 percent, according to the median forecast of 59 economists in a Bloomberg News survey done between Nov. 25 and Dec. 4. 
"Nobody, I think, is expecting the returns in general to be as high in 2004 as in 2003," said Jonathan Binder, who helps manage about $1 billion of emerging market debt at Standard Asset Management in Miami. "There is a limit to how far the spreads" over Treasuries can narrow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker riding past natural gas storage tanks at a Petrobras production plant near Coari, Brazil. Petrobras and Gazprom of Russia helped create a record year in bond sales by emerging-market borrowers. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CURRENCIES (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (84%); PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GAZPROM 

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (84%); PBR (NYSE) (84%); FII (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



12 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Merger Renaissance A Good Possibility In the Coming Year 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
The last couple of years have been lousy for the corporate takeover business. The war in Iraq, the accounting scandals and the stock market's resulting instability all worked against the kind of megadeals that reshaped corporate America in the late 1990's.
 Despite the unimpressive number and size of deals in recent years -- deal volume in the United States rose to $525 billion last year from $439 billion, attaining a level that compares with 1995, according to Thomson Financial -- a bevy of overeager Wall Street deal makers typically manage to predict that merger mania will return in the next year. 
 This time, though, they may be right. 
The capture of Saddam Hussein, the beginning of criminal cases against those accused of accounting chicanery and a steadier stock market may finally provide enough confidence in the boardroom and the top echelons of management to pursue more deals. Companies in industries like wireless telecommunications that have been waiting for the right moment to merge -- like Cingular and AT&T Wireless -- may finally be emboldened to make a move, which would probably cause a domino effect of other deals.
"You have some companies that have held off doing transactions in the past couple of years until business and market conditions improved," said Steven Baronoff, who runs the mergers and acquisitions practice at Merrill Lynch. "If you look at the level of dialogue, the pipeline and the activity, it all points to a meaningful improvement in 2004."
While all economic indicators suggest more deals, some of the biggest companies may still hesitate to begin an acquisition binge just yet. "The Fortune 100 are waiting for top line growth to signal that their businesses have turned around," said Jack Levy, chairman for mergers and acquisitions at Goldman, Sachs. "When they experience a measurable revenue lift, I think big companies will focus on doing deals again."
The main factor in the willingness of companies to pursue deals this year may be investors' reactions to the first spate of transactions. Of course, one bad deal could ruin the party. For example, Bank of America's agreement in October to buy FleetBoston Financial for $48 billion in stock at the time was met with so much skepticism -- Bank of America's stock fell 10 percent the day it was announced -- that some deal makers say several other major mergers were pushed into abeyance, including a merger between AT&T and the BellSouth Corporation. Deals like that could come back, but they are likely to be structured much more conservatively. Big premiums are out. (A 40 percent premium was the main reason that Bank of America's deal for FleetBoston was panned.) Large, transforming deals are a bit dicey. (Anthem's $16 billion acquisition of WellPoint Health Networks was almost too much for the market to accept.) And so-called mergers of equals, where executives from both companies share power, are out.
"Mergers of equals where there is not absolute clarity about management accountability are out of favor," said Donald Meltzer, global co-head for mergers and acquisitions at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Boards are demanding to know who is going to deliver the projected benefits of the deal and how they are going to make it happen."
A lawsuit by the Las Vegas casino mogul Kirk Kerkorian, which is being tried in Delaware, is also likely to weigh on companies contemplating mergers of equals. He sued DaimlerChrysler, asserting that the German company Daimler-Benz and the American company Chrysler fraudulently labeled their 1998 deal a merger when it was actually envisioned as a takeover -- giving him no takeover premium as a Chrysler shareholder. 
Even if megadeals do not return, scores of smaller deals are likely to be driven by the hundreds of private equity firms that have cash. "There is a lot of private equity money that needs to be put to work," said Ray McGuire, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley. He said firms may be willing to invest for lower returns because stock market returns were lower.
With all that money sitting on the sidelines, private equity firms have become much more aggressive about how they have spent it in recent months, placing riskier bets and outbidding corporations that were once unbeatable.
"Private equity buyers have become more strategic in the sense that they are prepared to make a thoughtful longer-term bet on how a target's fundamentals are likely to develop, without having to worry about near-term stock price reaction," Mr. Meltzer said. Corporations, on the other hand, he said, "have become much more disciplined about ensuring that acquisitions are likely to create, rather than destroy, shareholder value." 
That may be one reason that Edgar Bronfman Jr. and a group of financiers led by Thomas H. Lee Partners were able to win a $2.6 billion auction for the Warner Music Group, beating EMI, which was unwilling to make a bid high enough to compensate Time Warner for the possibility that regulators could block the deal.
Another recent factor bolstering the bigger private equity firms, like the Blackstone Group or Thomas H. Lee Partners, is that they often own companies that they can use to compete against corporate rivals. 
For example, Blackstone has been eyeing the Blockbuster video chain, a unit of Viacom, people involved in the negotiations say. One reason Blackstone may be interested in Blockbuster, which itself is considered a risky bet, is that it already owns Columbia House, a direct marketer of music, DVD's and videos. 
But private equity executives warned that their rush of deal making might already be over. 
"Private equity people looked at the environment in 2003 as a once-in-a-decade opportunity," said Stephen A. Schwarzman, chairman and president of Blackstone. "At some point as the economy recovers, the corporations will become the ones that are aggressive."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Good Year, But Still Far to Go"Stocks rose across the board in 2003, ending three years of declines. But, while the gains were substantial, the major indexes ended the year below their peaks -- and in the case of the Nasdaq, well below its peak. The lingering effects of the bear market kept many companies from going public, making last year one of the slowest in terms of new stock offerings. For investors, last year could not erase the losses of the previous years, leaving people who got into stocks after 1998 still in the red. For a table of lead debt and equity underwriters for 2003, an overview of initial public offerings and an analysis of how investors have done over the last 40 years, see Pages C4 and C5. Russell 2000Decline from peak to trough (Oct. 9, 2002): -46%Decline from peak to end of 2002: -37%Gain in 2003: +45%Gain needed to reach peak again: +9% Dow IndustrialsDecline from peak to trough (Oct. 9, 2002): -38%Decline from peak to end of 2002: -29%Gain in 2003: +25%Gain needed to reach peak again: +12% S. & P. 500Decline from peak to trough (Oct. 9, 2002): -49%Decline from peak to end of 2002: -42%Gain in 2003: +26%Gain needed to reach peak again: +37% Nasdaq CompositeDecline from peak to trough (Oct. 9, 2002): -78%Decline from peak to end of 2002: -74%Gain in 2003: +50%Gain needed to reach peak again: +152% (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "Not Many Ventured, Some Gained a Lot"The number of initial public offerings in 2003 was the lowest in years, but several companies that did go public had significant gains. Initial public offerings -- Includes domestic and foreign issuers selling shares in U.S.'99: 510'00: 373'01: 108'02: 97'03: 88 Best and worst performers of 2003 COMPANY: Accredited Home LendersMONTH OFFERED: Feb.OFFERING PRICE: $ 8.002003 CLOSE: $30.60PERCENT CHANGE: +282.5% COMPANY: iPaymentMONTH OFFERED: MayOFFERING PRICE: 16.002003 CLOSE: 33.89PERCENT CHANGE: +111.8 COMPANY: Infinity Property & CasualtyMONTH OFFERED: Feb.OFFERING PRICE: 16.002003 CLOSE: 33.05PERCENT CHANGE: +106.6 COMPANY: KinteraMONTH OFFERED: Dec.OFFERING PRICE: 7.002003 CLOSE: 12.40PERCENT CHANGE: + 77.1 COMPANY: SigmaTelMONTH OFFERED: Sept.OFFERING PRICE: 15.002003 CLOSE: 24.68PERCENT CHANGE: + 64.5 COMPANY: CancerVaxMONTH OFFERED: OctOFFERING PRICE: 12.002003 CLOSE: 9.48PERCENT CHANGE: - 21.0 COMPANY: Advancis PharmaceuticalMONTH OFFERED: Oct.OFFERING PRICE: 10.002003 CLOSE: 7.50PERCENT CHANGE: - 25.0 COMPANY: Centennial Specialty FoodsMONTH OFFERED: Oct.OFFERING PRICE: 5.002003 CLOSE: 3.50PERCENT CHANGE: - 30.0 COMPANY: NitroMedMONTH OFFERED: Nov.OFFERING PRICE: 11.002003 CLOSE: 7.19PERCENT CHANGE: - 34.7 COMPANY: AcusphereMONTH OFFERED: Oct.OFFERING PRICE: 14.002003 CLOSE: 8.78PERCENT CHANGE: - 37.3 (Sources by Thomson Financial, Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Big Deals Back on the Menu"Though not like the heyday of activity during the stock market boom of the late 1990's, there were some big mergers and acquisitions in 2003. Coincidentally, the two biggest deals were announced on the same day. DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. 27TARGET: FleetBoston FinancialACQUIRER: Bank of AmericaVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: $49.3 DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. 27TARGET: WellPoint Health NetworksACQUIRER: AnthemVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 16.4 DATE ANNOUNCED: Nov. 17TARGET: Travelers Property CasualtyACQUIRER: St. Paul CompaniesVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 16.1 DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. 8TARGET: Vivendi UniversalACQUIRER: General ElectricVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 13.7 DATE ANNOUNCED: Sept. 28TARGET: John Hancock Financial ServicesACQUIRER: Manulife FinancialVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 11.1 DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. 10TARGET: AmershamACQUIRER: General ElectricVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 9.8 DATE ANNOUNCED: July 3TARGET: QVCACQUIRER: Liberty MediaVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 7.9 DATE ANNOUNCED: July 15TARGET: Sears' credit card portfolioACQUIRER: CitigroupVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 7.1 DATE ANNOUNCED: April 2TARGET: Concord EFSACQUIRER: First DataVALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 6.9 DATE ANNOUNCED: April 9TARGET: Hughes ElectronicsACQUIRER: News Corp.VALUE OF DEAL, IN BILLIONS: 6.6 (Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C4) Chart: "Leading Underwriters"Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for 2003. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue. Manager: CitigroupDollar volume (billions): $408.81Number of issues: 1,321Share of market: 12.0%Rank in 2002: 1 Manager: Lehman BrothersDollar volume (billions): 314.03Number of issues: 1,112Share of market: 9.3Rank in 2002: 4 Manager: Merrill LynchDollar volume (billions): 304.03Number of issues: 1.633Share of market: 9.0Rank in 2002: 2 Manager: Morgan StanleyDollar volume (billions): 301.99Number of issues: 1,011Share of market: 8.9Rank in 2002: 6 Manager: J.P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (billions): 264.59Number of issues: 1,079Share of market: 7.8Rank in 2002: 5 Manager: Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (billions): 250.51Number of issues: 881Share of market: 7.4Rank in 2002: 3 Manager: Goldman SachsDollar volume (billions): 241.49Number of issues: 630Share of market: 7.1Rank in 2002: 8 Manager: UBS WarburgDollar volume (billions): 208.59Number of issues: 781Share of market: 6.1Rank in 2002: 7 Manager: Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (billions): 198.19Number of issues: 707Share of market: 5.8Rank in 2002: 9 Manager: Bear StearnsDollar volume (billions): 180.25Number of issues: 506Share of market: 5.3Rank in 2002: 10 (Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MERGERS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); SCANDALS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (50%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); AT&T INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); T (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (61%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



13 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Nasdaq Led Comeback For Stocks in 2003
Stocks broke their three-year slide with robust gains last year. But the market still has a way to go to return to the heights reached during the bubble that burst in 2000. Still, the year was a great relief to investors who had lived through a recession, an anemic recovery and the worst market decline since the 1970's.
 For 2003, the Nasdaq composite index surged 50 percent, to 2,003.37, its third best year ever. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 26.4 percent, to 1,111.92, while the Dow Jones industrial average, which surged 6.9 percent in December, climbed 25.3 percent, to 10,453.92. Page A1. 

Unemployment Claims Decline
The number of Americans filing first-time applications for state unemployment benefits declined to 339,000 last week, the government said, the lowest in almost three years. Initial claims fell 15,000 in the week that ended Saturday from 354,000 a week earlier. The less volatile four-week moving average declined to 355,750 from 362,250. C5.

Comcast Seeks Initial Share Sale
Comcast exercised an option that would allow the company to sell its stake in Time Warner's cable business in an initial public offering. Time Warner will file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that clears the way for Comcast to sell its stake in the cable unit, according to a regulatory filing. C3.

Auto Parts Auction Business Sold
FreeMarkets, which makes Internet-auction software, is buying the auto parts auction business of Covisint, a venture of General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler. Terms were not disclosed. C2.

PPL Sells Cloning Technology
PPL Therapeutics, the company that cloned Dolly the sheep, sold the rights to its intellectual property, including cloning technology and patents, to Exeter Life Sciences for $1.35 million. Exeter is a Phoenix holding company with subsidiaries that specialize in genetic engineering of plants and animals. PPL is being dismantled after the company's scientific feats were not followed by commercial success. World Business, Section W.

Shrimpers File Antidumping Petition
American shrimpers filed an antidumping petition against six Asian and South American countries in hopes of shoring up a fishery ravaged by competition from cheap pond-raised imports. The petition was filed by the Southern Shrimp Alliance, an eight-state group that claims the value of the United States harvest dropped by more than half from 2000 to 2002 -- to $560 million from $1.25 billion. As a result, the group says that American shrimpers are being driven out of business. C2

Starting Small, Thinking Big
Gayle Warwick, left, an American living in London, has discovered that with barriers to trade and investment falling everywhere, she can create a mini-global empire in fine linens on a $16,000 investment and a lot of old-fashioned sweat. These days, going global is all the rage for United States entrepreneurs. Small Business. C4.

HealthSouth Trial Rescheduled
The accounting fraud trial of HealthSouth's founder, Richard M. Scrushy, will start Aug. 23, a federal judge in Birmingham, Ala., has decided. The trial had been set to start Monday. C5.

Avoiding Previous Blunders
Economists would be better off checking their theories against the reality of the past. A new encyclopedia of economic history can help. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

Financial Markets Are Closed Today
All United States financial markets, government offices and banks are closed today in observance of New Year's Day. Most overseas financial markets are also closed. The markets will reopen tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,453.92 up 28.88Nasdaq composite -- 2,003.37 down 6.5110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.25% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2572 up 0.0023The dollar -- 107.36 yen up 0.30 Graph tracks the number of jobless claims since Nov.Dec. 26: 339,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PETITIONS (88%); AUCTIONS (86%); CLONING (86%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (85%); SHELLFISH FISHING (85%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); PATENTS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ANIMAL CLONING (68%); MAMMALS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (64%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (63%); FISHERIES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



14 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: 7 Detained As Parmalat Investigation IsWidened 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: MILAN, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
The Italian police detained seven executives and advisers of Parmalat on Wednesday and were seeking an eighth, significantly widening the investigationof events that led to the company's collapse under about $11 billion of liabilities.
 Police in Bologna, near Parmalat's headquarters outside Parma in north-central Italy, were holding two former chief financial officers, Fausto Tonna and Luciano del Soldato, as well as a company lawyer and two of its auditors from the firm Grant Thornton. The police were also seeking the head of Parmalat's operations in Venezuela, Giovanni Bonici, though his lawyers said he was out of the country but would turn himself in to the authorities upon his return. 
 The police are holding the men at the request of magistrates who are investigating the circumstances of the failure of Parmalat, which sought protection from creditors earlier this month.
Earlier on Wednesday, a representative of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission met with the magistrates as well as with the new chairman of Parmalat, Enrico Bondi, to discuss efforts to salvage some of the company's assets, which include dairy products, fruit juices and baked goods, and to devise a strategy for discovering what individuals or institutions might have made themselves culpable of defrauding investors by masking the company's true state. 
The move appeared to push the investigation to a new level. The magistrates had focused until now on the investigation of the founder and former chairman, Calisto Tanzi, who was arrested on Saturday and has been undergoing questioning by the magistrates.
Among those detained by the police are a lawyer and close associate of Mr. Tanzi, Gian Paolo Zini; the chairman of the Italian unit of the auditors Grant Thornton, Lorenzo Penca; and one of the accounting firm's partners, Maurizio Bianchi. Mr. Penca announced that he had resigned as chairman before turning himself in to the police.
"We've closed a chapter," Col. Maurizio Raponi of the police, told reporters after announcing the detentions. "Our new work will be seeking out the missing funds."
An officer in Colonel Raponi's office said by phone that the men were accused of association to commit crime, a charge that the magistrates have favored because it gives teeth to their efforts after recent Italian legislation on financial regulation mitigated the penalties for most financial misdeeds.
Italian investigators suspect that Mr. Tanzi may have siphoned as much as 800 million euros ($1 billion) from Parmalat operations, mainly to finance other family businesses. The S.E.C. has filed a complaint against Parmalat, accusing the company and Mr. Tanzi of selling about $1.5 billion of securities to American investors while engaging in fraud.
People close to the company said the investigation was increasingly focused on financial institutions. One institution, Bank of America, became involved in the case earlier this month after it declared that documents appearing to certify an account it supposedly held of a Parmalat subsidiary in the Cayman Islands with the equivalent of $4.2 billion in it were forgeries.
A person close to Parmalat said the bank was also of interest because it had issued prospectuses and attracted investors for Parmalat securities issued in the United States. A Bank of America spokeswoman said the bank was cooperating fully with all the investigating authorities. 
Citigroup has also drawn attention for a loan it extended to Parmalat that was structured as an investment in a Parmalat subsidiary.
Virtually all of the men ordered held today were involved -- in varying degrees -- in activities the magistrates think might have gone to defraud investors by misleading them about the true state of Parmalat's finances.
In questioning by magistrates in recent days, company executives, including Mr. Tanzi, have told of efforts, largely initiated by Mr. Tonna and Mr. Del Soldato and put in place with the help of Mr. Zini, to invent assets at far-flung Parmalat subsidiaries in order to offset huge amounts of company liabilities.
Mr. Zini, for example, who is a partner in Zini & Associates in Milan and New York, has been closely linked -- through the testimony of company executives and also through documentary evidence -- with the creation of a Cayman Islands investment fund called Epicurum, in which Parmalat supposedly invested about 500 million euros. Parmalat's inability to retrieve that money in the last couple of weeks helped bring about its failure. 
In late August, when Parmalat was unable to provide Grant Thornton with a value for the investment in Epicurum, Parmalat's principal auditor, Deloitte & Touche, qualified the company's third-quarter results. In turn, the Italian stock market regulator, Consob, opened an inquiry.
In a similar case, Parmalat was unable to provide Grant Thornton documentation for an account, supposedly held at Bank of America, that contained $4.2 billion. Two of the Parmalat executives detained, Gianfranco Bocchi and Claudio Pessina, are said by magistrates to have used scanners and photocopiers to forge documents on Bank of America letterhead. 
As the extent of Parmalat's financial problems became increasingly apparent, Mr. Bocchi was among the company executives who destroyed financial records, including computer disks and other files.
Mr. Del Soldato, in his testimony to investigators, told how he had been instructed directly by Mr. Tanzi to falsify the accounts of Parmalat's Cayman Islands subsidiary, Bonlat, according to court documents. He said that it was Mr. Tonna who finally set up the system.
Mr. Del Soldato also told how he had ordered Mr. Bocchi to devise -- on a Parmalat computer -- the forged Bank of America documents that testified to the supposed Bonlat account. Mr. Bocchi, for his part, told the magistrates that Mr. Del Soldato had ordered another Parmalat accountant to destroy the computer with a hammer. He said that he had prevented this and had turned the computer over to investigators. 
The Grant Thornton auditors, Mr. Penca and Mr. Bianchi, were named earlier by magistrates as being under investigation, creating considerable embarrassment for Grant Thornton, which said it was never notified of the fact.
On Monday, the umbrella entity for the group said it was initiating an inquiry into the activities of the Italian unit within the limitations imposed by the partnership. In a statement Tuesday issued before its executives were detained, the firm said that "initial inquiries" had established that the Italian affiliate was "completely and extensively cooperating with the Italian authorities."
The statement went on to say that Grant Thornton "has consistently denied any participation in any fraud related to the Parmalat companies."
Considerable suspicion has been aroused over the role of Grant Thornton because the firm was Parmalat's principal auditor through most of the 1990's, when many of the financing schemes to mask Parmalat's financial troubles were first devised.
The firm audited two subsidiaries in the Netherlands Antilles, Zilpa and Curcastle, that investigators have said were devised so that invented assets could offset Parmalat liabilities. In 1999, when Parmalat was required by new Italian regulations to rotate its auditors, Parmalat switchedfrom Grant Thornton to Deloitte & Touche, but not before it shifted most of the liabilities from Curcastle and Zilpa to Bonlat Financing, which continued to be audited by Grant Thornton.
People close to the investigation have said that Mr. Tonna described to magistrates how he and Mr. Bocchi regularly forged documents testifying to assets that did not exist. He also told investigators during questioning that the idea for the creation of Bonlat came in part from Grant Thornton.
To keep Parmalat running, Mr. Bondi is expected to meet early in the new year with banks to seek new loans, a person close to the company said. This week, Parmalat hired a consultant to seek a buyer for its Archway Cookies unit in the United States, The Associated Press reported, citing a company statement.
But Mr. Bondi will have to tread carefully not to upset Parmalat bondholders.
Representatives for bondholders said this week that they are now on a par with bank debt in terms of who gets paid when in the bankruptcy process. They are concerned that any bank that extends Parmalat more money will renegotiate the terms of the loan, and back it with Parmalat assets, which would make bondholders subordinate. 
Parmalat's failure has galvanized efforts by the Italian government to overhaul the regulatory system, though critics say the effort could fall victim to infighting between the government and the Bank of Italy, the central bank, which now has considerable oversight authority. 
"I am convinced that either we turn the page, either we're able to give an answer, or if we continue to say, there's no hurry, then this will have an effect on the behavior of investors," said Gianluigi Magri, an under secretary in the economics ministry, which has prepared a draft bill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence West, the associate director for enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission, arriving at a court in Parma as part of a collaboration with Italian authorities investigating the troubles at Parmalat. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGISTRATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (52%) COURTS AND JUDGES; CRIME 

COMPANY: PARMALAT SPA (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) PARMALAT 

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (91%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (91%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



15 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
EL PASO SELLS INTERESTS IN ARKANSAS AND THE PHILIPPINES

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 The El Paso Corporation sold a lubricant plant in Arkansas and its interests in a Philippines fuel-sales venture and pipeline lease for $156 million. The Coastal Unilube plant in West Memphis, Ark., was sold to an affiliate of the Warren Oil Company of Dunn, N.C., for $34 million, El Paso said. 
El Paso, which is based in Houston, will also get back $45 million in capital from the plant, which produces 117 million gallons of lubricants and automotive performance products annually. El Paso sold its 50 percent interest in a Philippine fuel sales and marketing venture, as well as rights to a terminal and pipeline, for $35 million. The sale will result in the release of a $42 million guarantee. The sales are part of El Paso's plans to reduce debt to about $15 billion from $24 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL LUBRICANTS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: EL PASO CORP (EP) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (95%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (95%) SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



16 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Man Behind Sept. 11 Fund Describes Effort as a Success, With Reservations 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Kenneth R. Feinberg looks more fatigued than he did two years ago, when he agreed to work free as the administrator of the federal program to compensate the eligible relatives of Sept. 11 victims. The job, he now says, was "by far the most difficult assignment" of his legal career.
 But if he has worked almost nonstop, getting only three or four hours of sleep a night, Mr. Feinberg is not complaining now: 97 percent of all eligible families have agreed not to sue the airlines, government agencies or other entities and have filed death claims with his program. To date, those claims have paid an average of $1.8 million per family. 
 And yet, in his first public evaluation of the program, known as the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund, Mr. Feinberg painted a mixed portrait of this novel and wide-ranging government effort.
He said the Congressional statute that authorized his program had several deficiencies, including vagueness over who was eligible to file, and who in the individual families was entitled to collect the award.
The statute suffered from two conflicting impulses: to follow the standards of lost future income typical in tort cases, while at the same time making the fund fair to all income groups, Mr. Feinberg said. He ultimately devised the program to prevent it from favoring the wealthy over the financially disadvantaged, he said.
Similarly, Mr. Feinberg said recipients may have been unreasonably penalized by the government's decision to deduct from the awards the life insurance payouts and other financial safeguards that some families had taken.
"I am still undecided, assuming we do it again: should the details and rules be different?" Mr. Feinberg said in an interview on Tuesday at his law firm's Manhattan office. "It's one thing to tell a stockbroker's widow you're going to get $2 million, and another stockbroker's widow is going to get $3 million because she didn't have $1 million worth of life insurance. So the taxpayer subsidizes the difference. I mean, talk about fueling emotional divisiveness."
The success in attracting so many families was not apparent until an 11th-hour surge of applications. One-third of the 2,884 death claims and more than half of the 4,185 injury claims were filed in December. Mr. Feinberg said the surge was due largely to deadline pressure, strong word-of-mouth among applicants that the awards were fair and generous and the unwavering support of Attorney General John Ashcroft.
Mr. Feinberg promised a fuller accounting of his views when his program finishes processing the claims by mid-June. His views are likely to carry substantial weight concerning the lessons or compensation models that could apply to future terrorist attacks.
In November 2001, Mr. Feinberg, a Washington lawyer, was appointed by Mr. Ashcroft to be special master of the fund, which Congress created in the days after the terrorist attacks as part of an airline bailout package. Families were asked to waive their right to sue the airlines and other entities. In exchange, they would receive a tax-free $250,000 payment for every death, and more money depending on a family's economic loss from that death, minus the deductions for benefits like life insurance and workers' compensation.
In many ways, Mr. Feinberg was both an odd choice and the natural choice for the job. Odd, because of his political credentials as a former chief of staff for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, and as someone who was considered for the position of White House counsel in the Clinton administration. A natural, because of his extensive experience in mediating complicated compensation disputes, including those that arose over the Agent Orange defoliant used in the Vietnam War and the Dalkon Shield birth control device.
One month after his appointment, Mr. Feinberg issued draft regulations outlining the mechanics of the fund, relying chiefly on Deborah E. Greenspan, a partner in his firm, the Feinberg Group; Phil Perry, then acting associate attorney general at the Department of Justice; Jay Lefkowitz, who was general counsel of the White House Office of Management and Budget; and John Wood, deputy associate attorney general at Justice at the time.
But after families and elected officials criticized the regulations as stingy, Mr. Feinberg and his core advisers made significant changes in the final regulations, which were issued in March 2002, to increase the payments. From that point on, Mr. Feinberg worked tirelessly to persuade families to apply to the fund, convening hundreds of meetings large and small all over the country (and in Britain), from the ballroom of the Marriott Marquis in Times Square to the basement of his Midtown offices.
In the end, he said that although he had expected many people to file at the last minute, he was surprised by the sheer volume of those filings. Equally telling, he said, was the fact that 40 people who had originally filed lawsuits against the airlines decided to file with the fund at the last minute, reducing the number of lawsuits to 39.
That means that of the 2,976 eligible families, at last count only about 50 had failed to file either a lawsuit or a claim.
The statistics, Mr. Feinberg said, give him a "tremendous sense of personal satisfaction" in validating the fund as "a dramatic and stunning success." But because of the unique nature and emotional complexity of the Sept. 11 tragedy, he cautioned that the program should not be viewed as a template for future attacks, and certainly not "as an end run around the tort system."
Mr. Feinberg said he expected the program ultimately to cost $5 billion. He said he also did not expect the average payment of $1.8 million (with a high of $6.995 million) or the median payment of $1.4 million to deviate much.
Although he repeated his earlier assertions that the fund has no cap on high-income earners, he did say that he had tried to make the program more equitable, regardless of whether a victim was a firefighter, a dishwasher or a stockbroker.
"I don't think that Congress intended 15 percent of the people to get 85 percent of the money," he said.
After the program ends, Mr. Feinberg, 58, said, he has no plans other than to return to his private practice in Washington. But lawyers say his name often comes up when people speculate about candidates for federal judgeships or senior positions at the Justice Department.
Wherever his career takes him eventually, Mr. Feinberg said he will never forget the personal, often heartbreaking meetings with family members, and the chilling realization of the "incredibly random nature of death": a wife explaining that her husband had never set foot in the World Trade Center until that fateful day; a husband noting that his wife was eight months pregnant when she died.
"I'll never be the same again," Mr. Feinberg said. "I'll tell you that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth R. Feinberg said he had tried to make Sept. 11 aid more equitable: "I don't think that Congress intended 15 percent of the people to get 85 percent of the money." (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (75%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); AIRLINES (71%); TORTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INSURANCE BENEFICIARIES (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



17 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Helped Children Of a Partner Get State Jobs 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Gov. John G. Rowland personally sponsored for state jobs two children of a partner in a private development project, according to a log of job-seekers that the governor's office kept in the months after his 1998 re-election. The daughter of another partner was also hired by the state.
 A spokesman for the governor said the jobs, reported on Wednesday in The Hartford Courant, were awarded strictly on merit. 
 State officials also indicated Wednesday that federal investigators, who are looking into the circumstances of renovation work done at Mr. Rowland's vacation cottage in Litchfield, had widened their inquiry to include renovations at the governor's official residence in Hartford.
H. James Pickerstein, a Fairfield lawyer whose office was hired by the state to manage subpoenaed documents, confirmed that the state's Department of Public Works had been ordered by federal investigators to turn over documents regarding construction work and improvements done since 1997 at the residence.
Mr. Rowland has been under intense scrutiny since his admission Dec. 12 that he was not truthful when he first denied having accepted free work on his Litchfield cottage from contractors and state aides, some of whom are the subjects of a federal investigation into possible corruption in the awarding of state contracts. On Tuesday, legislators on both sides of the aisle said they were educating themselves on the process for impeaching a sitting governor.
Mr. Rowland issued a statement about his involvement in a real estate partnership, First Development Group L.L.C., on Dec. 18, in response to queries from journalists. The partnership was formed in 1996 and included four people: Mr. Rowland, Robert Capanna, Michael H. Cicchetti and Anthony R. Cocchiola. The four subdivided a parcel of land in Naugatuck and Prospect into two dozen building lots. Mr. Rowland said his initial investment of $7,200 earned him $60,000 before the partnership dissolved in 2001.
The log listing the names of 313 people who have applied for state work indicates that 10 were sponsored by Mr. Rowland. They include a son of Mr. Cicchetti, Michael J. Cicchetti, and a daughter, Kara. The son first worked for Mr. Rowland in 1995 as a staff assistant, before the development partnership was formed.
Mr. Cicchetti was named undersecretary of the state's Office of Policy and Management after Mr. Rowland's re-election in 1998. His sister, Kara Cicchetti, worked on that re-election campaign and later was in charge of the governor's appointments to boards and commissions, according to Dean Pagani, the governor's spokesman.
Michael H. Cicchetti, a Waterbury lawyer, handled Mr. Rowland's divorce from his first wife, Deborah, and was appointed by the governor to the University of Connecticut's board of trustees. Mr. Cicchetti did not return a message left with his secretary at his law firm Wednesday. Michael J. Cicchetti would say only that he worked at the Office of Policy and Management, earning about $110,000 a year. He referred other questions to Mr. Pagani. Kara Cicchetti could not be located by telephone. "Mike and Kara Cicchetti are more than qualified for the jobs they were given," Mr. Pagani said. "Their father is a friend who did a business deal with the governor. They weren't involved in the deal themselves." 
The names of Michael and Kara Cicchetti appear on a 20-page draft document titled "Resume Log Post Election." The log is one of thousands of pages of Rowland administration documents that are being reviewed by federal investigators and that have been made public by the governor's office. 
The log, which Mr. Pagani said was compiled in the months after Mr. Rowland's 1998 re-election, lists the names of people seeking state work and a brief sketch of their previous jobs and background information. It also lists the names of sponsors, several of whom are lobbyists, administration officials or prominent Republicans and Democrats.
Jo McKenzie, who is a friend of Mr. Rowland and his wife, Patricia, and who manages the governor's residence, is listed in the job-seekers' log as sponsoring Mark McKenzie for a job at the Department of Correction supervising inmate crews who repair state vehicles. A spokesman for the department said his salary range was $39,000 to $50,000. Mark McKenzie was identified by The Hartford Courant as a nephew of Jo McKenzie. Ms. McKenzie was subpoenaed by federal investigators about the cottage inquiry. 
Mr. Rowland's name, in the form of his initials, J.G.R., appears in the log as sponsor for 10 applicants, including the Cichettis.
Melissa Cocchiola, the daughter of Anthony R. Cocchiola, also a First Development partner, was hired by the state's Department of Public Utility Control, in August 1998, and earns about $51,000 a year working in consumer education, according to a spokeswoman for the agency. Mr. Cocchiola operates Cocchiola Paving. The company hauled $2,000 worth of topsoil to Mr. Rowland's Litchfield cottage in 1997 but was not paid until six years later. Since 1995, Mr. Rowland's first year as governor, Cocchiola Paving has been awarded contracts for state work totaling $1.3 million, including paving at the State Capitol complex in Hartford, according to state records. In a statement released Dec. 18, the governor said he had had nothing to do with the awarding of the contracts to the Cocchiola company. A call to Mr. Cocchiola on Wednesday was not returned. Melissa Cocchiola could not be reached by phone. 
Republican leaders characterized the revelation that the governor had hired the children of his one-time business partners as insignificant.
Louis C. DeLuca, a Republican who is Senate minority leader, noted that the Cicchetti children campaigned for the governor. "Patronage positions go to people who work in the party," Mr. DeLuca said. "This is normal." 
But James A. Amann, a Democrat who is House majority leader, said he it demonstrated "a pattern that fits with all the other lapses surrounding Mr. Rowland."
On Tuesday, legislative leaders are scheduled to meet with the governor to discuss the controversy surrounding the cottage.
Mr. Amann said he intended to focus the meeting on what he saw four avenues available to Mr. Rowland: "resignation, impeachment, indictment or an internal hearing." 
"Either that or he'll have to convince me how he intends to stay on, and let me tell you, it will be a tough sell," Mr. Amann said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An area in Naugatuck and Prospect, Conn., where a partnership that included Gov. John G. Rowland subdivided a parcel of land into building lots. Children of those partners later got state jobs. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SUBPOENAS (74%); CORRUPTION (70%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



18 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Claims Reach Lowest Level in T hree Years 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing first-time applications for state unemployment benefits declined to 339,000 last week, the lowest level in almost three years, the Labor Department said yesterday.
 Initial jobless claims fell 15,000 in the week that ended Saturday from 354,000 a week earlier, the Labor Department said. Last week's filings were the fewest since the week that ended Jan. 20, 2001, when President Bush took office. 
 "Claims are ratcheting down week by week, and if it keeps up like this, you could say that a sustainable recovery in the labor market is here," said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York. "This bodes well for job gains in 2004."
Claims were forecast to fall to 350,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists, from the 353,000 initially reported for the week earlier. Forecasts ranged from 340,000 to 360,000.
The four-week moving average of claims, a less volatile indicator, declined to 355,750 from 362,250.
The number of people continuing to collect state jobless benefits rose to 3.315 million in the week that ended Dec. 20 from 3.234 million a week earlier. The four-week average of continuing claims dropped to 3.293 million, the lowest since the week ended Sept. 22, 2001.
The insured employment rate, which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 2.6 percent in the week ended Dec. 20. The Labor Department also said 26 states and territories had reported an increase in new claims, while the same number reported a drop. These data are reported with a one-week lag.
Consumers are more optimistic this month about the outlook for employment than they are about the current job market. Consumer confidence last month slipped from a 14-month high as more Americans said jobs were hard to find, a report from the Conference Board, which is based in New York, showed yesterday. Still, 21.7 percent said they expected more jobs would become available in the next six months, the most since April 2002.
"There is clearly a belief that the job market will turn around soon," said Rick Cobb, executive vice president of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement firm. In its telephone survey of 1,200 people, 50 percent said they expected to have a job within three months and 92 percent said they would probably have one by June.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Jobless Claims"Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time since July. 4-week moving average (Sources by Labor Department; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); CHRISTMAS (66%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (70%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



19 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: What We Will Do in 2004 

BYLINE:  By Colin L. Powell; Colin L. Powell is secretary of state.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As we Americans turn the last page of our calendars, many of us are moved to review the achievements of the year gone by and to make resolutions for the year ahead. This can be a frustrating business if one dwells on subjects like exercise and dieting, but the twin task of stock-taking and resolution-making is a worthy discipline -- and not just for individuals. 
 We in the Bush administration have also taken stock and made resolutions. We do so with confidence because President Bush's vision is clear and right: America's formidable power must continue to be deployed on behalf of principles that are simultaneously American, but that are also beyond and greater than ourselves. 
 We resolve, of course, to expand freedom, and we are focused in particular on Afghanistan and Iraq. The Afghan people now have a constitution, a rapidly advancing market economy, and new hope as they look toward national elections. The aspirations of a free and talented Iraqi nation are also taking wing, now that Saddam Hussein's murderous and dangerous regime is no more. We are working to return sovereignty to the Iraqi people through a fair and open process and to ensure that the country receives the maximum feasible debt relief. As the Coalition Provisional Authority closes its doors on June 30, in accord with the Nov. 15 transition plan, we willopen an embassy in Baghdad.
While our efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq will continue in 2004, we are resolved as well to turn the president's goal of a free and democratic Middle East into a reality. We will expand the Middle East Partnership Initiative to encourage political, economic and educational reform throughout the region. We will also stand by the Iranian people, and others living under oppressive regimes, as they strive for freedom. 
This struggle will not be confined to the Middle East. We are working for the advent of a free Cuba, and toward democratic reform in other countries whose people are denied liberty. And we are resolved to support the young democracies that have risen in Latin America, Europe, Asia and Africa. The consolidation of freedom in many new but often fragile democracies will shape the aspirations of people everywhere, assuring that the 21st century will be a century of liberty worldwide.
Our efforts will apply to individuals as well as nations. In 2003 we freed thousands from oppression through President Bush's program to combat human trafficking -- whether for prostitution or forced labor or to turn children into soldiers. We have saved lives and redeemed the enslaved, and we will do more in 2004. Also in 2004, the president's plan for H.I.V. and AIDS relief will help free millions worldwide from the devastation of this horrible disease.
We resolve to promote prosperity, too. A new international consensus is helping poorer countries develop themselves through good governance, sound economic, trade and environmental policies and wise investments in their people. The centerpiece of our program for development, to be started in 2004, is the Millennium Challenge Account -- an incentive system that makes assistance contingent on political and economic reform.
We also made important strides in 2003 toward a more open international trade and investment climate, signing free trade pacts with Chile, Singapore and the countries of Central America. In 2004 the president will lead the effort to reinvigorate our global free trade strategy, and to advance regional and bilateral free trade as opportunities arise. His proposal to develop a Middle East free trade agreement is high on the agenda.
We are resolved, as well, for peace. Freedom cannot flourish and prosperity cannot advance without security, and this we are determined to achieve. Americans are safer as 2004 begins than they were a year ago. Afghanistan is no longer a devil's playground for terrorists, nor is Iraq an incubator for weapons of mass murder that could have fallen into terrorists' hands. 
Al Qaeda remains a great danger -- the main reason for our current heightened security posture. But its members are increasingly on the run, in hiding, in jail or dead. Its finances and communications are being disrupted, and closer intelligence and law enforcement cooperation among peace-loving countries is making headway against terrorist plots.
Iran has felt our sustained pressure and that of our allies to come clean on its nuclear weapons program, and has begun to do so. And Libya has renounced terrorism and weapons of mass destruction thanks to the president's robust counterproliferation strategy and bold British and American diplomacy. In our own hemisphere, narco-traffickers and terrorists are on the defensive thanks to strong United States support for a resolute Colombian government.
The war on terrorism remains our first priority, but success in that war depends on constructive ties among the world's major powers. These we pursue without respite; America's relations with Russia, China and India all improved in 2003. Ties with allies old and new have been strengthened as well, despite the growing pains of adjustment to a new era. Indeed, both NATO and the European Union will expand this year, which is good news for international security.
Our partnerships remain strong as do the institutions of international cooperation. We will rely on both to advance freedom, prosperity and peace in 2004. As we work to restore a liberated Iraq to its people, we invite the United Nations and the international community to help Iraqis establish a new citadel of free minds and free markets in the Middle East. With our NATO allies we will support the Afghan people as they heal their wounds and chart their future. 
With China, Japan, Russia and South Korea we will continue to tackle the problem of North Korea's dangerous nuclear weapons programs. We seek peace and reconciliation in the Korean peninsula, but we will not reward threats from Pyongyang or provide incentive for blackmail. With our quartet partners -- the United Nations, the European Union and Russia -- we will help Israelis and Palestinians achieve peace, so that a free Palestine will exist alongside a secure and democratic Jewish state in Israel. 
We are resolved, too, to share the burden to bring longstanding conflicts in Sudan, Liberia, Northern Ireland and elsewhere to an end. Such achievements will build momentum for the success of American diplomacy worldwide.
Freedom, prosperity and peace are not separate principles, or separable policy goals. Each reinforces the other, so serving any one requires an integrated policy that serves all three. The challenges are many, for the world is full of trouble. But it is also full of opportunities, and we are resolved to seize every one of them. If some of us drop a few pounds in the process, that's O.K., too.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); DIETING (72%); ELECTIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); EDUCATION REFORM (64%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (63%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (60%); PROSTITUTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



20 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Giving Up Those Weapons: After Libya, Who Is Next? 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Undoing a weapons program is one of the rarest of decisions for an absolute leader.
 After South Africa's apartheid government was replaced by black majority rule, South Africa astonished the world by disclosing that it had developed six nuclear weapons and then allowing the United Nations nuclear inspections agency, the International Atomic Energy Agency, to disarm it. That decision, in effect, was the result of a naturally occurring "regime change." 
 Libya's important and welcome decision to abandon its unconventional weapons programs is all the more interesting since the same government that got Libya into the business of developing forbidden weapons has now ordered the change of course. 
But the larger issue is whether North Korea and Iran can be similarly disarmed and, if so, how best to go about it.
Libya never got very far down the nuclear road and its weapons programs were not enough of a worry to rate inclusion in the "axis of evil" proclaimed by President Bush in his State of the Union speech in 2002. (Iraq, Iran and North Korea made the cut).
While Libya had acquired centrifuges on the black market, it had not assembled them into a large-scale cascade for producing highly enriched uranium. When it came to a nuclear arsenal, Libya was abandoning a distant -- but still dangerous -- dream, not a real ability.
North Korea and Iran are much tougher cases and ultimately a far more important test of the Bush administration's efforts to roll back weapon programs through a mixture of force and diplomacy, rather than the more traditional reliance on weak international treaties and policing.
American intelligence agents project that North Korea has already got one or two nuclear weapons and the ability to expand this presumed nuclear arsenal. Iran has also been working energetically toward developing a nuclear weapons capacity, American intelligence says. It remains to be seen if the signing this month of an agreement on international inspections will eventually halt those efforts.
The turnabout by the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi -- and the secret British and American diplomacy that encouraged it -- amount to just one step on the road to stopping proliferation, and the question is how to take the next ones.
From the start, the Bush team has said that Iraq was about more than Iraq. The Bush administration began the year with an audacious doctrine that held that removing Saddam Hussein from power would send a cautionary message to weapons proliferators and help remake the Middle East. As it heads into an election year, the Bush administration has highlighted the role that American power may have played in concentrating the Libyan leader's mind. Top Libyan officials, by contrast, have pointed to economic considerations.
The possibility of ending decades of punishing economic sanctions might indeed have led Colonel Qaddafi, who has ruled for 34 years and wants to stay in power, to chart a new course even if the Iraq war had not occurred.
Still, it may be that the American invasion of Iraq reinforced the message that the pursuit of forbidden weapons did not strengthen his government. The Reagan administration, after all, ordered Air Force F-111's and Navy A-6's to bomb Libya in 1986 after concluding that Libya was behind an attack on American servicemen in Europe.
There is no indication of a similar change of heart in North Korea, where there are indications that Kim Jong Il has drawn a very different lesson from the Iraq war. Having seen how the leader of Iraq was transformed into a prisoner, North Korea appears to have concluded that the best protection against an American intervention is a nuclear arsenal, the bigger the better.
Instead of renouncing its nuclear program, North Korea has in the past year advertised its supposed advances in making nuclear weapons. The Bush administration has turned particularly to China -- as well as to Russia, South Korea and Japan -- to try to advance diplomacy, but has in effect found itself with little leverage.
Threatening military force is not an option. War on the heavily armed Korean Peninsula would be a calamity. No Asian ally is prepared to back a policy of confrontation. With most of the United States Army preoccupied with Iraq and Afghanistan, the United States simply lacks the military muscle to marshal a credible threat.
In talks, North Korea has proved to be frustrating and possibly untrustworthy. The Bush administration, meanwhile, has oscillated between a hard-line policy of waiting for North Korea's collapse to trying to engage the North in bargaining. 
If there is hope of replicating the Libyan reversal it may be in Iran.
First, Iran has not yet developed nuclear weapons. So it would be giving up a prospective, and not actual, ability. Second, a diplomatic process is already under way.
Gary Samore, a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London and a former proliferation expert on President Bill Clinton's National Security Council, notes that Iran has responded to diplomatic pressure. 
What is needed now is a permanent solution, one in which Iran will permanently forgo efforts to produce nuclear weapons materials by enriching uranium or producing plutonium.
European nations have offered Iran access to fuel supplies for a peaceful nuclear program if it gives up its ambitions to develop nuclear weapons. 
"In the case of North Korea the Libya model is unrealistic," he said in a telephone interview. "It is not plausible that the North Korean regime, given their perception of the world, will give up their missiles, chemical, biological and nuclear programs in exchange for better relations. They view them as essential for their survivability. The best you can do is to achieve limits." If there is a chance to repeat the Libyan experience, he notes, "the test will come in Iran." 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A military analysis article on Thursday about the issue of persuading nations to abandon unconventional weapons programs, after Libya's decision to do so, misstated the timing of South Africa's decision to give up nuclear weapons. It was made by F. W. de Klerk, president under the last apartheid government, who issued an internal order to dismantle the nuclear arsenal in 1990 and disclosed that decision to Parliament in 1993. The successor government, under black majority rule, reconfirmed South Africa's nonnuclear status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); CENTRIFUGES (66%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



21 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: The Very Rich, It Now Appears, Give Their Share And Even More 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The top 400 American earners in 2000 provided nearly 7 percent of all the charitable gifts reported on income tax returns for that year, well in excess of their roughly 1 percent share of overall income, according to data released yesterday by the NewTithing Group, a charity that tracks giving. 
 The 400 taxpayers with the highest reported incomes in 2000 made an average of $174 million and gave away, on average, $25.3 million that year. Their combined giving totaled $10.1 billion, or 6.9 percent, of the $146 billion in charitable donations that Americans deducted on their income tax returns in 2000. 
 Charitable giving by this wafer-thin yet deeply rich slice of Americans, the new Internal Revenue Service data showed, represented an average of more than 14 percent of their incomes, compared with overall charitable tax deductions equal to 2 percent of adjusted gross incomes. Only a fourth of taxpayers file returns that allow them to deduct charitable gifts. 
Because tax returns are private, no names are connected with the reported statistical data. But one detail in the data suggests that some of the wealthiest individuals in the nation -- Bill Gates, George Soros, Ted Turner and perhaps others who are known to have contributed large sums to charity -- may have given even more than they could deduct on their tax returns.
The disproportionate share of giving by the top 400 -- who reported 1.1 percent of the $6.3 trillion earned that year by all Americans -- occurred against a backdrop of a major shift in government policies on taxing and spending. Beginning in 1997, Congress passed a series of tax cuts, the benefits of which have gone largely to the richest Americans. At the same time, governments at all levels have pared spending on social programs from education to health care to welfare. 
Supporters of the tax cuts, led by President Bush, have urged a shift toward charity to support social programs, while opponents have said that private acts of charity are an unreliable substitute for government assistance. 
The NewTithing Group, a San Francisco organization that encourages wealthy Americans to give more of their money to charity, paid the I.R.S. to pull more detailed data on charitable giving from tax returns filed by the top 400 in 2000, the most recent year for which such figures are available. 
The group received a breakdown of how much was donated in cash and how much in assets. It showed that nearly all of the increase came from gifts of assets, which qualify for a bigger tax break than cash. The data, along with NewTithing's analysis and commentary, were posted Wednesday night at the group's Web site, www.newtithing.org.
Giving by the top 400 from 1997 to 2000 grew significantly faster than their incomes, which ballooned with the rise in the stock market and the increased generosity of their capital gains tax cuts. The top 400 garner most of their income from the sale of appreciated assets, particularly shares of stock.
Their average incomes rose 80 percent in those years, to $174 million from $93 million, while average giving from the stratum more than quadrupled to $25.3 million from $5.9 million.
Claude N. Rosenberg Jr., a wealthy retired money manager who founded NewTithing, said that the 400 top taxpayers, generous as they may have been, could have easily afforded 40 percent more, or an additional $4 billion, without diminishing their economic status. NewTithing offers a calculator, called PrudentPal, at its Web site to show wealthy Americans how to give more and get the maximum tax benefit.
That such a tiny number of Americans are responsible for such a large share of gifts surprised some charity experts and scholars who study these issues.
"Seven percent of all giving is an astounding figure," said Edward N. Wolff, a research scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation and editor of the Review of Income and Wealth, a scholarly journal. But Mr. Wolff, whose research has concentrated on documenting increased inequality in American society, cautioned that other research reports showed that little giving by wealthy Americans went to charities that directly benefited the poor. 
He also contended that charitable giving by the superrich, measured against their assets, had been on a long-term decline.
Lewis M. Feldstein, president of the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation in Concord, N.H., which has commissioned studies of giving by the rich, said he was not surprised by the figures. But, he added, he was certain that the figures would make jaws drop "if given in a speech to any audience of wealthy Americans."
Mr. Feldstein agreed that it would be important to know where gifts by the wealthiest Americans were directed. 
"For an organization to qualify as charitable doesn't mean it benefits the poor," he said. "People tend to care the most about institutions they are personally connected to, and those that benefit tend to be those connected to people of means like land charities, museums, colleges and hospitals."
Until publication of the most recent data, which goes through the year 2000, the highest income category for which the I.R.S. reported was $1 million and up, a group that has now grown to more than a quarter-million households. It recently began slicing the top bracket even finer, reporting incomes separately for those with incomes above $10 million per year, a group with about 11,000 taxpayers.
The I.R.S. also issued a special report on the 400 Americans with the highest incomes each year since 1992. There were 2,211 taxpayers in the 3,600 tax returns examined over the nine-year period; just 21 taxpayers made the list every year. 
Actual giving by the top 400 taxpayers may be even larger than the deductions reported on income tax returns.
Mr. Gates, the co-founder and chairman of Microsoft, announced in 1999 gifts totaling $15 billion to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Yet the I.R.S. data show total charitable giving by the top 400 of just $11 billion for that year.
The most logical explanation for the disparity is that only part of the gifts from the Gates family qualified for an income tax deduction. Mr. Gates announced that his gifts were in shares of Microsoft. Congress limits deductions for gifts of appreciated assets, such as stock, to 30 percent of the donor's adjusted gross income. To deduct the entire gift, Mr. and Mrs. Gates would have had to report income of $50 billion in 1999.
Gifts that cannot be deducted immediately, however, can be carried forward and used as deductions over the following five years.
Similarly, Ted Turner, the founder of CNN, which he sold in 1995 to Time Warner, promised to give a total of $1 billion over 10 years to charities for the United Nations. If such gifts were made in appreciated stock, Mr. Turner would have to report an annual income of at least $333 million to qualify for the full deduction. 
Mr. Soros, who made his billions running a highly successful hedge fund, has also announced huge gifts that may have exceeded the maximum deduction, based on his public statements and the new I.R.S. data.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the 400 top earners, and top charitable givers, in America are Bill and Melinda Gates, who may have given more than they could deduct from their taxes. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C1); Bill Gates administered polio vaccine in India in 2000 as part of his foundation's campaign to support childhood immunization programs. (Photo by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)(pg. C3) Chart: "As Market Roared, Giving Rose"During the last years of the bull market, the 400 Americans with the highest incomes gave a higher proportion of their income, particularly in the form of appreciated assets like stocks, to charity. AVERAGE GIVING AMONG 400 AMERICANS WITH HIGHEST INCOMES; latest available figures 1997CASH: $1.5APPRECIATED ASSETS -- In millions: $4.4SHARE OF ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME DONATED: 6.4% 1998CASH: $3.8APPRECIATED ASSETS -- In millions: $4.3SHARE OF ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME DONATED: 7.4 1999CASH: $1.9APPRECIATED ASSETS -- In millions: $9.1SHARE OF ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME DONATED: 8.2 2000CASH: $2.5APPRECIATED ASSETS -- In millions: $22.8SHARE OF ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME DONATED: 14.5 (Source by NewTithing Group)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CHARITIES (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); CHARITABLE GIVING (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); CHILDREN (67%) PHILANTHROPY; TAXATION; CHILDREN AND FAMILIES 

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); MELINDA GATES (50%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004 



22 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 3370 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show. + means discounted tickets were at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.

Broadway

+ "ANNA IN THE TROPICS." That slowly rotating ceiling fan isn't the only thing stirring the air in Nilo Cruz's earnestly poetic play, which won this year's Pulitzer Prize for drama. Every breath seems to emerge as a sigh, every word as a longing for the unobtainable. In evoking the lost Cuban-American world of a Florida cigar factory in 1929, Mr. Cruz has created a work as wistful and affectingly ambitious as its characters. "Anna in the Tropics" reaches for that corner of artistic eternity occupied by Chekhov's plays of yearning. But while there's warmth and sincerity in the performances, especially those of Jimmy Smits and Daphne Rubin-Vega as adulterous lovers, Emily Mann's straightforward staging does not show off Mr. Cruz's sometimes clumsy lyricism to its best advantage. Like the romance-drunk souls who inhabit it, "Anna" ultimately finds that its reach exceeds its grasp (2:20). Royale Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m., Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Added performance: today at 2 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $81.25, with a limited number of $21.25 student rush tickets at the box office on day of performance (Ben Brantley).

+ "GOLDA'S BALCONY." In October 1973 a 75-year-old woman who grew up in Milwaukee nearly started a nuclear holocaust. The woman, of course, was the Israeli prime minister, Golda Meir; the occasion was the 1973 Middle East War. As a story, it needs very little help from a dramatist or, for that matter, from a director, a designer, an actor or any other theatrically creative type. Moreover, the elements of the pure narrative are so colossally charged with tension and consequence that understatement is the way to go. "Golda's Balcony" doesn't go that way, however. It is not the story of a crucial moment in world history but a ponderous essay wrapped in melodramatic autobiography, acted with a soulless verve by Tovah Feldshuh and presented in a cheesily overwrought production directed by Scott Schwartz (1:30). Hayes, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 5 and 8:30 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Added performance: today at 3 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 and $81.25; a limited number of student rush tickets are available on the day of the performance for $26.25 (Bruce Weber).

*+ "I AM MY OWN WIFE." Doug Wright's one-actor play, with a thrillingly accomplished performance by Jefferson Mays and a diamond-sharp production directed by Moises Kaufman, has made a rewarding transition to Broadway. The play tells a terrific story based on a real person, Charlotte von Mahlsdorf (ne Lothar Berfelde), a soft-spoken but tenaciously gender-bending biological man who died in 2002 at 74. Her lifelong obsession -- Mahlsdorf preferred to be thought of as female -- was the preservation of furniture, especially from the 1890's, and other household relics like Victrolas and gramophones. Her devotion to her astonishing collection, with which she turned her home into a museum, gave focus and motivation to a life whose grandest achievement was that it proceeded to its natural end. The play is largely about Charlotte's enduring the cruel repressions of the Nazis and the Communists, and her harrowing tales of survival through the eras of the Gestapo and the Stasi are nothing short of breathtaking. Ah, but are they credible? That also becomes an issue in the play, which very subtly but, in the end, quite powerfully makes a case for the necessity of storytelling in our lives (2:30). Lyceum, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Added performances: today at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 7 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $86.25, with $20 student and teacher tickets at the box office the day of the show (Weber).

*+ "URINETOWN." This fiercely loopy and self-conscious satire of the social conscience of the musical theater is both exuberantly entertaining and, in the context of recent events, a defiant statement on behalf of American creativity and vibrancy. The story is ridiculous spoofery: the population of a city that has been desiccated by a drought revolts against the corrupt alliance of business and government that controls public toilets. And with a rousing score by Mark Hollmann, a ribald and tongue-in-cheek book by Greg Kotis, hilariously referential choreography by John Carrafa and gregarious staging by John Rando, the show couldn't be more ludicrously enjoyable. Beneath its cartoonish surface, it tiptoes thematically along the edge of the grave issues now consuming all of us. It presents innocent people victimized by conscienceless evil, debates the appropriateness of murderous vengeance, illustrates the rage of those who suffer in poverty and perceive cruelty in capitalism and, in the end, lambastes the presumption and wastefulness of people who don't recognize that they are privileged. "Urinetown" is equal parts visceral entertainment jolt and lingering provocation and simply the most gripping and galvanizing theater experience in town (2:10). Henry Miller, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Added performance: today at 2 p.m. Tickets: $35 and $95; a limited number of $25 tickets are at the box office three hours before each show (Weber).

*+ "WONDERFUL TOWN." Having established herself as the first lady of musical tragedy -- winning Tony Awards for Stephen Sondheim's "Passion" and a somber "King and I" -- Donna Murphy has crossed to the sunny side of the street. And in this captivating revival of Leonard Bernstein's musical love poem to Manhattan, she gives one of the most dazzlingly accomplished performances you're ever likely to see. As the writer Ruth Sherwood, the role that Rosalind Russell slayed 'em with in 1954, Ms. Murphy blithely juggles assorted gleaming styles without ever breaking character. If much of Kathleen Marshall's staging of this tale of dewy sisters from Ohio in New York isn't up to Ms. Murphy, well, what would be? Jennifer Westfeldt is charming as Ruth's boy-magnet of a sister. And the orchestra, under the direction of Rob Fisher, is superb, giving ebullient life to Bernstein's lighthearted city symphony of a score (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $56 and $101 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

* "AUNT DAN AND LEMON." A luscious, deeply disturbing revival of Wallace Shawn's 1985 play, directed by Scott Elliott for the New Group. Portraying the show's narrator, a sickly woman transfixed by recollections of an English childhood during the Vietnam War, the superb Lili Taylor must say some appalling things -- the sort of statements that had one elderly man in the audience exclaiming, "For shame!" Lemon argues, among other things, that the Nazis weren't such bad guys. Yet Ms. Taylor remains calm and quietly gleeful as she describes her relationship as a little girl with an American scholar at Oxford University, a friend of her parents, played with both voluptuous glamour and Yankee forthrightness by Kristen Johnston. Lemon's initiation into Dan's coldblooded worldview is the seduction that shapes the plot. It is Lemon's courtship of the audience while evoking this bizarrely sentimental education that makes Mr. Shawn's play such a mesmerizing experience (1:50). Clurman Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Mondays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; added performance Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $50 (Brantley).

"CAROLINE, OR CHANGE." A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner ("Angels in America") and Jeanine Tesori ("Thoroughly Modern Millie"), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through "Caroline," from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score, which avoids anthems of uplift. The tone throughout is even-handed, slightly distanced compassion, as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. The first-rate cast includes Veanne Cox, as Caroline's uptight employer; the lovely Anika Noni Rose, as Caroline's daughter; and the refreshingly direct Harrison Chad, who plays the motherless boy who idolizes Caroline. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. In ambition and achievement "Caroline" handily tops this season's new musicals. But it is almost too good to be good (2:35). Newman Theater in the Joseph Papp Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m. Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m.; added performance Sunday at 7 p.m. Tickets: $70, with a limited number of $15 tickets available at the box office 30 minutes before the performance (Brantley).

+ "FRAME 312." Conspiracy theorists' alert! In Keith Reddin's speculative and rueful new play, the lone gunman explanation for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy is dismissed as if it were self-evidently contrary to fact. But that's just the beginning; it is the suggestion of the play that the crime and its cover-up have curdled the American experience. The title refers to a crucial moment in the famous Zapruder film of the Kennedy murder. And Mr. Reddin has concocted a cloak-and-dagger series of flashbacks to 1963 to suggest that the original film has never been seen by most Americans. Instead, the play sets up the film as a metaphor and claims that the public version is doctored, the proof of which is in the unlikely possession of a widow in suburban New Jersey who has two troubled grown children. Mr. Reddin is ambitious in his social commentary, but the particulars of his vision are hazy, and what we are to make of the relationship between the past and the present or the Zapruder tape and the problems of Lynette's family remains uncertain (2:00). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m.; added performance Sunday at 7 p.m. Tickets: $45, with a limited number of $10 student rush tickets at the box office 30 minutes before the performance (Weber).

"NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH." The list of losses runs long in John Kani's deeply felt portrait of emotional limbo in post-apartheid South Africa. Mr. Kani portrays Sipho, a 63-year-old librarian who gives newly abject resonance to Milton's line about those who "only stand and wait." Preparing for the funeral of his brother, an exiled hero of the anti-apartheid movement, Sipho counts the ways he has been cheated by life. But while there are harrowing accounts of political murders, Mr. Kani is more interested in tallying the quieter casualties of an inhuman social system and a culture in flux. Staged by Janice Honeyman, the play is on one level a conventional domestic melodrama, filled with staggered revelations of family secrets. But within this creaky structure burns an illuminating fire of authentic guilt and pain. With Esmeralda Bihl as Sipho's tradition-rattling niece from abroad and the excellent Warona Seane as his loving but restless daughter (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 (Brantley).

* "THE REGARD EVENING." Time stands still for no clown. Or so it would seem from the second half of this delightful production from the Signature Theater Company, which offers a reprise of Bill Irwin's "Regard of Flight" (from 1982) and appends a postscript that regards "Regard" with the hindsight of two decades. In Act II middle age lands like an anvil upon Mr. Irwin, as his back stiffens and his steps become cautious. Which would be a depressing spectacle if you hadn't seen him before the intermission, when he sprang, slithered, bent and undulated like a human hybrid of Gumby and a Slinky toy. This is one old fool who can still deliver the antic goods as he did 20 years ago. Assisted by his original comic accomplices, Doug Skinner and Michael O'Connor, Mr. Irwin is still blissfully reminding audiences of how that exasperating thing called life is always tripping you up (1:35). Signature Theater Company, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 3 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Brantley).

"ROSE'S DILEMMA." Neil Simon's transparent comedy about a woman's relationship with the ghost of her dead lover is haunted in ways its creators surely never dreamed. There is, most conspicuously, the nagging phantom of the Star Who Isn't There. That's Mary Tyler Moore, who left the production of Mr. Simon's latest offering only two weeks before it opened. She has been replaced by her courageous, artificial-seeming understudy, Patricia Hodges. But Ms. Moore's spirit still lingers, exhaling what sounds like a sigh of relief. Directed by Lynne Meadow, "Rose's Dilemma" portrays a Lillian Hellman-like playwright (Ms. Hodges) in thrall to the spirit of her Dashiell Hammett-like lover (John Cullum). Though the play is about getting over the past to live in the present, no one seems very alive. The performers sling their Simonesque zingers with polite timidity, as if afraid their characters might break if fully embraced (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club, Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $60 (Brantley).

Last Chance

*+ "BECKETT/ALBEE." When Brian Murray and Marian Seldes get together in a play by Edward Albee, they seem to levitate like Astaire and Rogers. The easy elegance, the polished technique, the playfulness and the passion have been buffed to a high gloss in "Counting the Ways," Mr. Albee's blithely serious portrait of a marriage. Mr. Murray and Ms. Seldes perform a funny, deliberately stylized pas de deux that suggests a melding of Noel Coward and Samuel Beckett. In the show's first half, they take on Beckett himself in three short plays ("Not I," "A Piece of Monologue" and "Footfalls"). They don't wear Beckett's tatters with quite the same assurance that they wear Albee's party clothes. But the evening offers a fascinating counterpoint of two playwrights of shared sensibility and contrasting styles (1:30). Century Center, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $65, with a limited number of $20 student tickets at the box office on the day of performance (Brantley).

*+ "CABARET." Nobody doesn't like "Cabaret." All right, that's probably an exaggeration, but nobody resents it, unlike a lot of other long-running musicals. It's never been a joke the way "Cats" became. It's not a symbol of corporate theater, as "The Lion King" is. You won't find anyone casting eyes upward in amazement at the taste of the theatergoing public and declaring, "Egads, won't it ever close?" Rather, the Roundabout Theater Company revival, closing on Sunday after five and a half years, is that rare long run that is leaving without having worn out its welcome. This, of course, is partly because of the Kander and Ebb score, one of the few with the kind of lingering power that comes from pungent musicality tied to memorable emotions. But beyond the show itself, the Roundabout production has quietly enriched the world of the stage (and to some degree the screen) in ways that not many shows can claim. Just for starters, it brought two new Broadway theaters on line, the Henry Miller, where the show began, and its current home, Studio 54; it brought to Broadway two new directors, Sam Mendes and Rob Marshall; it introduced American audiences to Alan Cumming, who was the first to play the M.C.; and two Tony winners from this year, Denis O'Hare and Michele Pawk, were also part of the original cast. Hail and farewell (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m. Food and beverages available. Tickets: $26.25 to $96.25 (Weber).

"THE CARETAKER." The young English actor Aidan Gillen makes a smashing Broadway debut in this dutiful revival of Harold Pinter's breakthrough drama. Under the direction of David Jones, this story of two brothers (Mr. Gillen and Kyle MacLachlan) and an old derelict (Patrick Stewart) in close quarters never really gives off much heat. The production makes its points and lands its jokes as lucidly as a series of vaudeville sketches. But the dissonant music heard between scenes suggests that the production is striving for a darker complexity that it rarely achieves. Mr. Stewart, who plays Pinter as if it were Dickens, and Mr. MacLachlan have moments of dramatic power. By and large, though, only Mr. Gillen, with his tight little enigmatic smile, seems fluent in Mr. Pinter's language of ambiguity. And a tense, triangular power struggle reads instead as a flat, lopsided geometric figure (2:00). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $41.25 to $66.25 (Brantley).

*+ "TAKE ME OUT" (Tony winner for best play). Playing a socially challenged money manager named Mason Marzac, Denis O'Hare (Tony winner for best featured actor in a play) shines with the gloom-dispelling wattage that comes when a first-rate actor meets a role he was born to play. When Mason talks about baseball (yes, baseball) in Richard Greenberg's comic drama, directed with verve by Joe Mantello (Tony winner for best director), the show emanates the dewy, delirious passion of a "Boheme" for the ESPN set. This story of pride and prejudice in professional sports, first seen at the Public Theater, has been advantageously shaved and streamlined for its Broadway incarnation. But in tracing the impact of a godlike baseball player (the perfectly cast Daniel Sunjata) who declares his homosexuality, Mr. Greenberg winds up sacrificing fully developed characters and plotting to Ideas with a capital I. Those notorious shower scenes remain, just so you know. Yet it is Mr. Greenberg's infatuation with baseball, ecstatically channeled by Mr. O'Hare, that makes this a show to cheer about (2:45). Walter Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $21 to $81 (Brantley).

"A VERY MERRY UNAUTHORIZED CHILDREN'S SCIENTOLOGY PAGEANT." A deadpan musical biography of the life of L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology, as told through the mouths of babes -- or to be exact, cast members from 8 to 12. By virtue of their youth, these performers transform what would otherwise be a facile satire into a spooky, sharp-toothed smile of a show. Conceived and directed by Alex Timbers, with text and music by Kyle Jarrow, "Pageant" does indeed have the authentically home-brewed flavor of holiday religious pageants in church basements. A deliberately faux-naif show, it isn't much more than a stunt, but it's a very knowing one. Letting the gap between subject and presentation do the talking, "Pageant" provides a cult-hit blueprint for a young generation that prefers its irony delivered not with a wink, but a blank stare (1:00). John Houseman Theater, 450 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tickets: $25 (Brantley).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sophie Whitfield in "Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant." (Photo by Alex Timbers); Still clowning around: Bill Irwin in "The Regard Evening." (Photo by Carol Rosegg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (70%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); FILM DIRECTORS (68%); HISTORY (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (55%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (68%) WISCONSIN, USA (71%) ISRAEL (72%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



23 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 3034 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens. One of the largest collections of moving-image artifacts. Through Sunday, a Judy Garland film series, with screenings of "For Me and My Gal" (1942), directed by Busby Berkeley, today at 2 p.m.; "Easter Parade" (1948), directed by Charles Walters, tomorrow at 1 p.m.; "A Star Is Born" (1954), directed by George Cukor, tomorrow and Sunday at 3 p.m.; and "The Pirate" (1948), directed by Vincente Minnelli, Sunday at 1 p.m. Also screening: "Grand Illusion" (1939), directed by Jean Renoir, tonight at 7:30 and Sunday at 6:30 p.m., part of the "Repertory Nights" series. On view through November, "Tim Burton Drawings," an exhibition of more than 24 drawings, watercolors and sketches related to hisfilms. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and by appointment. Film and video showings are free with admission unless otherwise noted. Museum admission: $10; 65+ and students, $7.50; ages 5 to 18, $5; free for members and children 4 and younger and for everyone on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.; Friday evenings screenings are extra. Information: (718) 784-0077 or www.movingimage.us.

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. The recently reopened Arthur Ross Hall of Meteorites, with the 34-ton Ahnighito meteorite, the world's largest, on display. "Petra: Lost City of Stone," with objects from that ancient Jordanian city, as well as 19th-century drawings and prints; through July 6; timed tickets to the exhibition are $19; students and 60+, $16.50; children under 12, $13. "Vietnam: Journeys of Body, Mind and Spirit," an exhibition on Vietnamese life with photography, sculpture, clothing and other items; through March 7. "Seasons of Life and Land: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge," showing more than 40 large-format photographs by Subhankar Banerjee; through March 7. In the Imax Theater, "Volcanoes of the Deep Sea," documenting expeditions to the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and "India: Kingdom of the Tiger," a docudrama about a hunting expedition by Jim Corbett, an early-20th-century writer and conservationist. Tickets to one Imax feature, including museum admission, are $19; students and 60+, $12.50; children under 12, $10. General museum suggested admission: $12; students and 60+, $9; 12 and younger, $7; under 2, free. Combination ticket, including museum and Rose Center admission and the Hayden Planetarium space show: $22; students and 60+, $16.50; 12 and younger, $13; under 2, free. Museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., except the first Friday of most months, when the Rose Center is open until 8:45 p.m. for "Starry Nights." Information: amnh.org, (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200.

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY'S ROSE CENTER FOR EARTH AND SPACE, Central Park West at 81st Street. "Starry Nights: Fridays Under the Sphere," with cash bar, jazz and tapas on the first Friday of the month. Tonight, performances at 5:30 and 7 by the Winard Harper Sextet. Hours: daily, 10 a.m to 5:45 p.m., but open on Fridays until 8:45 p.m. Space shows run every half-hour all day. Suggested admission to the museum, which includes the Rose Center: $12; students and 60+, $9; 2 to 12, $7; under 2, free. Combined admission to the museum, the Rose Center and the Hayden Planetarium space show: $21; students and 60+, $15.50; 2 to 12, $12.50; under 2, free. Information: (212) 769-5100. Reservations: (212) 769-5200.

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY, at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 33 Liberty Street, Lower Manhattan. The society has the most extensive coin collection in North America. On view is the 1933 double eagle $20 gold coin, considered the most valuable coin in the world. "Full Circle: The Olympic Heritage in Coins and Medals," more than 180 objects from the eighth century B.C. to the present, on view through October. "Archaeologic News From the Holy Land: The Bet She'an Hoard," a display of Byzantine gold coins from a site in Israel, on view through May 16. "Drachmas, Doubloons and Dollars: The History of Money," an exhibition of currency from the society's permanent collection. Hours: Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 234-3130.

FRAUNCES TAVERN MUSEUM, 54 Pearl Street, second floor, Lower Manhattan. The museum, in a former tavern, is dedicated to the study and interpretation of early American history and culture. One of the period-room displays is the Long Room, the site of George Washington's Farewell Address. "Colonists, Revolutionaries, Builders: Freemasons in America," with material relating to Washington, Paul Revere, Benjamin Franklin and Lafayette; "Washington at War," with a look at his battle experiences; and "The Societies of the Sons of the Revolution," devoted to the patriotic deeds of the 28 state societies. Other permanent exhibitions are the Clinton Room, named for George Clinton, the first American-born governor of New York, and a re-creation of an early-19th-century private dining room. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., "Family Saturdays: An Almanac for the New Year" offers visitors a chance to make their own almanacs. Free with museum admission. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed Sundays and Mondays. Admission: $3; under 18 and 65+, $2; under 6, free. Information: (212) 425-1778.

MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. This preserved late-Federal brick house with a Greek Revival interior, once owned by Seabury Tredwell, a wealthy hardware dealer, was built in 1832. The house holds the original furniture, clothing and personal articles of the Tredwells, who lived there for nearly 100 years. Self-guided tours are available on weekdays, guided tours on Saturdays and Sundays. Current exhibitions: "The Tredwells: A Family Tree in Pictures," through Jan. 30; "The Changing Silhouette of Fashion: Six Decades of Tredwell Costumes," through Feb. 16. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; members and children under 12, free. Reservations and information: (212) 777-1089.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. The museum collects, preserves and presents material related to the city's history. "Harlem Lost and Found," the architectural history of the area from pre-Revolutionary years to World War I, with photographs, furniture and other items from the homes of noted residents, including Alexander Hamilton and Madame C. J. Walker; through Sunday. "Glass and Glamour: Steuben's Modern Moment, 1930-1960" captures a pivotal time in 20th-century design when Steuben Glass embraced the vocabulary of modernism and linked its image to the glamour of New York; through April 25. "Big and Green: Toward Sustainable Architecture in the 21st Century" explores large-scale development that is simultaneously energy-efficient, healthful for its inhabitants and economically viable; through Jan. 19. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for registered groups only; Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $4; families, $12. Information: (212) 534-1672.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other media, including drawings, posters and photographs. "A Celebration of George Balanchine: Selected Television Work," today through March 7. "Hello, I'm Johnny Cash," a screening series covering that country singer's career, in four parts; through Jan. 25, Part Four: "The Man in Black (1970-present)." Presented with a companion radio-listening series, "The Man in Black: Johnny Cash on Radio," through Feb. 1. Screenings Tuesdays through Sundays at 2 p.m., and Thursdays at 6 p.m. Also on display, "Backstageat CBS-TV's Chronoscope: A Portrait of the Post-World War II Era," an exhibition of photographs from 1951-55. Through January. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $8; children 12 and younger, $5. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN, Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. "The Language of Native American Baskets: From the Weaver's View," 200 baskets on view through Jan. 9, 2005. "Continuum: 12 Artists," through November. "Legends of Our Times: Native Ranching and Rodeo Life on the Plains and the Plateau," through March 7. Works by the artist Richard Ray Whitman, on view through Feb. 1. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 514-3700.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. "Recovery: The World Trade Center Recovery Operation at Fresh Kills," an exhibition of more than 50 photographs depicting the recovery of human remains, personal objects and material evidence from the collapse of the World Trade Center, found at the Fresh Kills Landfill in Staten Island from September 2001 to July 2002; through March 21. "The Birds of Central Park: Audubon's Watercolors," 431 watercolors by John James Audubon (1785-1851) for "The Birds of America" (1827-38); through Feb. 15. "Children at Risk: Protecting New York City's Youths, 1653-2003," paintings, prints, maps and documents from the society's collection as well as from those of the Children's Aid Society and the New York City Municipal Archives; through April 4. "Radical Hospitality," photographs, banners, posters and other items created in support of the rescue and recovery workers in Lower Manhattan after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11; through Sunday. "Ann Zane Shanks: Behind the Lens," photography exhibition; through Feb. 29. "Home Sewn: Three Centuries of Stitching History," through April 18. The Henry Luce III Center for the Study of American Culture is a permanent gallery on the fourth floor. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; students and 62+, $5; children 12 and under accompanied by an adult, free. Information: (212) 873-3400.

Zoo

BRONX ZOO, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham. "Holiday Lights," with animal-shaped lighted displays, strolling performers, storytelling, music and performances by the Wildlife Theater Players; through Sunday. Performances: $3. Daily, 5 to 9 p.m. Zoo admission: $10; children 2 to 12 and 65+, $7; under 2, free. A holiday train ride past some of the lighted displays is $2 for children 2 to 10. There will also be nighttime visits to Tiger Mountain, featuring discussions with the tiger handlers nightly at 6 and 8. Zoo hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. General admission through Sunday, $10; children 2 to 12 and ages 65+, $7; children under 2, free; beginning Monday, $8 and $6. Parking: $7. Information: (718) 367-1010.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. "Nature's Celebration," a display of mixed-media pieces by Deborah Schenck; through Sunday. "Twigs, Cones and Berries," a seasonal display, through Sunday. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 65+, $3; under 16, free; free for everyone all day Tuesdays and on Saturdays from 10 a.m. to noon. Information: (718) 623-7200; www.bbg.org.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, BedfordPark, the Bronx. Includes 48 gardens and plant collections. Holiday displays featuring the Train Show and the Glasshouse Winter Flower Show in the Conservatory, and the "Gingerbread Extravaganza" in the Everett Children's Adventure Garden. Through Jan. 11. Garden hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Garden grounds admission: $6; 62+, $3; students, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Holiday combination ticket, which includes all admissions and a tram tour: $13; 62+ and students, $11; children 2 to 12, $5; under 2, free. Forest tours, Saturdays and Sundays at noon. Tram tours, daily, every 30 minutes. Highlights of the garden: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. Conservatory admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Grounds admission free on Wednesdays, and 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. Information: nybg.org; (718) 817-8700.

EVENTS

New York City

ROCKEFELLER CENTER CHRISTMAS TREE. The annual holiday display, on view through Wednesday.

WATSON ADVENTURES. Tomorrow at 3 p.m., "Museum of Natural Hysteria Scavenger Hunt," a scavenger hunt for adults inside the American Museum of Natural History. Fee: $20 plus museum admission (suggested $12 for adults). Meeting place and other information: (212) 726-1529.

GRAND CENTRAL HOLIDAY TRAIN SHOW, New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex at Grand Central Terminal. Includes a model of the terminal. Free. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Through Jan. 19. Information: (212) 878-0106.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. "Depression-Era Prints and Photographs From the W.P.A. and F.S.A.," an exhibition of more than 70 works by Dorothea Lange, Arthur Rothstein, John Collier and others, on view through Jan. 17. "Russia Engages the World, 1453-1825," books, manuscripts and other works on paper, on display through January. Free. Hours: Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed Sundays, Mondays and holidays. Free guided tours daily at 12:30 and 2:30 p.m. Exhibition information: (212) 869-8089; www.nypl.org.

WALKING TOURS

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Immigrant New York," a walk through the Jewish Lower East Side, Chinatown, Little Italy and what used to be called Little Germany, Little Ireland and Little Africa, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street, at City Hall Park. Sunday at 1 p.m., "Historic TriBeCa" explores the commercial and architectural history of the neighborhood, meeting at Bogardus Triangle, Chambers and Hudson Streets and West Broadway. Fee for each tour: $12; students and 63+, $10. Information: (212) 439-1090.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. Tomorrow at 4 p.m., "Lively Lenox Hill" stops at the Seventh Regiment Armory, Hunter College and the former residences of William Randolph Hearst and Danny Kaye. Meets at the northeast corner of 59th Street and Fifth Avenue, Manhattan. Sunday at 10 a.m., "Charming Carnegie Hall," with stops at Andrew Carnegie's former mansion, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and the former home of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Meets at the southeast corner of 86th Street and Fifth Avenue. Fee for each: $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Tomorrow at 6 p.m., "Pubs and Poltergeists" visits haunted taverns; meeting in front of the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, 487 Hudson Street, at Grove Street, West Village. Sunday at 2 p.m., "Stanford White: Splendor and Scandal," devoted to the life and work of that architect, beginning at the Washington Arch, Fifth Avenue and Waverly Place, Greenwich Village. Fee for each: $10. Information: (212) 969-8262 or streetsmartsny.com.

ALL POINTS TOURS. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., "World Trade Center Site: Ground Zero," with stops at the Winter Garden, St. Paul's Chapel and buildings under construction; meeting in front of the Stage Door Deli, northeast corner of Church and Vesey Streets, Lower Manhattan. Tomorrow at 4 p.m., a look at holiday train displays, as well as at decorations along Fifth Avenue, meeting in front of the New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex in Grand Central Terminal. Fee for each: $12; 60+, $10. Information: (718) 273-1813.

DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS. Today at 1:30 p.m., "Ghosts of the City," a Lower Manhattan walk following the paths of Alexander Hamilton, Edgar Allan Poe and others, meeting inside Blimpie's restaurant at 38 Park Row, between Spruce and Beekman Streets. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1:30 p.m., "Brooklyn Bridge Talk and Walk" discusses the Roebling family, instrumental in the building of the bridge, and the importance of that structure. Also meets outside Blimpie's. Fee for each: $15. Information: (888) 377-4455.

METRO TOUR SERVICE. Today through Sunday at 2 p.m., historic sites, landmarks and ethnic neighborhoods in Brooklyn in the Fort Greene, Clinton Hill and Brooklyn Heights neighborhoods. Sunday at 10 a.m., downtown Brooklyn, with a stop for gospel music. Both tours meet in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Fee for each: $25. Information: (718) 789-0430.

MAINLY MANHATTAN. "Architecture of 42nd Street," today at 1 p.m., meeting on the northeast corner of First Avenue and 43rd Street. Literary tour of Greenwich Village, tomorrow at noon, meeting at the Washington Arch. "Highlights of the West Side," Sunday at 1 p.m., meeting at the Lincoln Center fountain. Fee for each: $10. Reservations required: (212) 755-6199.

"GREENWICH VILLAGE LITERARY PUB CRAWL" combines readings with stops at bars that writers made famous. Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the White Horse Tavern, 567 Hudson Street, West Village. Sponsored by the New Ensemble Theater Company. Fee: $15; students and 55+, $12. Drinks not included. Reservations: (212) 613-5796.

FOODS OF NEW YORK. "Greenwich Village: Off the Beaten Path," a three-hour tour that combines walking with noshing. Today at 11 a.m.; tomorrow and Sunday at 10:30 a.m. Fee: $35, including food. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 239-1124.

"EXPLORING UNION SQUARE." Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the Lincoln statue at the north end of the square. Sponsored by the 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District and Quality Street Tours. Free. Information: (212) 591-1536.

NEW YORK CITY VACATION PACKAGES, a series of weekly tours of Lower Manhattan (Saturdays and Sundays at 9 a.m.) and the theater district (Saturdays at 10 a.m.). Each meets in the lobby of the Hotel Edison, 46th Street, between Broadway and Seventh Avenue. Fee for each: $15; children 2 to 12, $7.50. Information: (888) 692-8701.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WALKING TOUR -- The architect Stanford White inspires a stroll. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); FILM HISTORY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); HISTORY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (77%); EASTER SEASON (71%); WILDLIFE (65%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); THEATER (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (71%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (66%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (71%); JORDAN (53%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



24 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM PITTSBURGH; 
Years After Big Steel's Demise, a City Lost in Transition

BYLINE:  By James Dao

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
At the Carnegie Museum of Art, a series of paintings by Aaron H. Gorson capture what many people still consider the quintessential images of this city that industry built. A coal barge plies murky waters. A blast furnace scorches the dark heavens like a supernova. Smoke-belching stacks shroud the horizon in brown haze.
 But the paintings are a century old and the Pittsburgh they depict no longer exists. The big steel mills along the Monongahela River, save one, gasped their last breaths a decade ago. Shopping malls, gleaming office parks and upscale town houses have replaced some. Others lie vacant, the hulking skeletons of a dying species. 
 Call Pittsburgh Steel City these days, and many residents will take offense. Pittsburgh, they say, is now home to "clean industries" like bioengineering and robotics. The bleak Dickensian tableau of big steel is virtually gone. 
But so are most of the hand-dirtying, high-paying union jobs that once made steel the fiscal marrow in Pittsburgh's bones. And now the city is broke, relegated to junk-bond status. Despite layoffs and service cuts, Pittsburgh will face an $80 million budget gap in 2004 and needs to raise taxes, officials contend.
For residents, the crisis is a reminder that despite the city's efforts to remake itself in a postindustrial world, it has not quite replaced all those manufacturing jobs. This is a city lost in transition, rooted in steel but struggling to be reborn as something higher tech and less gritty.
"We're a tale of two cities," Mayor Tom Murphy said. "We've had over the last nine years an unprecedented level of development. On the other hand, the underlying financial structure reflects a city that doesn't exist anymore."
During those years, the city underwent a striking face lift, building new football and baseball stadiums along the Allegheny River and a new convention center downtown. And shoppers now browse upscale shops at the Waterfront Mall on the site of the former Homestead steel plant, where union workers battled Pinkerton guards a century ago.
Yet in a striking indication that Pittsburgh is striving to move beyond its past without completely forgetting it, the developers left 12 towering smokestacks that are brilliantly lighted at night adjacent to the mall's movie complex. 
"Schizophrenia might be the right word for what we are going through," said Frank Giarratani, director of the Center for Industry Studies at the University of Pittsburgh. "We are a steel city. But people don't know why they think that anymore, except for the history."
The immediate causes of Pittsburgh's fiscal crisis are hotly debated here and in Harrisburg, the state capital. Mr. Murphy points to what he calls an archaic tax structure and weak national economy. His critics say excessive borrowing and overly generous labor contracts are to blame.
To relieve the budget crunch, Mayor Murphy has closed recreation centers and public pools and reduced street cleaning, rodent control, police patrols and bus service. And, next year's marathon has been canceled. 
Mr. Murphy, a Democrat, has asked the state to designate Pittsburgh "distressed" under a law that would give the city expanded taxing powers, including on commuters. Gov. Edward G. Rendell, also a Democrat, seems inclined to support the request, but many legislators, including some Democrats, contend that the designation would only stigmatize Pittsburgh.
"It's frustrating to many of us, because Pittsburgh has become a dynamic region," said State Representative Jeffrey E. Habay, a Republican from Allegheny County. "We've come through the era of big seel, and it's been difficult, but we've stabilized our job base. We're not fiscally distressed, we're fiscally mismanaged."
Experts say that while a mixture of outdated taxes and poor management precipitated the current crisis the region's long-term economic health has been shaky for some time, largely because of those silent mills. From 1974, a peak year for steel employment, to 2002, the industry hemorrhaged more than 75,000 jobs in the Pittsburgh region, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the same period, the city shrank to 334,000 residents, from 520,000, leaving it with roughly the same population as a century ago.
Shrinking population has meant a shrinking tax base. Today, 40 percent of the city's real estate is tax exempt, owned by nonprofit churches, universities and hospitals. Two-thirds of its 300,000 workers live in the suburbs, subject to a small $10 annual commuter tax that was set more than 30 years ago. And half of its corporations are exempt from the local business tax.
"The city puffed itself up in the 1990's and said, 'We're not a steel town, we're an education town, a health-care town, a high-tech town,' " said James D. English, the international secretary-treasurer of the United Steelworkers of America, which has its headquarters here. "But from my perspective, the city's problems today are related to the absence of those good-paying manufacturing jobs."
Muhammad Hafiz, 34, says he has been hurt by the passing of those mill jobs. His father worked in steel, and Mr. Hafiz assumed he would as well. But a union job never materialized, and today he hawks newspapers on the street. 
"We used to call Cleveland the Mistake by the Lake," Mr. Hafiz said wistfully. "But no more. I'm thinking of going there myself."
Still, some people are coming back, drawn by the growing number of high-tech start-up companies and a rich pool of technological expertise centered on the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University. Aldo Zini is one. A Pittsburgh native, Mr. Zini returned from California three years ago to help create a company, Aethon Inc., that makes robots that transport supplies from hospital storage rooms to nursing stations. It has only 16 employees but expects to expand. 
"I was drawn back to this area because of the talent, the things going on here," Mr. Zini said. 
He is emblematic of a generational divide that cuts through southwestern Pennsylvania, splitting residents who worked in the mills from those who grew up believing there was no future in steel.
That divide was underscored in the contrasting reactions to President Bush's decision this fall to lift tariffs on imported steel. The tens of thousands of retired steelworkers in the region who have mortgages, pensions and health insurance paid for by steel responded with outrage, vowing political retaliation. But many of the city's newer industries said they might benefit from the lower cost of imported steel. And younger people did not seem to care.
Indeed, for younger residents, there have been real benefits to steel's demise. They worry about the weak job market, which has contributed to what the Census Bureau recently called a brain drain of college graduates from the region. But many prefer the gleaming new Pittsburgh to the polluted industrial landscape of old. They note that when the mills closed and the coal-fired haze dissipated, people began to appreciate Pittsburgh's charms: its San Francisco-like hills, its necklace of muscularly elegant bridges and its fine skyline. They point out that the city produced Andy Warhol..
"Pittsburgh has really suffered under its image as an old steel town," said Matthew Burger, president of the Pittsburgh Urban Magnet Project, an organization of young professionals. "I still find it stunning when I hear people say: 'Pittsburgh is an old community, a mill town, it's all about steel, pollution and dirty water and skies.' It couldn't be more false."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A pedestrian near the Terminal Buildings, home to galleries and studios, in Pittsburgh.; Across from the shining skyline of today, the rusty remains of Pittsburgh's past line the Monongahela River. (Photographs by Justin Merriman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); RETAILERS (75%); MAYORS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); TAX INCREASES (71%); ROBOTICS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); BASEBALL (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); LAYOFFS (53%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



25 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: Putin vs. the Jailed Tycoon: Defining Russia's New Rules 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN and ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
The collision between Russia's most powerful politician, President VladimirV. Putin, and its richest businessman, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, had been brewing for months when Mr. Khodorkovsky took the step that more than any other landed him in prison -- trying to sell a major stake in his oil company, Yukos, to ExxonMobil.
 As recounted by associates and analysts, Mr. Khodorkovsky failed to consult the Kremlin adequately about a deal that would cede substantial control over a strategic Russian resource to a foreign company, and an American one at that. 
 It was no small matter to the Kremlin. Russia's oil boom has enhanced Mr. Putin's standing, underpinning his program for economic stability. Moreover, Russian oil has given the Kremlin crucial diplomatic and economic leverage with an America eager to develop oil supplies outside the Middle East, leverage Mr. Putin is unwilling to cede. 
Mr. Khodorkovsky's pursuit of an ExxonMobil deal, said a senior Russian official who requested anonymity, was a "catalyzing event" for the Kremlin.
The tycoon's trial, which the government is no hurry to begin, is likely to open a Pandora's box of issues from the 1990's, when the Kremlin, businessmen, organized crime and huge sums of money intersected in the race to privatize Russia's economy.
In February, Mr. Putin had summoned Mr. Khodorkovsky and other tycoons who made financial killings in the early post-Soviet years to a meeting, telling them he wanted to eliminate "the very foundation of corruption," by establishing "a civilized partnership between business and state."
His message was clear: businessmen had to follow new rules, rules that included economic order and a respect for government power.
Mr. Khodorkovsky failed to heed that message and his arrest in October on murky fraud charges has set off an international debate about Russia's economic and political course. The case also has renewed questions about civil rights in a country led by a former K.G.B. official intent on redefining the government's relations with an elite class of business owners who are known as oligarchs.
Yukos has routinely represented the showdown in political terms, emphasizing Mr. Khodorkovsky's politicking as a threat to Kremlin hegemony. Yet many analysts say the conflict really revolves around economic control in a country still struggling for its post-Soviet identity.
"To the extent that the media debate focuses on politics, Yukos will be quite happy with that," said Stephen M. Kotkin, head of the Russian Studies Program at Princeton University. "Because I think a lot of this is about money and the future economic direction of the country." 
Mr. Khodorkovsky's legal team has a different perspective, and trial date will hinge in part on how quickly they can digest 45,000 pages of evidence and criminal accusations that they vehemently dispute.
"Start with the proposition that it's a politically motivated prosecution," said John Pappalardo, an American lawyer representing Mr. Khodorkovsky. "He's in jail because he had the temerity to challenge the existing Russian government."
Mr. Khodorkovsky's "sins are political, they are not economic," Mr. Pappalardo added.

A Rapid Rise
Mr. Khodorkovsky built his oil fortune on Kremlin connections, smarts and cold-blooded determination, beginning with his purchase of Yukos from the state in a controversial auction in 1995 -- all during a time when Mr. Putin toiled in relative obscurity as a nondescript government aide in St. Petersburg.
Mr. Khodorkovsky often ran roughshod over investors and competitors, but later spruced up Yukos's operations and books, endearing him to bankers and to foreign companies interested in Russian oil. Yukos extracted oil at a much headier pace than some competitors, exploiting a surge in global oil prices that turned Mr. Khodorkovsky into a billionaire in a few years.
He then began confronting Mr. Putin, newly installed as Russia's president, more directly and persistently. He spoke out on political matters and spent mightily on public relations efforts in the West to burnish his image as a reformer -- moves that drew the ire of Mr. Putin and others.
"It's very strange that someone with that kind of background starts preaching sainthood," said Boris G. Fyodorov, co-founder of a Moscow investment bank and a former deputy prime minister. "First, you should sell your interests in business and then preach. You don't become a billionaire in three years just by being bright."
Mr. Khodorkovsky pursued his oil interests single-mindedly. In April, he announced a merger agreement with Sibneft, another major Russian oil company, which would have made Yukos the largest company in Russia and an even more powerful force in Mr. Putin's universe.
At about that time, Russian intelligence and law enforcement agencies stepped up their investigations of Mr. Khodorkovsky's finances, but he did not retreat.
Unlike Mr. Putin, he aligned himself publicly with American policy goals in Iraq. He also independently pursued an agreement with the Chinese to build an oil pipeline to China, even though the Kremlin had vetoed a Chinese effort to buy a Russian energy concern last year. 
In written responses to questions, Yukos initially contested that oil or the Chinese pipeline led to the clash.
"Mr. Khodorkovsky has never indicated that he thought the current situation had anything to do with oil policy issues," wrote Hugo Erikssen, a Yukos spokesman. "Decisions on whether or not to build pipelines are taken by the government."
Meanwhile, Yukos spread its financial support among a variety of political parties that promoted the company's business interests. The objective, said a recent report by a local brokerage firm, Sovlink Securities, was to increase Yukos's parliamentary influence and force Mr. Putin "to negotiate with them on an equal-to-equal basis."
Mr. Khodorkovsky also pursued the sale of his Yukos shares to ExxonMobil. Russia opened the door to foreign investment in February when, with full Kremlin assent, British Petroleum acquired 50 percent of a Russian oil concern, TNK. But political analysts say Mr. Putin had a more jaundiced view of international mergers when it came to Mr. Khodorkovsky.
Yukos declined to comment directly on the ExxonMobil talks. But Mr. Erikssen noted in an e-mail message that in "Russia, any big deal (like the sale of a stake in an oil company to a foreign entity) is supposed to need political support and everybody works on that assumption."
But Mr. Putin appears to have felt that there was little Kremlin involvement in the putative deal.
"We favor foreign capital involvement in Russia's economy," Mr. Putin told The New York Times in an interview on Oct. 4. "As regards purchasing part of the Yukos company, again this is a corporate matter, but once again we are talking about a possible major deal here, and I think it would be the right thing to do to have preliminary consultations with the Russian government."
Three weeks later, government security agents arrested Mr. Khodorkovsky and hauled him off to jail.

The Accusations
Mr. Khodorkovsky's financial maneuvers, not his political dealings, lie at the heart of the criminal accusations against him. Mr. Khodorkovsky's lawyers say they cannot address the financial accusations specifically, because the case appears to have broadened substantially and because the process is skewed against them. Instead, they have circulated an outline of the human rights and legal abuses they say have been directed at Mr. Khodorkovsky and two business associates.
An analysis of some of the accusations offers a window onto privatizations of the 1990's that enriched a few tycoons who were willing to exploit Soviet-era laws or maneuver in ill-defined areas. Mr. Fyodorov, the former deputy prime minister, said, "99.9 percent of the business class in Russia never did anything as scandalous as what the oligarchs did." 
Russian prosecutors say that in 1994 Mr. Khodorkovsky fraudulently obtained Apatit, a government-owned company that was one of the world's leading producers of fertilizer. Only four bidders competed for a 20 percent stake in the company and all were fronts for Mr. Khodorkovsky, prosecutors say. The highest bidder made a $1 billion offer but then dropped out. The sale went to the lowest bidder, say prosecutors, with an offer of only $283 million in cash and investments.
Prosecutors say Mr. Khodorkovsky sold Apatit products to his own offshore companies at low prices from 2000 to 2002. They later resold it at full price, escaping considerable Russian taxes -- a common practice in privatization's heyday known as transfer pricing. Prosecutors say the moves cut profits by roughly $200 million. But in a country with complex tax rates imposed by corrupt officials, evading taxes was a common practice.
Yet another accusation carries more weight with Moscow's business community. Prosecutors say Mr. Khodorkovsky and his colleagues simply decided not to pay the bulk of their $283 million purchase price once they got their hands on the Apatit stake and asserted control over the company.
"Maybe everybody did transfer pricing, but not everyone bought companies and didn't pay for them," said William Browder, a veteran money manager in Moscow. "There's a whole order of magnitude between them."
While some members of Mr. Khodorkovsky's camp acknowledge that the bid was never paid, they argue that the Apatit auction entailed bribes and perks for regional bureaucrats -- and that had Mr. Khodorkovsky paid the full sum, it would have been siphoned out of Apatit before he took control. 
They also say the Russian authorities already reached an accord with Mr. Khodorkovsky and others last year on the Apatit sale, requiring one of Mr. Khodorkovsky's companies to pay about $15 million to settle earlier civil charges invalidating the sale.
Mr. Khodorkovsky and another Yukos executive are also accused of cheating the state out of $556 million in taxes from 1999 to 2000. But illegality may be difficult to demonstrate, since many regions in post-Soviet Russia offered robust tax breaks to attract investors. Companies put their headquarters in those zones to take advantage of the concessions.
"On behalf of Mr. Khodorkovsky, we look forward to an open trial and the opportunity that will afford to address these allegations," said Mr. Pappalardo, his lawyer.

Battle Lines Are Drawn
If convicted, Mr. Khodorkovsky faces up to 10 years in prison. He may lose his Yukos stake, setting a precedent for state seizure of property in the post-Soviet era. Meanwhile, the arrest of one of the boldest and most defiant oligarchs has cowed his peers into a newfound respect for Mr. Putin.
"Business, by definition, cannot be in opposition to the authorities," the metals tycoon Vladimir O. Potanin said. 
"I am not worried that Putin himself will start attacking other oligarchs, but I am worried that either my competitors or some overzealous bureaucrat will start a provocation," Mr. Potanin said. "Russia is like a dry forest on a hot day. One match and a gust of wind are enough to set it ablaze."
Although Yukos officials repeatedly portrayed the battle between Mr. Khodorkovsky and Mr. Putin as revolving around political reform, a senior Yukos official recently reversed the company line and acknowledged that the primary reason for the dispute was economic.
For his part, Mr. Putin has promised there will be no return to the economic past or an unraveling of the privatization process. But some of his statements continue to rattle Moscow's business community.
"Yes, laws were complex and intricate, but it was quite possible to respect them," Mr. Putin said in a speech to businessmen on Dec. 23. "Those who wanted to respect them did so. Those who were involved in deliberate fraud put themselves in more favorable conditions than those who played by the rules. The latter may not have earned so much money, but they now sleep well."
Mr. Khodorkovsky's case is nominally supervised by the Russian prosecutor general's office. But it is commonly assumed in Moscow that the Federal Security Bureau, the successor to the Soviet Union's K.G.B, is overseeing the case. In an interview, Sergei Ignatchenko, an F.S.B. spokesman, said his agency had only assisted in the inquiry at the prosecutor general's request. The prosecutor general's office declined an interview request.
Mr. Putin's defenders say he is righting an unwieldy ship of state and a corrupt business class in the name of stability. "Putin's aim is to build a prosperous, respected Russia on the basis of democratic institutions (albeit managed!), the rule of law, and a market economy," wrote Bernard Sucher, an executive with Alfa Bank, a local investment house, in a recent note to clients.
Others are more wary.
"What is order in the economy?" asked Sergei Buntman, co-founder of Ekho Moskvy, a radio station. "Perhaps they're quite sincere in the reforms, but perhaps they don't have a clear image of democracy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chief executive of Yukos, Russia's largest oil firm, was escorted to a hearing on Dec. 23. He is facing fraud charges in connection with his dealings while at the helm of Yukos. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); ARRESTS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



26 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Cabbies Fear Fare Increase Will Hurt More Than It Helps 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
A proposal to expand New York City's fleet of yellow cabs and increase fares by 25 percent received a chilly welcome yesterday from one of the groups it was intended to assist -- taxi drivers.
 A study commissioned by the city and released on Wednesday recommended adding 900 yellow cabs to the current fleet of 12,187 -- a move that would allow the city to raise tens of millions of dollars by selling new medallions. The study also suggested increasing fares by about 25 percent, to ease the fears of cab owners concerned that more competition could leave the market oversaturated and drive down the value of the medallions, currently around $225,000 each. 
 But the proposal -- which has not yet been approved by the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission -- has not eased the worries of cabdrivers, who fear that increased competition and fewer passengers will decrease their earnings. 
"If the fares go up, business is going to go down," said Maninder Singh, who has driven a taxi for the past seven years. "And if there's 900 more cabs, business is going to go down. The way things are now, if you work, you can make money. But what will happen when there are fewer riders and more taxis?"
More than 500,000 people take yellow cabs each day in New York, and for years city residents have complained that a shortage of taxis has led to intolerable waits, especially during rush hours and inclement weather.
At taxi stands and on city streets, many cab riders reacted to the proposal yesterday with a predictable mix of emotions: they eagerly awaited the additional cabs but winced at the thought of paying 25 percent more. The base fare for a cab ride is $2, and each additional one-fifth of a mile costs 30 cents. Between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m., a night surcharge of 50 cents is added. 
Although the languid pace of New Year's Day made cabs relatively easy to find in Manhattan yesterday, many people said they thought that the expansion of the fleet was long overdue.
Gerald Tam, 24, of Chelsea, said he only traveled by cab at night and often had a difficult time finding one. If the city approves the fare increase, however, Mr. Tam said he would probably walk or take the subway more often.
"The best way to see the city is on foot anyway," he said, "so I guess I'll just walk more."
Others said they considered the fare increase inevitable and the plan a fair tradeoff.
Christopher Bartle, who lives on the Upper East Side and works in Midtown, said he was willing to pay higher fares if he could be certain that it would shorten his wait for a cab during rush hour.
"You just hope they add enough cabs to make a difference," he said. "People promise you things, but you're never quite sure whether they'll deliver."
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has indicated his support for increasing the size of the fleet, and both the City Council and the state have given their approval. The study was done by an engineering firm, Urbitran Associates, and determined that the 900 cabs could be added over the next three years without posing major traffic or environmental problems.
But cabdrivers, who have asked for a fare increase of 50 percent, said the study weighed the economic impact on medallion owners without considering how the proposal would affect drivers' wages. New York cab fares are lower than in many other large cities and have not been increased since March 1996.
"The city wants to raise money without raising taxes," said Bhairavi Desai, director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance. "But the mayor shouldn't balance his budget on the backs of taxi drivers, who work 70 hours a week."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maninder Singh -- Cabby for seven years "If the fares go up, business is going to go down. If there's 900 more cabs, business is going to go down."; Gerald Tam -- Opposes higher taxi fares "The best way to see the city is on foot anyway, so I guess I'll just walk more." (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CITIES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



27 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Outlook; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
Measuring The Market

 BODY:
 Last year, almost everything went up in the stock market, ending a string of three years in which the major averages declined each year. Of the 8,180 issues -- common stocks, preferred stocks, real estate investment trusts, closed-end funds, exchange traded funds and everything else -- traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market, 87 percent of them rose in 2003, after a year in which only 41 percent gained.

GRAPHIC: Charts Graph tracks all issues traded in '03 on the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange (PERCENT OF ISSUES UP; PERCENT OF ISSUES DOWN) since 1990. Many Stocks Hit New HighsWhile the major stock market averages are well below their peaks, many stocks in them -- particularly smaller companies and those that did not soar in the final run before the 2000 top -- are now higher than they were when the averages topped out in 2000. Russell 2000DATE OF INDEX PEAK: March 9, '00CHANGE SINCE PEAK: -8.1%PERCENTAGE OF STOCKS HIGHER THAN AT PEAK*: 64.7% S. & P. 500DATE OF INDEX PEAK: March 24, '00CHANGE SINCE PEAK: -27.2PERCENTAGE OF STOCKS HIGHER THAN AT PEAK*: 62.9 S. & P. 100DATE OF INDEX PEAK: March 24, '00CHANGE SINCE PEAK: -33.1PERCENTAGE OF STOCKS HIGHER THAN AT PEAK*: 47.0 Nasdaq 100DATE OF INDEX PEAK: March 27, '00CHANGE SINCE PEAK: -68.8PERCENTAGE OF STOCKS HIGHER THAN AT PEAK*: 45.9 Dow IndustrialsDATE OF INDEX PEAK: Jan. 14, '00CHANGE SINCE PEAK: -15.6PERCENTAGE OF STOCKS HIGHER THAN AT PEAK*: 20.0 *Percentage covers stocks now in the index for which prices are available on date market peaked. Some were not in the index in 2000. Volatility DeclinesFor pure excitement -- at least as measured by big swings in stock prices -- the year got more boring as it went on. In the final quarter, only 16 percent of the sessions showed gains or losses of at least 1 percent in the S.&P. 500, the lowest volatility for a quarter since 1996. KEY:4% and greater change3% to 3.99% change2% to 2.99% change1% to 1.99% change Graph tracks S. & P. 500 volatility since 1996. Intel Leads Dow GainersOf the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average, 25 rose last year, led by Intel. But it is the heavy industry stocks that are now higher than they were at their peaks in the bull market that ended in 2000. Dow Jones' companies Intel'03 CHANGE: +105.8%CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -57.7% Caterpillar'03 CHANGE: +81.6CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: +25.0 Alcoa'03 CHANGE: +66.8CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -12.9 McDonald's'03 CHANGE: +54.4CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -49.9 JP Morgan'03 CHANGE: +53.0CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -45.3 United Technologies'03 CHANGE: +53.0CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: +18.8 Home Depot'03 CHANGE: +47.8CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -49.3 General Motors'03 CHANGE: +44.9CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -43.6 Disney'03 CHANGE: +43.0CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -46.8 Honeywell'03 CHANGE: +39.3CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -51.3 Citigroup*'03 CHANGE: +37.9CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -12.0 3M'03 CHANGE: +37.9CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: +38.3 American Express'03 CHANGE: +36.4CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -23.4 Altria'03 CHANGE: +34.3CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -2.1 Hewlett Packard'03 CHANGE: +32.3CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -66.3 Boeing'03 CHANGE: +27.7CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACHSTOCK: -40.6 General Electric'03 CHANGE: +27.2CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -48.8 International Paper'03 CHANGE: +23.3CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -28.2 IBM'03 CHANGE: +19.6CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -33.4 Exxon-Mobil'03 CHANGE: +17.3CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -14.1 Procter & Gamble'03 CHANGE: +16.2CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -15.0 Coca-Cola'03 CHANGE: +15.8CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -28.4 duPont'03 CHANGE: +8.2CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -39.0 Microsoft'03 CHANGE: +5.9CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -54.4 Wal-mart'03 CHANGE: +5.0CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -24.5 Johnson & Johnson'03 CHANGE: -3.8CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -3.3 SBC'03 CHANGE: -3.8CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -56.5 Merck*'03 CHANGE: -13.8CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -49.5 AT&T+'03 CHANGE: -22.3CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -80.1 Eastman Kodak'03 CHANGE: -26.7CHANGE FROM '99-'00 PEAK OF EACH STOCK: -68.1 * Change for 2003 and from 1999-2000 high adjusted for spinoff.+ Change from 1999-2000 high adjusted for spinoff. Sectors RiseWithin the S.&P. 500, all 10 economic sectors showed gains, led by information technology. But that sector remains far below its level on the date the index peaked in 2000. S. & P. 500 sectors Information technology2003 RETURN: +46.6%CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: -67.1% Consumer discretionary2003 RETURN: +36.1CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: -12.9 Materials2003 RETURN: +34.8CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: +21.2 Industrials2003 RETURN: +29.7CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: -8.4 Financials2003 RETURN: +27.9CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: +13.6 Energy2003 RETURN: +22.4CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: +7.1 Utilities2003 RETURN: +21.1CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: -19.9 Health care2003 RETURN: +13.3CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: +9.2 Consumer staples2003 RETURN: +9.2CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: +34.2 Telecommunication services2003 RETURN: +3.3CHANGE FROM MARCH 24, '00: -64.8 (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Standard & Poor's; The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (87%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (87%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); BONDS (84%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



28 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
After Rout, Bond Traders Are 'Playing Defense'

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
IT will be a long time before bond traders forget last year's sudden bond market rout. And there could be an encore this year.
 From mid-June to the end of July, the yield on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note surged 1.30 percentage points, to 4.41 percent from a 45-year low of 3.11 percent. Investors sold in anticipation of rising interest rates as the economy rebounded and the stock market rallied. 
 That violent sell-off made July the worst month for the Treasury market since February 1980. The 4.2 percent loss in Treasuries alone was worse than any entire year for the whole investment-grade fixed-income market in at least 30 years.
 Even high-yield junk bonds, which finished 2003 with their second-best year ever, after 1991, had a miserable July, as the total return for the sector fell 1.4 percent. 
 Surprisingly, the investment-grade fixed-income market still managed to post a total return of 4.1 percent last year, despite July, as repeated promises by Federal Reserve policy makers to keep their benchmark short-term interest rate low for "a considerable period" helped pull down rates. The 10-year yield ended the year at 4.25 percent, well below the 2003 high of 4.60 percent at the beginning of September.
 But the return for junk bonds was stunning, and lower-rated investment-grade bonds did not do badly at all, showing that taking on some added risk was the way to survive in the bond market last year. 
 The 28.1 percent total return for junk bonds was only surpassed by the 39.2 percent of 1991, while lower-rated investment-grade corporate bonds returned 11.5 percent. The gain in total return came mostly from increases in the prices of these bonds as the rebound of the economy improved the credit outlook for the companies issuing them. 
 The small overall gain, however, was well below bonds' performance of the previous three years when the market outperformed stocks and posted an average annual total return of just over 10 percent.
 And with the Federal Reserve expected by many to begin raising rates this year, 2004 could be even tougher than 2003 for bonds, especially for Treasuries, strategists and money managers say.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury could increase more than a full percentage point, which would be its biggest annual rise since 1999, the last negative year for the bond market over all. The market lost 1 percent that year, with the Treasury market losing 2.4 percent while investment-grade corporate bonds lost 1.9 percent, according to Merrill Lynch bond indexes.
 But the loss this year could be even larger because interest rates earned on Treasuries and other investment-grade bonds are much lower than they were in 1999. So any losses from price declines will be eating into a much smaller yield.
 This year "could look like 1994 in the bond market," said Thomas H. Atteberry, assistant portfolio manager of the FPA New Income fund. That was the last year the Federal Reserve was raising interest rates, and the overall market's loss, excluding junk bonds, was 2.8 percent.
 David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said, "The risk is that you could have another sharp correction in interest rates -- like last year -- the way the market is behaving." 
 THIS is the darker of forecasts, and the returns are based on indexes for the overall market that cannot be adjusted the way an individual investor or a money manager can alter his or her portfolio to reduce losses. But it shows how painful 2004 could be.
 Joseph P. Deane, a bond portfolio manager at Citigroup Asset Management, said, "We are playing defense." He added that he had a lot of cash on the sidelines and had been hedging with bond futures to provide some "downside protection."
 Bond prices, especially those of Treasuries, will be driven lower, analysts say, as interest rates rise, first in response to growth and then as traders react to the growing federal budget deficit, which some analysts now predict will reach $500 billion this year.
 Then the Federal Reserve is expected to begin raising its short-term interest rate benchmark. Exactly when is being hotly debated. Some forecasters expect a move by midyear, while others do not see it until near the end of the year, and a few forecasters see no rate increase until 2005. In the end, the timing will depend on how fast the economy grows, how fast new jobs are created and when inflationary pressures rise -- all in a presidential election year.
 By the end of the year, in some forecasts, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note could be up to 5.6 percent. The fed funds rate in some forecasts will climb by one percentage point, to 2 percent. 
 So investors will have to be picky and will have to take on risk to have a chance for returns better than those of the overall market. 
 The places to be, many analysts say, are high-yield junk bonds and lower-rated investment-grade corporate bonds -- just like last year. The returns will not be as good as last year, they say, but the prices of these bonds are likely to decline less than those of higher-quality bonds because, as interest rates rise, a growing economy would improve the issuers' credit quality. In addition, the higher yields on these bonds, some in double digits, would be a nice cushion for any price decline.
 Kingman D. Penniman, president of KDP Investment Advisors, predicted that junk bond returns would be relatively attractive but less than a third of what they were last year, averaging about 8 percent to 9 percent for the entire market. "I don't think a 9 percent return is bad," he said, "especially if the return for the whole market could be negative."
 Mr. Atteberry's approach is to keep the maturities of all his investments as short as possible, thereby making them less vulnerable to a rise in interest rates. The average maturity for his $1.1 billion portfolio is down to two years. About 30 percent of the portfolio is in cash, ready to invest to earn the new higher yields once bond prices have dropped and interest rates have moved up.
 Mary J. Miller, an assistant director of T. Rowe Price's fixed-income group, said the best she could predict for the bond market this year was "modestly positive returns, but lower than 2003." She added, "I wouldn't recommend jumping into the market right now."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "As Bonds Shift, Junk Stars"After outperforming stocks for three years, the bond market managed only a small return last year. But high-yield, or junk, bonds had their second-best year ever. Graphs track Merrill Lynch bond indexes' total returns (Mortgage, Corporate, U.S. Treasury, and High-Yield) since 2000. 10-year treasury yieldThe yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which hit a 45-year low of 3.11 percent on June 13, has been rising and market participants expect the rise to continue into 2004. Graph tracks 10-year treasury yield since 2000. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



29 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
Industrial Commodities, Gold Climb

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
INDUSTRIAL commodity prices are surging, lifted by the rebound of the global economy. Gold is also a highflier, helped some by stronger economies but more by the fall in the value of the dollar.
 Industrial commodity prices, which rose 22.1 percent last year, are within striking distance of their post-World War II high reached in 1995. Gold, up 19.5 percent, to $416.10 an ounce, went over $400 in December for the first time in more than seven and a half years. 
 Industrial commodities -- which are as varied as copper, tin, steel, crude oil, rubber and plywood -- had their fifth-biggest annual gain as measured by the Journal of Commerce-Economic Cycle Research Institute index, which began in 1949. This index, which includes 18 industrial commodities, began its current rally with a 15.9 percent increase in 2002, after falling in 15 of the previous 21 years.
 Gold had its third consecutive annual gain in 2003, the first such broad rally since the late 1980's. Since the end of 2000, the price of an ounce of gold has climbed 52.1 percent. 
 Global economic growth is forecast to pick up this year and the dollar to head even lower; consequently, industrial prices are expected to hit a new peak, while $400 could become a floor for gold rather than a tough-to-maintain high.
 China could play a pivotal role in each of these forecasts. Analysts say that China was the biggest customer for industrial commodities as its economy grew at an expected annual rate of 7 percent to 8 percent last year. The key to demand is whether that pace continues. 
 The gold price could move higher if China decides to loosen its currency peg to the dollar, because that could allow the value of the dollar to fall still lower. In addition, China appears to be moving toward allowing individuals to own and trade gold, a change that could easily increase demand and lift the price.
 But the gain in commodity prices does not mean the industrial economy in the United States is booming. Nor does the higher cost of nickel, aluminum and gold mean that inflation is threatening.
 Instead, analysts say, the industrial price rise results more from lost capacity for mining, refining and transporting many commodities. That occurred because investment was curtailed after the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and then again during the eight-month recession that ended in November 2001. So there is not enough supply to meet the rising demand as the United States and Asian economies, led by China, continue to grow.
 CAPACITY for industrial commodity production and transportation "is well below trend on where it would be in a normal cycle," said Steve Strongin, director for commodities research at Goldman Sachs, so it took "much less added global demand to tighten these markets."
Even if China's growth slows this year, Mr. Strongin said, commodity prices will not be undermined because supplies and transportation capacity will remain tight.
 The American manufacturing sector, meanwhile, is rebounding but not quickly. This sector grew for the five months through November, according to the Institute for Supply Management. But there has been no job recovery; through November the monthly string of consecutive layoffs stood at 40. 
 Anirvan Banerji, director for research at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York, said that the surge in commodity prices resulted mainly from growth in manufacturing abroad, especially in China. He pointed to one obscure piece of data in the most recent United States manufacturing report as evidence: The price of corrugated boxes has fallen for nine consecutive months, showing that there is not a strong American demand for cartons for shipping newly made goods.
 As for gold, last year's rally followed the course of the falling dollar, rather than reflecting rising expectations for inflation. As the dollar fell over the year -- 16.5 percent against the euro and 9.6 percent against the yen -- the price of gold rose.
 While the rallies in industrial commodities and gold are expected to continue this year, they may not be so strong. And although a falling dollar and rising industrial commodity prices can increase inflationary pressures, many economists, both private and at the Federal Reserve, do not see a surge in inflation on the horizon. Mr. Strongin warned that in the next 12 to 18 months, there should be a pause in the industrial commodity rally as buyers readjust to higher prices, but the move higher should resume. And, he added, "the second leg of a commodity rally is better than the first." 
 Gold is likely to continue to follow the dollar. This means it could rise all year. But some forecasters predict that the dollar will rebound later this year, which could rein in gold prices for a while.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Moving Up"An index representing prices of industrial commoditites is approaching its post-World War II high of 109.65, while gold is trading at more than $400 an ounce for the first time in more than seven and a half years. Industrial commodities indexThe Journal of Commerce-Economic Cycle Research Institute index of 18 industrial commodities. Graph tracks Industrial commodities index since 2000.2003: 102.5 Graph tracks gold for delivery for the next month since 2000.2003: $416.10 a troy ounce (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TIN MARKETS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); BONDS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOLD 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



30 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
As the Dollar Weakens, Analysts Hope It Will Avoid a Sudden Plunge

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE dollar plunged against most of the world's currencies in 2003, putting in its third-worst performance since it began trading freely in the 1970's. It was the dollar's second consecutive annual decline, and many forecasters see a further weakening this year.
 If contained, a decline in 2004 would generally be good for American business and for Americans investing abroad. But a sudden plunge of many percentage points, which some analysts say is possible, could undermine financial markets here and abroad. 
 Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Citigroup, expects the dollar to drop further early in the year and then rebound, ending 2004 up more than 6 percent against the euro, which he predicts will be around $1.18.
 But he warns that the dollar's recovery could be short-lived. "The trend is there for a weaker dollar," he said, which means that the decline could resume in 2005. 
 In a more bearish forecast, David S. Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn., predicts that the dollar could fall as much as 13 percent this year, ending with the euro around $1.45. That would put the dollar's value at or close to where it was in 1995, when it hit its post-1971 low against the German mark, one of the 12 European currencies merged into the new euro.
 "The dollar is one beaten-down beast," Mr. Gilmore said. And he warned that there was a chance the decline could be fast enough "for things to get ugly, for disorderly markets and for interest rates to go up and stocks to go down."
 "The risk is greater than 5 percent," he added, "and that is statistically significant." 
 Whether the dollar continues to fall -- and, if so, how far and how fast -- will depend to some extent on the Bush administration, which says it supports a strong dollar, on the one hand, but still has been lobbying China and Japan to allow their currencies to strengthen and let the dollar fall. This is believed to be part of an election strategy to help make American companies more competitive. 
 The Federal Reserve will also be an important player, as it is expected to begin raising its target for short-term interest rates this year, perhaps as early as midyear. Foreign exchange analysts are divided over whether higher rates will help or hurt the dollar.
 Some argue that Fed rate increases will confirm that the economy is back on a solid and steady growth path, which should help keep the stock market rally going. If stocks rise enough and interest rates are high enough, more foreign investors might be attracted into American markets. 
 Other analysts warn that in the past the dollar has been undermined when the Fed raised interest rates. The last cycle of Fed rate increases was in 1994, and in April 1995 the dollar responded by hitting new lows against the German mark and the Japanese yen.
 Then there are China and Japan, which prevented the dollar from falling even further in value than it could have last year. China's currency is pegged to the dollar, so instead of rising against the dollar last year, it maintained its value, limiting the dollar's overall slide. But if the Chinese peg is loosened, the dollar could tumble further against most Asian currencies.
 The Japanese government spent about $187 billion, or more than 20 trillion yen, through Dec. 26 intervening in the currency markets to buy dollars to curb the yen's climb. A rising yen would increasingly crimp the business of Japanese exporters.
 The government had never before spent so much to prevent the yen from rising, and many currency traders and analysts now joke that the Japanese have a fixed currency, just like the Chinese.
 Without this intervention, the dollar, which fell 9.6 percent against the yen last year, could have fallen as much as 16 percent, some analysts say. And because of the intervention, they believe the dollar will not fall as far against the yen as against the euro this year; some forecasts show only a 4 percent to 5 percent decline, to around 103 to 101 yen. 
 Lastly, the American economy and stock market will have an impact. So far, the resurgence of growth here and the stock rally have not lifted the dollar. The low-interest-rate environment fostered by the Fed and the record deficit in the nation's current account -- which measures the United States' balance of trade in goods and services with the rest of the world -- could make investment here less attractive to foreigners. 
 The dollar fell 12.1 percent against the euro from the beginning of the stock market rally in March through year-end; its decline for the whole year was 16.5 percent, with the euro valued at $1.2572 on Dec. 31. Against the yen, the dollar fell to 107.36 yen. 
 Against a broad index of the United States' main trading partners, the dollar was down 8.7 percent, the steepest decline since 1987, when it fell 12.2 percent. The year before that, the dollar was down 9.5 percent. But those declines were in a different environment. The dollar soared in the early 1980's, leading the United States and its allies to agree to push it lower. Last year, the dollar also fell sharply against the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the British pound. Among major trading partners, the dollar rose only against the Mexican peso. 
 AMERICANS investing abroad will benefit from the dollar's weakness, as gains from overseas are increased when they are translated back into dollars. Last year, the returns from stock markets abroad, as measured by the Morgan Stanley Capital International all-country world index excluding the United States, were nearly doubled for American investors, as a result of the fall in the dollar. The 19.9 percent return in the local currencies of the countries in the index translated into a dollar gain of 37.5 percent.
 American exporters and the economy in general also benefit from a weaker dollar, as American goods become more price competitive abroad, while imports become more expensive here, helping American competitors.
 In addition, a modestly falling dollar is what most economists prescribe as the long-term antidote to the country's growing current account deficit. That deficit is running at a record annual rate of $500 billion. 
 But Americans will have to pay a lot more to travel abroad for business or pleasure.
 A precipitousfall in the dollar is possible because the worsening current account deficit requires an increasing flow of money from abroad to cover the widening gap. Through the first three quarters of last year, the foreign flow into stocks and bonds actually picked up over the 2002 pace, possibly curbing the dollar's fall.
 Most forecasters, however, are predicting an orderly decline, not a precipitous one, in part because the dollar's decline so far has not hurt either the stock market or the bond market, where interest rates are still low relative to the economy's growth in the second half of last year.
 The current account is Mr. Gilmore's principal reason for predicting a steep, though not disorderly, dollar decline this year. He says he does not think the country can attract the foreign capital needed to bridge the gap, given the dollar's current value. So it will fall further. "Admittedly, evidence of funding shortfall is hard to come by," he said. "But it sure feels that way." 
 Jeremy Fand, senior proprietary currency trader at WestLB in New York, is in the contrarian camp, predicting that the dollar will get help from the stronger American economy. But he said this support would materialize only when the Federal Reserve made it clear that interest rates were going higher. A rise in rates, Mr. Fand argued, would show that Fed policy makers were confident about the economic outlook.
 "The current account becomes irrelevant when the Fed raises interest rates," he argued. "The dollar should rally."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Losing Value"The dollar weakened against the euro and the yen during the last two years. It is now below its value at the start of 1999, when the euro was introduced. Graph tracks value of euros in dollars since 1999. Graph tracks value of Yen to the dollar since 1999. Scale has been inverted to show the dollar's declining value. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); TRENDS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); BONDS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



31 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Outlook; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
China Demand and Weak DollarMay Support High Oil Price

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
THE price of oil this year will turn on several developments around the world, among them the rise of China's economy, whether the United States dollar continues falling as many in the industry expect and political uncertainty in nations with substantial oil reserves: Iraq, Russia, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia.
 Major developments in any of these areas could cause the price of oil to rise from its current $32.52 a barrel for light crude on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Barring any unexpected or calamitous events, many analysts say it is even possible that the price will slip slightly, possibly to $27 to $30. But the price is expected to remain relatively high. 
 Fast-industrializing China has emerged as a crucial source of increasing demand for oil, already eclipsing Japan by some measures as the world's second-largest oil market, after the United States. This trend, creating upward pressure on the price of oil, is expected to continue in 2004 as the Chinese economy continues to grow. An annual growth rate of 7 percent is forecast. 
 China's demand for oil grew 10 percent in 2003, and it is expected to increase 6 percent this year, or the equivalent of an additional 320,000 barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency. While the strain of coping with the growing thirst for oil may become evident in China's energy infrastructure this year, oil exporters are toasting the emergence of an important market.
 Stronger demand in China, and, to a lesser extent in other Asian economies, was a main reason that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries decided not to cut production at its last meeting in Vienna in December, leaving in place its production limit of 24.5 million barrels a day. None of OPEC's 11 members showed displeasure with leaving the price of oil hovering around $30 a barrel, or $2 more than the top of the group's self-proposed trading range of $22 to $28 a barrel, which is often flouted.
 But this year, many analysts say, prices could slip to the middle to upper level of OPEC's price range because of a combination of factors, including expectations for increased production in non-OPEC nations like Russia, Angola and Equatorial Guinea and the removal of one of 2003's major uncertainties, the concern over the short-term effects of the war in Iraq. OPEC prices, based on a combined measure for prices of seven grades of oil, tend to be about $2 a barrel lower than the Nymex price for light crude oil.
 The near-term contract for crude oil has generally been rising on the Nymex over most of the last two months, closing the year at $32.52 a barrel. That is down from a 12-year high of $37.83 for the benchmark contract reached on March 12 just after the United States Energy Department announced a decline in inventories and a week before the war in Iraq; the last time the benchmark closed higher was in October 1990 during the Persian Gulf war when Iraq's occupation of Kuwait cut off exports from both countries. 
 Oil futures hit their year's low only six weeks after the high, with the benchmark crude closing on the Nymex at $25.24 on April 29. That was after United States-led forces took control of Iraq and oil supplies had increased from Venezuela, where a national strike was settled, and Nigeria, where wells reopened after civil strife. But then, by July, with global inventories tight largely as a result of a slower-than-expected recovery in production from Iraq, oil once again breached $30 a barrel. 
 "Iraq still remains the wild card," said Amy Myers Jaffe, senior energy adviser at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University here.
 EVEN after the capture of Saddam Hussein in December, Iraq remains mired in a guerrilla war and facing a formidable process to repair and secure its oil infrastructure, leaving its role ahead unclear. The ambitions for Iraq to re-emerge as an important oil exporter depend largely on efforts to combat attacks and sabotage on a crucial pipeline running from northern Iraq to Turkey.
 OPEC, meanwhile, which accounts for about a third of the world's oil exports, remains vigilant about its option of cutting production to maintain high prices once warmer spring weather starts to sap demand, but its members have been unusually vocal about another theme, the value of the dollar. 
 Several OPEC representatives, including Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, have indicated that today's relatively high oil prices are related to the weakness of the dollar against other major currencies, like the euro. Because oil is priced in dollars, OPEC members have not received an equivalent price rise once sales are translated into their own currencies. The declining dollar has also meant that Europeans, converting euros to dollars to pay for oil, in effect saw oil prices drop 13 percent last year. What is more, with the euro's 19.8 percent climb against the dollar, Persian Gulf nations have found imports from Europe more expensive.
 A weak dollar could extend beyond an aggressive OPEC stance on prices, though, with the currency's volatility spilling into the trading of crude oil contracts this year, said Michael Lewis, chief commodities strategist at Deutsche Bank in London. Mr. Lewis said he expected a "surge in speculative activity" in crude oil trading, which could lead ultimately to wider swings in oil prices.
 Further uncertainty comes from the political situation in Russia, the second-largest oil exporter, after Saudi Arabia, and a non-OPEC member. Russian production is still expected to rise this year, but analysts remain jittery as President Vladimir V. Putin seeks to exert greater governmental control over the nation's oil industry. Until the October arrest of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chief executive of Yukos, the nation's largest oil company, the industry had appeared to be ready for huge infusions of Western investment. 
 "Russian oil is now in a different period," said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. Mr. Yergin said it remained unclear how the prospect of Mr. Putin's growing influence and higher taxes on Russia's oil industry might affect production. He said there would be little clarity on the outlook for the nation's energy industry at least until after presidential elections in March.
 Other doubts relate to Venezuela, where President Hugo Chavez is facing another effort to recall him from office, and Nigeria, where the recent replacement of the oil minister led to speculation as to whether Nigeria would remain a faithful member of OPEC. Finally, there is Saudi Arabia, which has by far the world's largest oil reserves.
 Several analysts pointed to concerns over the Saudi government's efforts to prevent a recent upswing in terror attacks in the country from developing into a greater threat to economic stability and the oil infrastructure. Such concerns are not yet calculated into oil prices, these analysts said.
 Other issues with Saudi oil are also generating talk in Houston's executive suites, among them a technical critique of Saudi Arabia's ability to produce abundant oil cheaply. The critique, by Matthew R. Simmons, chairman of Simmons & Company International, a prominent investment bank that specializes in energy, is based on his own analysis of Saudi geological data. Mr. Simmons warns that Saudi Arabia's famously prolific wells might be less fecund than once thought.
 Saudi Arabia's importance to the global energy industry was driven home at a lunch in Houston in December for Prince Bandar bin Sultan bin Abdul Aziz, the Saudi ambassador to the United States, attended by 600 people who hung on his every word. In a rare public speech, Prince Bandar characterized Saudi Arabia's struggle with terrorism as a "fight to the death."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shengli Oil Field in China, where demand for oil grew 10 percent in 2003 and is expected to increase 6 percent this year. (Photo by Bloomberg News) Chart: "Oil, Persistently High"Several factors, including political unrest in countries with large oil reserves and the weak dollar, have sustained oil prices the last 12 months. Graph tracks weekly oil prices (near-month contract) since 2000.2003: $32.52 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CHINA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (53%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



32 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2632 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
On the Street, Optimism Prevails for Stocks Through 2004

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
AFTER a rollicking year for the American stock market in 2003, prudent investors are asking: Was it too much, too soon?
 The Wall Street consensus is bullish, as it often is. But some market-watchers are worried that investors, hungry to gain back what they lost in the three previous years, will start reaching for the dessert cart before the second course of economic recovery is served. After a year in which the blue-chip indexes rose at least 25 percent and small-cap indexes surged more than 45 percent, it may be time for investors to sit back and pace themselves, they say. 
 Thomas M. McManus, chief investment strategist for Banc of America Securities, is generally bullish on stocks for the coming year, but he frets about the possibility that "we begin to get some of that dessert course where investors start just throwing money at the market and start pushing up valuations ahead of earnings improvements." 
 Since early last year, investor sentiment has swung sharply back toward an emotion that was common in the boom years of the late 1990's, Mr. McManus said. "People are more worried about missing the upside opportunity than they are about losing money," he said.
 A significant number of his counterparts, however, expect a robust market next year, based largely on expectations for solid corporate earnings and a burgeoning economic recovery. "This is a market showing a tremendous amount of resilience," said Laszlo Birinyi, founder of Birinyi Associates, Westport, Conn.
 Michael Moe, with ThinkEquity Partners in San Francisco, sees room for small-cap growth stocks to grow, and Abby Joseph Cohen, chief investment strategist for the Goldman Sachs Group, predicts more gains for technology issues.Of course, not all of their peers agree. Tobias M. Levkovich, United States equity strategist for the Smith Barney unit of Citigroup, expects the market's rise to end by summer. Then, stock prices could fall 10 percent or more by year-end, and they may not be much higher in four years than they are now, he said. 
 "We don't believe we're in a new bull market but in a trading-oriented market," Mr. Levkovich said, adding that the current environment was reminiscent of the up-and-down market seen from 1974 to 1982.
 But he remains far from the consensus. Mr. McManus expects a modestly good year, while Ms. Cohen, Mr. Moe and Mr. Birinyi all expect a very good year.

THOMAS M. McMANUS, chief investment strategist, Banc of America Securities.
 After advising investors to take advantage of any weakness in the stock market in 2003 by "buying the dips," Thomas M. McManus has been lowering expectations for this year, especially in the second half. 
 "We expect only modest appreciation for the major averages in 2004 with most of the gains coming in the first half," he said. "We expect that the large-cap stocks in the Dow average and the S.&P. 500 will outperform the small-caps in the Russell 2000 index."
 That would mark a reversal from last year, when the indexes representing smaller stocks and technology companies easily outpaced the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500. But the shift is already under way: In December, the Dow average rose almost 7 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index was up just 2 percent.
 "The Dow is playing catch-up," he said. "If people start loading up on small caps at the beginning of 2004, we think they'll be disappointed."
 Indeed, if 2004 starts off with an exuberant buying spree over all, he said, he probably would recommend that investors reduce their exposure to the stock market. Since February, Mr. McManus had been advising institutional clients to hold 75 percent of their assets in stocks, but he cut that allocation back to 70 percent last month. He would cut it again, probably to 65 percent, he said, if he thought prices were rising too quickly at the start of this year.
 But Mr. McManus, like many other Wall Street forecasters, believes an economic recovery is under way and that, coupled with an election campaign by a popular incumbent president, should buoy stocks.
 Mr. McManus predicts that the major averages will rise about 5 percent, while broader indexes will be nearly flat. His forecast calls for the Dow average to be at 10,600 at mid-year and 11,000 at year-end, up from 10,454 at the end of 2003. He sees the S.&P. 500, which closed the year at 1,112, climbing to 1,140 at mid-year and 1,160 at year-end, and the Nasdaq Composite, which ended the year at 1,950, rising to 2,050 at mid-year and 2,100 at year-end. In contrast, he forecasts that the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies will rise to just 575 by mid-year, up from 557 at year-end, then fall back to about 550 over the next six months.
 Investors who study valuation are inclined to see the stocks that rose the fastest in 2003 as overpriced, but that analysis may be too simplistic, Mr. McManus said. He advised investors to look for ways to ride the momentum of the market by searching for stocks and sectors with earnings that are likely to increase to justify their high prices.
 "At certain times in valuation cycles, you have to go with momentum," he said. "When earnings are getting better, the stock market's not generous enough to hang around and let you buy a company cheap. It's going to charge you more than you think it's worth."
 He cited a portfolio manager he admires who told him: "You'll never be really successful unless there are some stocks in your portfolio that make you uncomfortable."
 Generally, Mr. McManus said, he thinks investors should stop chasing stocks of cyclical companies that benefit early in economic recovery, like makers of industrial equipment, and become more defensive. 
 Banc of America Securities' list of 10 stocks to buy now is filled with makers of consumer products and service providers, including Clorox, Colgate-Palmolive, Comcast and American International Group, an insurer.
 What are the biggest threats to Mr. McManus's forecast? 
 He said there were significant risks on either side. Stocks are priced for a continued expansion, so the market might react badly to an unexpected pause in the economic recovery or a tapering of earnings growth, he said.
 Conversely, if the economy heats up beyond expectations, the bond market may anticipate a response by the Federal Reserve and push up interest rates faster than expected and bring the stock market skidding to a halt. "Sometimes the Fed's bark is worse than its bite," Mr. McManus said.

ABBY JOSEPH COHEN, chair of the investment policy committee, Goldman Sachs Group.
 Stocks seem to be entering a less frenetic but more confident phase of the bull market that began with a "sigh of relief" in the spring, Abby Joseph Cohen said. The rate of growth of corporate operating profits is likely to moderate to about 8 percent, from her estimate of 27 percent in 2003, but returns on stocks should continue to be above historical norms, she said.
 Ms. Cohen, who was one of the more bullish forecasters on Wall Street during the punishing bear market that began in 2000, is still more optimistic than most. But she made a prescient call in April when she recommended buying the more volatile stocks of smaller and economically sensitive companies.
 At that time, Ms. Cohen had recommended a heavy weighting in shares of information technology companies: 18 percent, compared with the S.&P. 500's 12 percent in technology stocks at the time. Since then, she said, the rally in tech-stock prices has narrowed the gap, pushing the S.&P. 500's share of tech stocks to about 17.5 percent. Still, she said, she thinks there are more gains to come in technology.
 Likewise, she still favors companies that draw discretionary spending by consumers. But she thinks consumers will shift from buying things to doing things, so she prefers providers of consumer services, like travel and entertainment, to producers of cars and housing. 
 She is advising managers of pension funds to keep about 75 percent of their assets in stocks, 20 percent in bonds and the rest in cash and commodities. She expects the S.&P. 500 index to reach 1,250 by the end of 2004, a rise of 12 percent.
 Stocks will be carried higher by continued, though slower, consumer spending and increasing patience and optimism among investors, she said. As concerns about a slide back into recession have abated, she said, investors have begun to look further down the road.
 "What we know from previous cycles is when inflation and interest rates are under control, investors are willing to pay more for a given level of earnings," she said. "As we go through 2004, increasingly what people will be thinking about is 12 to 18 months beyond wherever we are."
 She said that she and her colleagues on Goldman's investment policy committee did not expect the Fed to raise interest rates soon. But, she added, if the Fed did raise rates from their unusually low levels, investors would see that move as a reaction to economic growth, and it "would not have a particularly deleterious impact" on stocks.
 "We're not expecting the Fed to turn ugly this year, but we think we have reached, or will soon reach, the end of the long bull market in bonds," she said. 
 Ms. Cohen said she was as likely to be underestimating as overestimating the market's fortunes. If foreign economies perform better than expected, she said, earnings and stocks could surprise on the high side. 
 Then again, she added, the market could receive some unpleasant surprises from the presidential race, like proposals for tariffs or other forms of protectionism. "Politicians sometimes say the darnedest things," she said.

TOBIAS M. LEVKOVICH, United States equity strategist for the Smith Barney unit of Citigroup.
 After a year of being more bullish than most market forecasters, Tobias M. Levkovich has turned decidedly less optimistic. He expects the S.&P. 500 to end the year around 1,025, down about 8 percent, although he said stocks might continue their recent rise in the first quarter.
 "We're fairly sanguine about the market prospects in the very near term," he said. "Investors are feeling better about life, the economy's better, jobs seem to be coming back -- albeit slowly. We're hearing companies talking about capital spending initiatives. We're getting all this good news, which is encouraging."
 Indeed, Citigroup's economists are projecting a 5 percent increase in the gross domestic product this year. But economic growth and rising corporate profits do not always add up to higher stock prices, Mr. Levkovich said, citing 1984 and 1994 as two exceptions to what some investors consider a rule.
 If the economy is able to sustain its strong recovery, interest rates are likely to rise during the year, he said. As bonds become more attractive, investors would be willing to pay less for every dollar of corporate earnings, he said, so the stock market could decline as earnings improved.
 "I'm talking about something that's a modest correction, not something draconian," he said.
 He has been advising clients to hold onto stocks of cyclical companies in advertising-sensitive media and the capital goods and building-materials sectors. Among Smith Barney's favorite stocks in those areas are the Belo Corporation, Viacom, Alcoa, Caterpillar and Louisiana-Pacific. 
 But Mr. Levkovich has also been warning clients to be prepared to act defensively and shift their money into companies that sell staples, such as drugs and consumer goods. In those areas, Smith Barney is recommending Coca-Cola Enterprises, Wendy's International and CVS.
 But he forecasts disappointment for those who think a major bull market has begun. "I suspect in 1974 people felt entitled to a new bull market, kind of the way they do today," he said. "But markets don't work that way."

MICHAEL MOE, chairman and chief executive, ThinkEquity Partners.
 The sun is starting to shine again in Silicon Valley after a long, dark period, said Michael Moe, who works from San Francisco running a research-oriented investment bank.
 A former growth-stock strategist at Merrill Lynch, Mr. Moe forecasts that consensus estimates for corporate earnings over all "will turn out to be conservative," and that investors will pay even more for each dollar of those earnings this year than they did in 2003. That combination will drive blue-chip stocks to a gain of as much as 20 percent.
 But Mr. Moe said that the small-cap growth companies that were the lifeblood of Silicon Valley should fare even better. They were "so left behind" in the last few years that they "have a lot of catching up to do," he said. 
 Demand for stocks has been strong, with an average of $2.5 billion flowing into mutual funds each week since March, he said. With the market for initial public offerings nearly dormant until late last year, the supply of new shares has not kept up with demand, he said. 
"To sustain the bull market, we need a pickup of I.P.O.'s, because new issues are effectively the fresh blood of the market," Mr. Moe said. 
 The sectors that should lead the market higher in 2004, he said, include biotechnology and communications companies that can capitalize on the convergence of voice and data. This may be the year, he said that the regional telephone companies "throw in the towel" on Internet telephony.
 "Anything mobile is hot," Mr. Moe added, citing companies that provide handsets, software or computer chips for wireless communication. Qualcomm, which provides the inner workings of many of those handsets, is to the wireless world what Microsoft was to the personal-computer revolution, he said.
 Sounding more like a true believer than a survivor, Mr. Moe said, "The people who thought the Internet was going to change everything might have the last laugh."

LASZLO BIRINYI, president, Birinyi Associates.
 Stocks cannot help but shoot higher amid the fertile combination of economic growth and low inflation, said Laszlo Birinyi, who runs a financial consulting firm in Westport, Conn., that he founded in 1989.
 Mr. Birinyi, an avid student of market history, said he saw parallels between the current environment for stocks and the one in 1962, the beginning of a four-year bull market. Back then, he said, companies were holding back on capital spending, unemployment was not declining and stocks looked expensive. 
 "It's not unusual, at the beginning of an upward move, to have overvaluation," Mr. Birinyi said. "At the beginning of a bull market, the traditional parameters and historical measures are somewhat discarded. My concern is that we get too carried away."
 Mr. Birinyi, who had expected stocks to gain only about 10 percent in 2003, said he would not be surprised by a rise of 20 percent or more this year. He said he was hard-pressed to imagine anything that might turn the market back down.
 "For right now, there are no storm clouds in my scenario," he said, adding that even a raising of interest rates might be good for stocks. "This is a market showing a tremendous amount of resilience."
 He is most troubled, he said, by the big gains some smaller technology companies have made while mainstays of the Nasdaq stock market, like Microsoft and Oracle, have lagged. 
 Investors in technology will need to be astute stock pickers this year, looking for proven companies that have not run up, rather than loading up on the most beaten-down companies, he said.
 "Now, you want to buy stocks which really do reflect the economic recovery instead of the hoped-for recovery," he said.
 Among his favorites, he said, are Dow Chemical, United Technologies, I.B.M. and companies that should benefit from a continued housing boom, like Countrywide Financial, Centex Homes and Pulte. 
 He said that he did not favor financial stocks in general, but liked some that offered attractive dividends, including Citigroup and American Express.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ABBY JOSEPH COHEN -- Chief investment strategist, Goldman Sachs Group; MICHAEL MOE -- Chairman and chief executive, ThinkEquity Partners; TOBIAS M. LEVKOVICH -- U.S. equity strategist, Smith Barney; LASZLO BIRINYI -- President, Birinyi Associates; THOMAS M. McMANUS -- Chief investment strategist, Banc of America Securities Chart: "Back on the Rise" Graph tracks percentage change in 2003 for Nasdaq, S. & P. 500, and Dow Industrials. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Predictions for '04"Five analysts were asked where they thought the Standard & Poor's 500, which closed 2003 up 27 percent, would be at the end of 2004. S. & P. 500 AT END OF 2004 Birinyi: 1,335 (up 20%)Moe: 1,335 (up 20%)Cohen: 1,250 (up 12%)McManus: 1,160 (up 4%)Levkovich: 1,025 (down 8%) Chart: "STOCK MARKETS IN 2003" MARKET INDEX United States Dow Jones industrials2003 CLOSE: 10,453.92PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +25.3% Dow Jones transports2003 CLOSE: 3,007.05PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +30.2 Dow Jones utilities2003 CLOSE: 266.90PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +24.0 S. & P. 5002003 CLOSE: 1,111.92PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +26.4 Nasdaq Composite2003 CLOSE: 2,003.37PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +50.0 Nasdaq 1002003 CLOSE: 1,467.92PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +49.1 Russell 20002003 CLOSE: 556.91PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +45.4 Americas Canada S. & P. TSX2003 CLOSE: 8,220.89PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +50.6 Mexico Bolsa2003 CLOSE: 8,795.28PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +32.6 Brazil Bovespa2003 CLOSE: 22,236.39PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +141.6 Argentina Merval2003 CLOSE: 1,071.95PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +134.2 Europe Britain FTSE 1002003 CLOSE: 4,476.90PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +26.0 France CAC 402003 CLOSE: 3,557.90PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +39.4 Germany DAX2003 CLOSE: 3,965.16PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +64.5 Asia Japan Nikkei 2252003 CLOSE: 10,676.64PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +37.9 Hong Kong Hang Seng2003 CLOSE: 12,575.94PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +35.5 Singapore Straits Times2003 CLOSE: 1,764.52PERCENT CHANGE IN DOLLARS: +34.3 INTEREST RATES IN 2003 INTEREST RATE U.S. 3-mo. Treasury2003 CLOSE: 0.90%PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: -0.30 U.S. 10-yr. Treasury2003 CLOSE: 4.25PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: +0.42 U.S. AA-corps. (7-10 yrs.)2003 CLOSE: 4.67PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: -0.06 U.S. BBB-corps. (7-10 yrs.)2003 CLOSE: 5.31PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: -0.96 U.S. high-yield corporates2003 CLOSE: 7.85PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: -4.15 JAPAN -- 10-yr. Govt.2003 CLOSE: 1.37PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: +0.46 GERMANY -- 10-yr. Govt.2003 CLOSE: 4.29PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: +0.09 BRITAIN -- 10-yr. Govt.2003 CLOSE: 4.80PERCENT CHANGE IN POINTS: +0.43 CURRENCIES IN 2003 UNITS TO THE DOLLAR BRITAIN -- pound2003 CLOSE: 0.5607CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +10.8% EUROPE -- euro2003 CLOSE: 0.7954CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +19.8 JAPAN -- yen2003 CLOSE: 107.36CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +10.6 MEXICO -- peso2003 CLOSE: 11.227CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: -7.6 BRAZIL -- real2003 CLOSE: 2.897CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +22.2 SINGAPORE -- dollar2003 CLOSE: 1.6977CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +2.2 SOUTH KOREA -- won2003 CLOSE: 1192.6CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: -0.6 CANADA -- dollar2003 CLOSE: 1.2882CHANGE AGAINST THE DOLLAR: +22.0 COMMODITIES IN 2003 INDEX REUTERS CRB INDEX (over all)2003 CLOSE: 255.29PERCENT CHANGE: +8.9% NEARMONTH ACTIVE CONTRACT GOLD (ounce)2003 CLOSE: $416.10PERCENT CHANGE: +19.5% SILVER (ounce)2003 CLOSE: $5.97PERCENT CHANGE: +24.0 COPPER (pound)2003 CLOSE: $1.04PERCENT CHANGE: +49.6 PLATINUM (ounce)2003 CLOSE: $811.30PERCENT CHANGE: +34.2 CRUDE OIL (barrel)2003 CLOSE: $32.52PERCENT CHANGE: +4.2 NATURAL GAS (million BTU)2003 CLOSE: $6.19PERCENT CHANGE: +29.2 HEATING OIL (gallon)2003 CLOSE: $0.91PERCENT CHANGE: +5.3 SOYBEANS (bushel)2003 CLOSE: $7.89PERCENT CHANGE: +38.5 CORN (bushel)2003 CLOSE: $2.46PERCENT CHANGE: +4.3 WHEAT (bushel)2003 CLOSE: $3.77PERCENT CHANGE: +16.0 COTTON (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.75PERCENT CHANGE: +46.7 SUGAR, WORLD (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.06PERCENT CHANGE: -25.5 COFFEE (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.65PERCENT CHANGE: +7.9 COCOA (ton)2003 CLOSE: $1,515.00PERCENT CHANGE: -25.0 ORANGE JUICE (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.61PERCENT CHANGE: -33.8 LIVE CATTLE (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.74PERCENT CHANGE: -7.7 LEAN HOGS (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.53PERCENT CHANGE: +3.5 PORK BELLIES (pound)2003 CLOSE: $0.86PERCENT CHANGE: +0.3 LUMBER (1,000 bd. ft.)2003 CLOSE: $312.60PERCENT CHANGE: +43.6 (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; The Associated Press; Merill Lynch indexes U.S. corporate bond rates )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: COHEN, ABBY JOSEPH; MOE, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); GERMANY (90%); HONG KONG (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



33 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Markets & Investing; 
Global Investors Expect Still More Gains

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
REJOICING over stock market rallies around the world, big global investors are nonetheless entering the new year cautiously, expecting more gains but much less spectacular ones than in 2003. 
 When translated into dollars for American investors, stocks in some emerging markets more than doubled in 2003 -- among them Thailand, up 134.3 percent, Turkey, 122.4 percent and Brazil, up 102.9 percent. 
 Even some developed markets posted dollar gains that exceeded the American markets' 26.8 percent gain, as measured by Morgan Stanley Capital International's country stock indexes. Germany was up 60.1 percent; Canada, 52.1 percent; and Japan, 34.6 percent. 
 Over all, the Morgan Stanley Capital International index of world stock markets, excluding the United States, rose 37.5 percent last year. 
 Many large institutional investors, however, are treating the extraordinary returns as, well, extraordinary. Instead of piling more money into global markets in search of once-in-a-decade gains, they are taking a more restrained approach as they brace for more modest, single-digit increases that are expected this year. While companies in Asia, in particular, will continue to benefit from strong growth in the United States and China, investors are becoming more selective about picking winners and losers, rather than simply betting that broader economic rebounds will lift all boats.
 Market analysts and big investors generally contend that share prices globally will continue to rise through the first half of 2004 as profits meet expectations and interest rates remain low. While some worry about the impact of the presidential election in the United States in November on markets around the world, most expect gains for the full year. 
 "We expect a more muted reaction" in 2004, said Alan Brown, chief investment officer at State Street Global Advisors in London. "Highish single-digit returns. The main worry is I don't know what to worry about, but I know there's something out there."
 Such caution toward the market is grounded in two concerns. First, the global recovery now under way faces several formidable hurdles, chief among them a weak dollar, which may reduce the United States's current account deficit but hurt its trading partners; rising interest rates; violence in the Middle East; and the United States presidential election. To lesser degrees, Japan's shaky banks and continued slow growth in Europe present obstacles.
 The second concern is connected to the first. After years of selling their shares of companies based outside the United States, large investors in many cases in the last year increased their holdings to bring them in line with global model portfolios. Now that their portfolios are "neutral," they want to see additional good news before they pour more money into markets outside the United States. This kind of pause after last year's gains is consistent with past rallies.
 "Equities rarely move from a bull market to a bear market smoothly to a bull market," said Matthew Merritt, the head of Global Equity Strategy at Citigroup Global Markets in London. "The question is: have equities gone too far or not far enough in pricing in the global economy?"
 The answer, he and others say, depends on which market you highlight. Some of the most eye-popping returns in dollar terms last year were in Argentina, up 98.5 percent and Russia, up 70.3 percent, both thinly traded markets where a little money can double an index. While economic conditions in both countries have stabilized, prompting rallies, few market watchers expect these big increases to be repeated.
 In Europe, German stocks still have room to grow, despite last year's 60.1 percent increase, because the shares in manufacturers like Volkswagen AG and SAP AG are rising with the upturn in demand for cars, technology and other goods, and because companies have been cutting costs to compensate for the stronger euro, which gained 19.8 percent against the dollar last year.
 "The only interesting market in Europe is Germany," said Abhijit Chakrabortti, global equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Securities in London. It is the only European market, he said, where companies have "taken the needed steps" to restructure by cutting costs, laying off workers and reducing debt.
 Big companies in France and Italy, on the other hand, are struggling to reduce high labor costs and debts. Manufacturers in these countries also lag their German rivals in moving production to China and other booming, low-cost markets.
 Like manufacturers in Europe, Japanese exporters are wrestling with a strong currency that makes their products more expensive to foreign buyers, but Canon Inc., the Honda Motor Company and others have learned how to trim their production costs to compensate for a robust yen and have also moved sizable portions of their manufacturing overseas.
 More broadly, Japan seems finally to be dealing with its festering banks. The government has set deadlines for the banks to reduce their non-performing loans and stockholdings. Though much work remains, the worst days seem to be past, a big reason Japanese bank stocks, which make up 8.8 percent of the market, jumped 48.9 percent in 2003, as measured by the yen-denominated Topix Bank Index.
 "There is now growing evidence to suggest that Japan's major structural problems are slowly, but surely, being resolved much faster than the consensus believes," Kathy Matsui, chief equity strategist at Goldman Sachs Japan in Tokyo, wrote to investors last month.
 Ms. Matsui expects Japan's Topix index, which charts about 1,500 of the country's largest companies, to rise 40 percent, calculated in yen, in the next 12 months, a forecast that is higher than that of most analysts and well ahead of last year's 24 percent advance.
 Ultimately, Japanese stocks, like most around the globe, rely heavily on growth in the United States and China. Both countries are not only big buyers of such finished products as cars, machinery and electronics, but also of commodities like steel, chemicals, coal and oil. China's appetite for these raw materials is expected to prop up Australian stocks again this year. South African shares, which gained 39.9 percent last year, should benefit similarly.
 "There's very little pricing freedom in any manufacturing anywhere in the world," Mr. Brown said. "But at least commodities prices are getting better." 
 Britain, on the other hand, is expected to suffer because its stock market, which was among the slowest growing in 2003, up 14.4 percent -- but 27.2 percent in dollar terms -- is more reliant on financial stocks that are dealing with mounting consumer debt and rising interest rates.
 Mr. Brown, like many market watchers, added that part of the gains in stock prices last year could be attributed to the absence of bad news after the abatement of economic fears related to the war in Iraq, worries about deflation and concern about SARS, and to companies' efforts to adjust to tough times. 
 "When markets are up 60 to 70 percent, it's hard to believe it will be repeated," said John Feng, a consultant at Greenwich Associates in Connecticut who polled financial institutions in Asia on their investment plans for 2004. "But people on the buy and sell side are their most optimistic in three or four years. There's a lot of talk about domestic consumption picking up" for Asia.
 Mr. Feng, who surveyed dozens of mutual fund and pension fund managers from August through October, said the portfolio managers expected stock markets in Hong Kong, China, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore to grow 11 to 14 percent in 2004. These investors are shifting more money toward North Asia, particularly Taiwan and South Korea, which are seen as favorably positioned to benefit from the global boom in technology investment and from Chinese growth. That comes at the expense of Southeast Asian markets like Thailand and the Philippines, which are expected to lag this year and be less likely to benefit from those trends. 
 While analysts tend to expect market gains in the first half of the year, some worry that the United States presidential election in November could nudge investors to the sidelines until the outcome is clear. If the United States economy grows at an annual rate of about 4 percent through June, as expected, the Federal Reserve will also face pressure to raise interest rates, which could dampen corporate profits, consumer spending and, ultimately, the world's biggest economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at work on the floor of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. (Photo by Bloomberg News) Chart: "Markets Up Throughout The World"Changes in Morgan Stanley Capital International's country indexes of market performance for 2003, in local currency and dollars, plotted weekly. All-country stock index excluding the U.S.Dollar: +37.5% United StatesDollar: +26.8% BritainDollar: +27.2%Pound: +14.4% JapanDollar: +34.6%Yen: +21.6% GermanyDollar: +60.1%Euro: +33.2% ArgentinaDollar: +98.5%Peso: +73.0% ThailandDollar: +134.3%Baht: +115.4% Russia*Dollar: +70.3% *Dollar denominated All figures for 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); THAILAND (88%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



34 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Police Try to Get Applicants for Exam to Actually Take It 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

 BODY:
In the past few years, Police Department recruiters have discovered that waiving the $35 fee and accepting applications over the Internet sharply drive up the number of people applying to become police officers. At the same time, though, the percentage of applicants who actually show up to take the police test plummets, to about a quarter of all who apply from about half.
 The department is trying to turn that slump around for the next test, in February. 
 "We're following up with applicants, we're making a lot of phone calls," Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said in a recent interview. "We've done a lot of outreach." 
To try to get a better count in advance -- and perhaps prod more applicants to show up -- the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which administers the test, is requiring applicants to reserve a seat for the test. Cards bearing reservation instructions were mailed on Dec. 22, so it is too early to gauge the response, said Warner Johnston, a spokesman for Martha K. Hirst, the commissioner of administrative services.
The new effort to get more people to take the exam comes as a spike in retirements seems to be tapering off. By mid-November in 2002, 2,300 officers, eligible for a pension after 20 years, had retired that year. Many who had earned considerable amounts of overtime pay after Sept. 11, 2001, said they were taking advantage of the rule that calculates pensions based on pay for the final year of a person's employment. 
By the closing days of 2003, 1,898 had retired, Chief Michael R. Collins, a spokesman for the department, said early this week. He said the department would not provide its projections for attrition in 2004.
But after last Tuesday, when 1,300 cadets graduated from the Police Academy in a ceremony held at Madison Square Garden, the department was about 800 people short of the budgeted number of noncivilian personnel: 37,210.
During his tenure, Commissioner Kelly has made recruitment a priority, hiring a full-time outside consultant and intensifying campaigns at elite colleges, military bases and places of worship in minority neighborhoods. It was under his watch that the exam fee was first waived, a move that he says encourages a diverse applicant pool.
The department tried reinstating the fee last June, but only 3,323 people signed up to take the test, the lowest number since at least 1986. For February's exam, the fee has been waived once more, and 31,770 have applied.
More than half of those, 19,464, signed up online. Of those, Chief Collins said, 15,000 are state residents, and 186 are nonresidents of the United States.
The department has initiated a program called Operation Show Up, which consists of e-mailing and calling applicants to answer their questions and gauge their interest, Chief Collins said.
Historically, about 75 percent of those taking the exam pass. Of those, one in 10 is found suitable to hire.
Mr. Kelly said he did not see a correlation between the economy and the number of applicants. "We've never really had a problem," he said in a recent interview, although in early 2002 he expressed disappointment when fewer than 7,000 people showed up to take the exam.
If anything had an effect, Mr. Kelly said, it was 9/11 and the subsequent change in the public's perception of police officers. Ground zero was prominently featured in an inspirational, slow-motion video shown at Tuesday's graduation, which also included images of the World Economic Forum, two detectives who died in the line of duty in March, and a tiger -- presumably the one that the department's Emergency Services Unit found in a Harlem housing project and shot with tranquilizer darts in October.
Since 9/11, Commissioner Kelly said, the average age and education level of applicants has increased. "There is this sense that people want to be involved in the fray," he said.
Tuesday's graduating class was described in a news release as "one of the more ethnically diverse in the history of the Police Department." It is roughly 25 percent Hispanic, 16 percent black and 7 percent "Asian and other." The department is now about 21 percent Hispanic, 15 percent black and 3 percent "Asian and other." The percentage of women in the department is the same as in the current class, 16 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Police Test No-Shows"Potential recruits who sign up to take the New York City police officer exam often fail to show up for the test. EXAM DATE: Sept. 1999SIGNED UP: 15,024TOOK EXAM: 10,373PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 69.0% EXAM DATE: May 2000SIGNED UP: 8,380TOOK EXAM: 5,665PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 67.6 EXAM DATE: Dec. 2000SIGNED UP: 11,559TOOK EXAM: 7,772PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 67.2 EXAM DATE: June 2001SIGNED UP: 12,292TOOK EXAM: 6,221PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 50.6 EXAM DATE: Nov. 2001SIGNED UP: 14,600TOOK EXAM: 7,123PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 48.8 -- Exam fee waived. EXAM DATE: Feb. 2002SIGNED UP: 13,659TOOK EXAM: 6,984PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 51.1 EXAM DATE: June 2002SIGNED UP: 32,149TOOK EXAM: 9,691PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 30.1 -- Online applications begin. EXAM DATE: Oct. 2002SIGNED UP: 29,011TOOK EXAM: 7,597PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 26.2 EXAM DATE: Feb. 2003SIGNED UP: 14,207TOOK EXAM: 3,948PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 27.8 EXAM DATE: June 2003SIGNED UP: 3,323TOOK EXAM: 2,011PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM: 60.5 -- Exam fee reinstated. EXAM DATE: Feb. 2004SIGNED UP: 31,770TOOK EXAM: --PERCENTAGE WHO TOOK EXAM -- Exam fee again waived. (Source by Department of Citywide Administrative Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); OVERTIME (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



35 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
MURRAY, A. BREAN

 BODY:
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66, of heart failure on December 25, 2003. Resident of New York City, Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY and Sun Valley, ID. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Bettina Patterson Murray, sons Christopher and Stephen Murray of Portland, OR, stepdaughter Renee Sands Tobin of New York City and stepgranddaughter Rory Patterson Tobin. Brother of Sean, Noel, Kevin and Grant Cunningham and Lee Cunningham Lisman (who predeceased him). Born in Dublin, Ireland, he emigrated to the United States in 1950 and became a citizen in 1952. He served in the US Army from 1954-1957 as a member of the 82nd Airborne Division and was also assigned to the US Military Academy at West Point. In 1961, he received his BS in Economics from Villanova University, PA. His business career started at IBM and continued with Cogan, Berlind, Weill & Levitt, where he became a partner in 1965. In 1973, he founded Brean Murray & Co., a privately held investment firm. His association with other companies included founding and serving on the board of Shared Medical Systems and as a director of Concept, Inc. At the time of his death he was serving as a director of both Specialty Toner Corp. and Somanetics Corp. He served as an Official of the American Stock Exchange, and in 1985 was elected to the Board of the Tax Council. He was a director of Doral Financial Corp., a firm based in Puerto Rico, for approximately nine years. 
For the past two years, Brean Murrany & Co. has sponsored the Investment Opportunities in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico conferences. On October 30, 2003, the conference was held at the New York Stock Exchange and Brean rang the closing bell that day to celebrate the conclusion of the conference. He was a member of the Board of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice Foundation, CUNY. He was instrumental in the establishment of the McCabe Fellowship, a scholarship exchange program between police professionals from John Jay College and the An Garda Siochana, the national police force in Ireland. In 1988, Brean and his wife, Bettina, created a scholarship fund to enable financially underprivileged students to attend Columbia University's Summer Program for High School Students. This program is designed for highly motivated students to experience college-level study, and over the past sixteen years the scholarship fund has supported over 400 students. A private funeral service and burial will be held in Cornwall-on-Hudson. A memorial service will be held in New York on January 12th at 4:30PM at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th St. and 5th Ave, followed by a reception at The Union Club, 109 East 69 St. In lieu of flowers memorial donations may be made to The John Jay College Foundation, for the Brean Murray Scholarship Fund, President's Office/ P. Maull, 899 10th Ave, New York, NY 10019 or to The Scholarship Fund, Columbia University's Summer Program for High School Students, Attn: Paul McNeil, 303 Lewisohn Hall, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); ARMIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); BOARD CHANGES (67%); US TERRITORIES (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) 

COMPANY: BREAN MURRAY CARRET & CO LLC (83%); COVIDIEN PLC (67%); TONER CORP (67%); DORAL FINANCIAL CORP (66%); SIEMENS MEDICAL SOLUTIONS USA INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: COV (NYSE) (67%); DRL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON:  MURRAY, A. BREAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); IRELAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



36 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Some School Districts Challenge Bush's Signature Education Law 

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: READING, Pa. 

 BODY:
A small but growing number of school systems around the country are beginning to resist the demands of President Bush's signature education law, saying its efforts to raise student achievement are too costly and too cumbersome. 
 The school district here in Reading recently filed suit contending that Pennsylvania, in enforcing the federal law, had unfairly judged Reading's efforts to educate thousands of recent immigrants and unreasonably required the impoverished city to offer tutoring and other services for which there is no money. 
 "We're not trying to make a political statement, but this law can just overwhelm a school system's ability to meet its requirements, especially when a district is as financially stressed as we are," said Fred Gaige, a school board member. His school system has been struggling to comply with the law, he said, even as it flirts with bankruptcy because the local manufacturing economy is collapsing.
The law, known as No Child Left Behind and signed in January 2002, seeks to raise achievement by penalizing schools where test scores do not meet annual targets. It is the most sweeping plan to shake up public education in a generation, as well as the most intrusive federal intervention in local schools. But until recently it had provoked little more than grumbling, though polls showed that educators in most of the nation's 15,000 districts considered several of its requirements ill-conceived. 
In recent weeks, however, three Connecticut school districts have rejected federal money rather than comply with the red tape that accompanies the law, and several Vermont districts have shifted federal poverty money away from schools to shield them from sanctions. 
Republican lawmakers from the National Council of State Legislatures, who consider the law a violation of states' rights, took their complaints to the White House in November, where they got a chilly reception.
Now, several say they will press their case in their home states. A Republican legislator has introduced a bill that would prohibit Utah authorities from complying with the law or accepting the $100 million it would bring the state. Half a dozen other state legislatures have voted to study similar action.
Some analysts see the scattered actions as the front end of a backlash that will probably swell this year, when early penalties are likely to be imposed on thousands of schools across the nation.
"The signs all show that as the law takes effect at the local level it is going to cause a reaction," said Jack Jennings, director of the Washington-based Center on Education Policy, who is overseeing a nationwide study of how the law affects school districts. "This is not a crisis; these are just early flares of resistance. But next year the reaction could be sharper."
Under the law, every racial and demographic group in each school must meet rising goals on English and math tests to make "adequate yearly progress." If any group fails to reach targets for two years running, a school is labeled "needing improvement," and must provide transportation for students to transfer to higher-scoring schools or pay for tutoring. Continued shortfalls lead to escalating sanctions that culminate in removal of the staff.
It is an accountability system with myriad ways to disqualify schools. This year 26,000 of the nation's 93,000 public schools failed to make adequate yearly progress, according to a teachers union tally, fueling predictions that the law could eventually label nearly all schools as failing. Much opposition is based on the view that the law will require districts to spend large sums to remedy shortcomings in such schools, without full federal financing.
Eugene W. Hickok, acting deputy secretary of education, acknowledged that many educators were disenchanted with the law. "It exposes them and makes them nervous because it focuses on where the job is getting done," Dr. Hickok said. "But generally the American public likes the law's emphasis on accountability and results. Over all there's a lot of popular support." 
Congress passed the law with overwhelming bipartisan support. Although a few resolutions requesting changes have surfaced in Congress, they have not garnered much momentum. 
But in the presidential campaign, criticism of the law by Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, and other Democratic candidates has been drawing an enthusiastic response. School boards, Dr. Dean told a New Hampshire town meeting recently, call the law "no school boards left standing." Teachers call it "no behind left," he said.
One school that did not make adequate yearly progress this year was Somers High School in Connecticut, where 100 percent of students scored at or above the proficient level on the most recent reading test, and 99 percent on the math test. Only 94.3 percent of the sophomore class participated in the math test, however, which meant the school failed the requirement that 95 percent of students participate, causing the school to fall short of adequate yearly progress, said Thomas W. Jefferson, the Somers superintendent.
That shortfall has no consequence because the Somers Board of Education had already voted to reject $43,000 in federal financing. 
Few districts across the nation could afford to give up federal aid, which in large urban districts amounts to tens of millions. But Dr. Jefferson said he believed Somers' action was viewed sympathetically by educators elsewhere.
"When the law was passed it looked positive and bipartisan," Dr. Jefferson said. "But as these regulations have become known there's a growing sense of outrage." 
Two groups sent letters to Congress this fall urging lawmakers to stand fast against criticism of the law. The Business Roundtable, an organization of corporate chief executives, expressed "strong support for this landmark reform effort" and cautioned that "there are voices calling for measures that would take us backwards."
Joseph M. Tucci, president of the EMC Corporation and chairman of the group's education task force, said in an interview: "The law is about raising standards and closing achievement gaps. Is it perfect? No. But we've got to start somewhere."
In November, the Education Trust, a Washington group that helped write sections of the law, organized several dozen black and Hispanic educators to sign a letter to Congress that called the law "a huge step forward in the movement toward full participation in American democracy." The trust supports the requirement that test results be broken down to show how all demographic groups are faring, a measure aimed at exposing educational inequities.
Last year resentment toward the law largely focused on the way Washington seemed to be telling states how to make schools accountable, when many had successful homegrown programs. This year, rising frustration has shifted to money.
"The administration says the law is not an unfunded mandate, but many of us feel that it is," said Kory M. Holdaway, a Republican member of the Utah Legislature who, as chairman of the National Conference of State Legislatures' Committee on Education, voiced legislators' complaints to White House officials in a November meeting.
A survey by Public Agenda, an opinion research organization, found that almost 9 in 10 of the nation's school superintendents believed the law required them to undertake extensive initiatives -- new tests, tutoring for struggling students -- without enough money.
Outrage over that prospect this fall is what persuaded the Reading superintendent, Melissa Jamula, to recommend that the district file suit in December.
Reading is a city in distress. Factories are closing, and property tax revenue declined from $33.8 million to $22.3 million in eight years. The district spends about $2,000 less per student than the average Pennsylvania district. Spending has declined even as the school population has surged, with many new students requiring English instruction, Dr. Jamula said.
Thirteen of Reading's 19 schools either missed adequate yearly progress this year or were labeled as needing improvement. Although the district received at least $8.1 million in federal education money for this year, up from $4.9 million in 2001-2002, the increases have not kept pace with needs, partly because of Pennsylvania's budget crisis, Dr. Jamula said.
Keith Pierce, a spokesman, said the Pennsylvania Department of Education was prepared to defend itself legally. But he added: "They are really hurting, and when you couple that with all the requirements of the federal law, it's just a mess."
Richard L. Guida, the lawyer who drew up Reading's suit, voiced frustration with the law. "What if they told us to build all new school buildings?" he asked. "Well that'd be nice, but we can't afford that. This is not an 'Ozzie and Harriet' environment here. Is the federal government going to wave a wand and all our problems are going to go away?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at Reading High School in Reading, Pa., at the end of a recent day. The school, like the 18 others in the district, is struggling to meet the academic requirements of the Bush administration's education law. (Photo by Jane Therese for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); ADEQUATE YEARLY PROGRESS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LITIGATION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



37 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Libya Reminds U.S. Of Sanctions Deadline
Libya's prime minister said America should act to reward his country for abandoning its secret programs to develop dangerous weapons and warned that if sanctions were not lifted by May 12, Libya would no longer be bound to pay $6 million to each family that lost relatives on Pan Am Flight 103. A1

Iraqis Clean Up After Bombing
People in Baghdad began the task of sifting through the debris of their lives after a car bomb tore through a restaurant there. Also, military officials said an American soldier was killed and six others injured when their truck overturned on the way to Baghdad International Airport. A6

As the counterinsurgency in Iraq grinds into its ninth month, the Army is increasingly relying on snipers to protect infantry patrols sweeping through urban streets and alleyways, and to kill guerrilla leaders and disrupt their attacks. A1

White House Offer to Iran
The Bush administration has suggested to Iran that it might be willing to send a humanitarian delegation, possibly headed by Senator Elizabeth H. Dole of North Carolina, to help with relief efforts in the areas devastated by an earthquake last month, an administration official said. A10

Egyptian Envoy Visits Arafat
An Egyptian government envoy, hoping to revive the stalled Middle East peace effort, met the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and urged him to work with rival Palestinian factions to end attacks against Israel. The envoy is trying to arrange a new meeting of Palestinian faction leaders. A4

Vote Aids Musharraf
Gen. Pervez Musharraf won a vote of confidence from Pakistan's electoral college, allowing him legally to remain president into 2007. The vote completes his transformation into a constitutionally legitimate president. Most opposition parties abstained from or boycotted the vote. A10

Afghan Constitution in Trouble
Afghanistan's constitutional grand council adjourned in disarray, revealing a bitter struggle between the leaders of the country. Nearly half the delegates boycotted a vote on some amendments, and it became clear that the process to draw up a new constitution was threatened. A10

U.S. Secret in British Document
The United States seriously contemplated using military force to seize oil fields in the Middle East 30 years ago during the Arab oil embargo, according to a declassified British document. A4

Hong Kong Democracy Protest
Demonstrators in Hong Kong called for the government to allow the public to elect the next chief executive and the entire Legislature. A6

Bicentennial Violence in Haiti
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti presided over a celebration of the impoverished country's bicentennial, though many found little to celebrate. The crowd climbed atop a fence, toppling it and crushing several people. A3

NATIONAL A12-14

Terror Threat Prompts Cancellation of 2 Flights
British and Mexican airlines canceled two flights to the United States, one on New Year's Day and another on New Year's Eve, after the American and British authorities warned of possible terrorist attacks on the jets, officials said. A1

Cow's Calves to Be Killed
Washington State officials began the process of destroying the offspring of a cow found to have had mad cow disease as federal investigators searched for cows that were imported from Canada with it. A12

Questions on Terror Financing
The top senators on the Senate Finance Committee openly questioned a federal agency's ability to block terrorist money. A14

Clark Proceeds With New Vigor
Gen. Wesley K. Clark is increasingly energized by growing crowds, his improving standing in the polls and a steadily rising cache of money. He is on a tour that has touched eight southern states in two days. A12

Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat, has become the boutique candidate for peace activists and Hollywood liberals. A1

Possum Drop Under Scrutiny
The host of an annual possum drop in North Carolina used a dead possum after he received a call from a national animal rights organization threatening to sue him for animal cruelty if he used a live possum. A12

WEEKEND E1-38; E39-46

EDUCATION

Educators Resist Bush Plan
A small but growing number of school systems around the country are beginning to resist the demands of President Bush's signature education law, saying its efforts to raise student achievement are too costly and too cumbersome. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Homicide Total Up a Bit, But 2nd Lowest Since '63
New York City ended the year with 596 homicides, slightly more than the 587 in 2002, police officials announced. It was the second lowest number of homicides in the city since 1963, the police said. B5

Deadly Van Accident
A van carrying members of a high school basketball team from Cen-
tereach, N.Y., flipped on a North Carolina highway, leaving one student dead and eight others injured. D1

Altercation at Firehouse
A Staten Island firefighter was in critical condition with a head wound and facial fractures and another firefighter was arrested and charged with assault after what authorities call firehouse "horseplay." B1

Taxi Drivers Fear Expansion
A proposal to expand New York City's fleet of yellow cabs received a chilly welcome from taxi drivers, who fear that increased competition and fewer passengers will drive down their earnings. B3

Mother and Son Die in Fire
An 82-year-old woman and her bedridden son, whom she tried to save, died in a fire that swept through the family's home in Nassau County, the authorities said. They said the fire started when a lighted fireplace ignited a rug. B3

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTS D1-6

Trojans Win the Rose Bowl
Southern California beat Michigan, 28-14, in the Rose Bowl. D1

ESCAPES F1-12

OBITUARIES B7

Reginald Harold Jones
The chief executive of General Electric in the late 1970's was 86. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Looking Ahead to 2004
Almost every stock went up in 2003 while volatility plunged. Small stocks had their best year ever and some stars of the bubble era made impressive comebacks. Can such good fortune continue? C1

Some market-watchers say it may be time for investors to sit back and pace themselves after a rollicking year for the American stock market. C14

Challenges for the Big Board
The New York Stock Exchange, restructuring its leadership after a year of scandal, enters this year confronting significant challenges that could undermine its dominant market position. C2

Oil Prices in the Balance
The price of oil will turn on several developments around the world, among them the rise of China's economy, whether the United States dollar continues falling as many in the industry expect and political uncertainty in nations with substantial oil reserves: Iraq, Russia, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia. C13

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A wounded United Nations; assessing Mayor Bloomberg's year; Adam Cohen on a community of ex-cons that shows how to bring prisoners back into society.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E45
TV Listings E37
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIRLINES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); HAITI (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



38 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 767 words

PERSON: Reginald Harold Jones 

HEADLINE: Reginald Harold Jones, 86, Dies; Led General Electric 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Reginald Harold Jones, who guided General Electric in the 1970's through a phase of managerial changes and shifting focus toward new materials like plastics, died Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family reported. 
 He was 86. 
 Born in Britain and raised in the United States, Mr. Jones was considered the model of the button-down, sharp-pencil corporate executive. He led the General Electric Company as chief executive and chairman from 1973 to 1981. Following Fred J. Borch (1967 to 1972), he was the seventh man to lead the company, which is based in Fairfield, Conn. He, in turn, was succeeded by John F. Welch Jr. (1981 to 2001), who would foster a more abrasive, earnings-oriented period for the company. 
Still, it was Mr. Jones who sought out and groomed Mr. Welch, who as a younger man marshaled the forces of technology, production and marketing that catapulted G.E. into a leading position among plastics manufacturers during the Jones years.
Over all the company fared well under Mr. Jones. Yearly revenues more than doubled, to $22 billion from $10 billion, and earnings rose to $1.4 billion from $572 million. His personal attention to world trade was reflected in an intensifying thrust into foreign markets.
Per share earnings increased at a compound annual rate of 12.2 percent a year from 1972 to 1981, when he retired. (The G.E. stock price nonetheless declined 21 percent over the nine years, a drop attributed to investor disenchantment with stocks generally, rather than the company's operations.)
In 1980, U.S. News & World Report ranked Mr. Jones as the most influential man in business. Among his platforms were the chairmanships of the Business Council and the President's Export Council in 1979 to 1980, and the co-chairmanship of the Business Roundtable from 1974 to 1980. An adviser to four presidents from Richard M. Nixon to Ronald Reagan, he sat on committees guiding White House policies on labor-management and international monetary reform in the 1970's.
Retiring from G.E., he removed himself from the scene at the company, leaving it to the man he had been a mentor to, Mr. Welch. But he remained active as a director in other corporations like Merck, General Signal, General Re and Federated Department Stores. He also pursued an earlier interest in academia, having once thought of taking up teaching as a profession. He became a life trustee of his alma mater, the University of Pennsylvania, and trustee emeritus in 1987. He served on development committees, headed the resources committee and, for 14 years, the board of overseers of the Wharton School.
He established a scholarship in his and his wife's name. In his honor, General Electric financed the Reginald H. Jones Center for Management Policy, Strategy and Organization at the Wharton School, which opened in 1983.
Reg Jones, born in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England, was brought to this country at age 8. His father, a steel mill worker turned electrician, settled the family in Trenton.
He went to the Wharton School on a scholarship, supplemented with odd jobs, and graduated with a bachelor of science degree in economics in 1939. Along the way, he met and, in 1940, married a fellow student, Grace Butterfield Cole, who survives him.
Other survivors include a son, the Rev. Keith E. Jones of Summit, N.J.; a daughter, Grace S. J. Vineyard of Hendersonville, N.C.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
Reg Jones started work at G.E. in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1939. He went through management training and, as a traveling auditor for eight years, got a look at nearly every company plant in the country. 
Next, he managed parts of G.E.'s highly diversified operations, running the gamut from the air-conditioning division to utilities, construction and distribution. By 1961 he was a vice president of the parent company and in 1968 its chief financial officer.
He became senior vice president in 1970 and president two years later. In 1972 he also took over as chairman and chief executive.
During his tenure, and with Mr. Welch's operational support, the company's business mix gradually shifted toward materials, natural resources, services and transportation -- away from its former emphasis on electrical equipment and appliances. By 1980, those growth businesses accounted for 53 percent of G.E.'s profits, compared with 20 percent in 1968.
On the managerial side, Mr. Jones was credited with similar innovations. He carved the company into scores of strategic business sectors and, along the way, made planning an art form. Those reforms remain in place, too, the company said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Welch Jr., left, with Reginald Harold Jones in 1981. Mr. Jones was a mentor to Mr. Welch, who became chairman of General Electric. (Photo by General Electric) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (78%); PLASTICS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (63%); RETAILERS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (93%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%); MACY'S INC (53%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (93%); GEC (LSE) (93%); GE (SWX) (93%); GE (NYSE) (93%); M (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

JACK WELCH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (78%); RICHARD NIXON (50%) Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2004 



39 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: Cultural Theorists, Start Your Epitaphs 

BYLINE:  By DINITIA SMITH

DATELINE: DUBLIN 

 BODY:
Get the critic Terry Eagleton in the right mood, and he will sing his song about literary theory for you. The ditty may seem nonsensical, but just imagine the round-faced and gray-bearded Mr. Eagleton singing in a mellow baritone to the tune of "Somethin' Stupid":
 "Nostalgic petit-bourgeois social democrat subjectivist empiricist,/I saw the light of day," he sings, ending the verse, "Until I went and spoiled it all by writing something stupid in New Left Review." 
 "The song is fiction, ironic," said Mr. Eagleton, 60. "It reflects a growing desperation." 
Yes, desperation about literary theory, from one of the most prominent cultural critics around; from a man whose best-selling academic book "Literary Theory: An Introduction" (1983) has for two decades been the classic text that professors assign to give graduate students an overview of modern literary criticism. 
But now the postmodernist giants -- like Jacques Derrida and Roland Barthes -- are over, he says. 
"The golden age of cultural theory is long past," Mr. Eagleton writes in his new book, "After Theory" (Basic Books), to be published in the United States in January. In this age of terrorism, he says, cultural theory has become increasingly irrelevant, because theorists have failed to address the big questions of morality, metaphysics, love, religion, revolution, death and suffering. 
Today graduate students and professors are bogged down in relativism, writing about sex and the body instead of the big issues. "On the wilder shores of academia," he writes, "an interest in French philosophy has given way to a fascination with French kissing." 
His critique goes further. "The postmodern prejudice against norms, unities and consensuses is a politically catastrophic one," he writes. Cultural theorists can no longer "afford simply to keep recounting the same narratives of class, race and gender, indispensable as these topics are."
What Mr. Eagleton, one of the few remaining Marxist critics, wants now is a search for absolutes, for norms, for answers to what he calls "fundamental questions of truth and love in order to meet the urgencies of our global situation." 
His published declaration, already out in Britain, has received a mixed hearing. Allen Lane wrote in The Independent that the book's "huge achievement is to show just how formidable a presence the Marxist cultural critic can be."
But Noel Malcolm, writing in The Sunday Telegraph, dismissed "After Theory" as "a mixture of reformist Marxism, 'virtue' ethics and some Thought-for-the Day meditations on love and death." And Eric Griffiths wrote in The Times Literary Supplement that the book "can only confirm the confused popular image of an intellectual as someone happy to mouth off about anything at a moment's notice." 
Mr. Eagleton is used to criticism (Prince Charles once referred to him as "that dreadful Terry Eagleton") and he shrugs off the latest attacks, calling them "the standard set of criticisms of the left." He spoke as he was sitting at the kitchen table of his 19th-century Georgian-style row house in Dublin, where he livespart of the year, with his wife, Willa Murphy, a lecturer in English at the University of Ulster, in Londonderry and Coleraine; they have a 6-year-old son, Oliver. (Mr. Eagleton has two grown sons from a previous marriage.) 
He is unrepentant in his defense of Marxism, which, he writes, offers the blueprint for a moral society. For Marx, "questions of good and bad had been falsely abstracted from their social contexts, and had to be restored to them again," he writes, adding, "In this sense, Marx was a moralist in the classical sense of the word." 
Nowadays Mr. Eagleton lives the life of an academic superstar, jetting about the world from one academic conference to another. He has an apartment in Manchester as well as his home in Dublin and an 18th-century rectory near Londonderry, in Northern Ireland.
Over the years Mr. Eagleton has been a prolific writer, editor and co-editor of dozens of books. He has published a novel, "Saints and Scholars," about Wittgenstein in Ireland, which was made into a film, "Wittgenstein," by Derek Jarman, with a screenplay by Mr. Jarman and Mr. Eagleton. He has also written a play, "St. Oscar," about Oscar Wilde, who is one of his heroes. 
Mr. Eagleton suggests that some of his Marxism may spring from his childhood as the son of a factory worker of Irish descent in Salford, England, near Manchester. 
The family was poor, the air clogged with industrial effluvia. Two brothers died in infancy. He has two sisters, who became English teachers. 
Mr. Eagleton had asthma. "In common with the North of England working class we were a good few inches below average height," he wrote in his 2001 memoir, "The Gatekeeper" (St. Martin's Griffin), "like a herd of extras from 'The Wizard of Oz.' "
"The Gatekeeper" takes its title from Mr. Eagleton's duties as an altar boy at a Carmelite convent. After young nuns took their vows, they said goodbye to their parents forever. He escorted grieving parents who were never to see their daughters again, out the door.
He attended a Catholic grammar school run by the De La Salle Brothers, with a headmaster whom he describes as "a white-haired career sadist from an undistinguished Irish town." 
He recalled how his father had won a place at grammar school but couldn't afford to go. His father had wanted him to go to Cambridge, but, he said, "he died on the brink of my going." He says this left him with an abiding guilt and a sense that he had leapt over his father's dead body to achieve success. 
At Cambridge Mr. Eagleton's tutor was an old-world aristocrat. (In "The Gatekeeper" he gives him the pseudonym Dr. Greenway.) He "by and large preferred works of art and herbaceous borders to human beings," Mr. Eagleton writes, "but he was unfailingly courteous and considerate, even when we threw up our mulled claret over his pixie-like feet at his parties." 
In his first year the man called him "Eagleton," in his second, "Terence," in his third, "Terry." "Perhaps if I had stayed on at his college beyond my undergraduate years, this escalating intimacy would have reached its natural conclusion in 'sweetiepie,' " he writes. 
"I found him ridiculous," Mr. Eagleton said, "but I was almost embarrassed by how much he meant to me." The two debated Marxism. 
The Marxist cultural historian Raymond Williams later became his intellectual mentor and got him a teaching position. 
Still, he detested Cambridge, he said. He discovered a home in the new Catholic left, coming under the influence of a radical Dominican friar, Laurence Bright, and he helped found the leftist Catholic journal Slant. After Bright died, and Slant folded in the early 70's, Mr. Eagleton gave up formal religion, finding the organized church too autocratic and hidebound, he said.
Still, his work is shadowed by Roman Catholicism. Mr. Eagleton seems to find a confluence between his interpretation of Marxism and Christianity, in a shared ethic of cooperativism, and protection of the poor and the weak. He cites one of Paul's letters to the Corinthians: "God chose what is weakest in the world to shame the strong." Morality begins with a recognition of one's weakness and mortality, Mr. Eagleton says. He uses the example of King Lear, who is redeemed only after he has endured the storm on the heath and understands is own vulnerability. 
Although Mr. Eagleton remains vague about what his longed-for absolute truths would look like, he writes that an ethical society can only happen under socialism, "in which each attains his or her freedom and autonomy in and through the self-realization of others."
And he defends Marxists against the familiar litany of crimes. 
"If you want the most trenchant account of Stalinism you have to go to Marxism, not liberalism," he said. "Stalinism wasn't, from our point of view, radical enough. Long before Tiananmen Square the mainstream Marxists were saying the Soviet system is a travesty. You can't build Communism in backward conditions. You need international support. You need a society with a liberal democracy. Marx always saw socialism in continuity with middle-class democracy."
So what is his advice, specifically? "Get out of NATO. Get rid of capitalism. Put the economy back into public ownership."
Since 2001, Mr. Eagleton has been a professor of cultural theory at Manchester University, near where he grew up. He left Oxford after more than 30 years, a place he said he hated. In "The Gatekeeper" he refers to the faculty as "petulant, snobbish, spiteful, arrogant, autocratic and ferociously self-centered."
Still, Mr. Eagleton became involved with radical politics there and joined the Socialist Workers Party. He was known for his exuberant lectures, and organized an Irish singing group where his song on literary theory was born.
He said he left "with as much regret as if it were the day I went in."
Despite his new book, Mr. Eagleton said that the golden age of cultural theory was not all for naught. "We provided an important left intellectual core at a time when other things got more conservative," he said.
Yet what theorists have forgotten, he said, is the importance of the system to people's lives. "You need the satirist and the debunker," he said. "But you need constructive politics, too."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Arts & Ideas on Saturday about the literary critic Terry Eagleton misidentified the British newspaper critic who praised his new book, "After Theory," in The Independent. It was D. J. Taylor. (Allen Lane was the founder of Penguin Books and of the Penguin imprint that published Mr. Eagleton's book in Britain.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Terry Eagleton (holding papers) after a lecture at Maynooth University, in Ireland. He is professor of cultural theory at Manchester University. (Photo by Derek Speirs for The New York Times)(pg. B9); The cultural theorist Terry Eagleton near his home in Dublin. (Photo by Derek Speirs for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%); ETHICS (73%); TERRORISM (51%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (51%) IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



40 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Iran Puts Off U.S. Help For Earthquake Relief
Iran has put "in abeyance" an offer from the United States to assist in the distribution of relief supplies after the earthquake in Bam. The government in Tehran cited the overwhelming difficulties facing relief workers, and did not rule out the possibility of a future visit. A1

U.S. Helicopter Downed in Iraq
Insurgents shot down an American military helicopter in Iraq, killing one crewman. Demonstrators gathered to protest a raid on a mosque in which American troops arrested a prominent Sunni cleric and seized a weapons stockpile. A3

The number of journalists who died on assignment rose sharply last year, largely because of the increased hazards of working in Iraq. Thirteen journalists were killed by hostile actions in Iraq last year, and six others died as a result of traffic accidents or illness. A3

Norway Arrests Islamic Leader
The Norwegian police arrested Mullah Krekar, the spiritual leader of an Islamic militant group, on charges of attempted murder in connection with two suicide bombings in Iraq two years ago. A3

North Korean Nuclear Scrutiny
A private delegation of American experts will travel to North Korea and possibly visit a nuclear weapons facility. The trip comes at a pivotal moment in multilateral talks on how to deal with North Korea. A1

Cambodian Pleads Ignorance
One of the Khmer Rouge's top leaders, Khieu Samphan, is pleading ignorance as Cambodia moves closer to convening a trial for the deaths of 1.7 million people under the movement's brutal rule in the 1970's. Cambodians and foreign experts scoffed at his denials. A4

Welfare in Latin America
Latin American governments are giving the poor small cash payments if they keep their children in school and take them for regular medical checkups. A1

NATIONAL A9-12

Flight Cancellations Draw Criticism From U.S. Allies
British Airways canceled more flights to and from the United States as the Bush administration faced questions from American allies about the reliability of the intelligence information that has led to a rash of flight cancellations. A1

New Mayor and Rails in Houston
Bill White rolled into City Hall as Houston's new mayor. Houstonians also welcomed a new light-rail system that was a contentious quarter century in the making. A9

Cattle Tracking System Plans
An animal identification system that the Agriculture Department has said it would begin putting in place immediately to help safeguard the meat supply against mad cow disease is expected to take a year or two to phase in, an official said. A9

Lieberman Courts Female Vote
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, seeking to boost his appeal among women, unveiled a new plan to protect and support victims of domestic violence and to diminish the prevalence of family abuse. A12

Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean's Democratic opponents are trying to make his temperament an issue. A12

Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri mounted an aggressive attack on Howard Dean as he vigorously defended his signature plan to provide health insurance to all Americans. A12

ARTS & IDEAS B7-24

Questions on Jackson Advisor
Leonard Muhammad, 58, a Nation of Islam official who is said to be running many of Michael Jackson's affairs, has a history of failed businesses, fraud allegations and unpaid tax bills, according to public records and newspaper investigations. B7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Synagogue Threat Letter Is Said to Be a Hoax
The Union County, N.J., prosecutor said a letter that threatened one of New Jersey's largest synagogues, prompting authorities to station a cordon of officers in riot gear around it on Tuesday, was written by someone involved in a domestic dispute, possibly a contentious divorce. B6

Inquiry in Firehouse Dispute
The Fire Department is investigating whether supervisors violated protocol by not informing superiors about a New Year's Eve fight that left a firefighter critically injured. B1

Well Known Bronx Cafe Closes
Jimmy's Bronx Cafe, a banquet hall, restaurant and nightclub on Fordham Road that drew everyone from Yankee infielders to Bronx politicos to Fidel Castro, closed its doors for good on New Year's Eve. B1

Beliefs B6

Neediest Cases B5

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Craft Collects Dust From Comet
A spacecraft flew through a cloud of dust and gas surrounding a comet, capturing particles from the early solar system to be brought back to Earth, mission officials said. A11

SPORTS D1-6

Fiesta, Cotton, Peach, Orange
Oklahoma State beat Kansas State, 35-28, in the Fiesta Bowl. D1

Mississippi beat Oklahoma State, 31-28, in the Cotton Bowl. Clemson defeated Tennessee, 27-14 at the Peach Bowl. Miami beat Florida State, 16-14, in the Orange Bowl. D3

OBITUARIES A13

Maxine Postal
The Suffolk County, N.Y., legislative leader who resigned this week because of failing health was 61. A13

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

U.S. Manufacturing Increases
The Institute for Supply Management's index of manufacturing activity surged to a 20-year high last month, a sign that the economic revival that began in the second half of last year should continue. C1

Instant Messaging Marches On
Instant messaging, long embraced by teenagers, has now been tried by about half of American adults and psychologists see signs that it has improved communications between parents and children. A1

Consultants Seek Work Abroad
Many consulting firms that have been hit hard by the reluctance of companies to spend on big information technology projects have turned to advising companies about moving white-collar jobs overseas. C1

Bank Expects S.E.C. Charges
Bank of America said its securities arm may face civil action by the Securities and Exchange Commission over alleged record-keeping violations. C3

Stocks Begin Year Mixed
The Dow fell 44.07 points to 10,409.85, 85.18 points above last week's close. The Nasdaq rose 3.31 points to 2,006.68, 33.54 points higher than last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Immigration reform; Indonesia's secret war; Brent Staples on the battle against junk mail and spyware on the Web.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge B10
TV Listings B24
Crossword B20
Weather D7

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture by The Associated Press in Arts & Ideas on Saturday with an article about the involvement of Leonard Farrakhan Muhammad, the chief of staff to the Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, in the business affairs of the pop star Michael Jackson was mislabeled by the news agency and published in error. (It also appeared in the News Summary.) It showed Ishmael Muhammad, a minister of the Nation of Islam and son of its former leader, Elijah Muhammad.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (91%); RELIGION (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MAYORS (84%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MURDER (76%); HELICOPTERS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); GENOCIDE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (65%); MAMMALS (64%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (60%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); CAMBODIA (93%); IRAN (92%); NORWAY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 #031T040105SL04A01# 



41 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Houston Inaugurates Mayor And a Long-Awaited Train 

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Bill White rolled into City Hall on Friday as residents here welcomed the new year with a new mayor and a new light-rail system a contentious quarter century in the making. 
 The soft-spoken Mr. White, 49, is a wealthy investor and former energy official in the Clinton administration who was all but unknown to voters here a year ago. But he rode to his inauguration as Houston's 60th mayor on one of the sleek electric cars of MetroRail, the city's fledgling, $324 million venture into rapid transit. 
 The first 7.5 miles of what planners see as a 47-mile, $8 billion network by 2019 opened on Thursday with free rides. Travelers thronged the snub-nosed blue and silver cars, and many people were unable to board on the 14 platforms between the University of Houston campus downtown and Reliant Stadium, where the Super Bowl will be held on Feb. 1. 
Early Thursday, the maiden voyage was piloted by the departing mayor, Lee P. Brown, 66, a former police chief in Houston, Atlanta and New York. Mr. Brown pushed for the rail link as a hallmark of his six-year, three-term administration, the maximum allowed by city law, and speeded the work up by almost a year so he could drive the first train. 
"I think it's a great way to get to the inauguration," a beaming Mr. White told crowded fellow riders as the train whooshed along street-level tracks at the legal speed of city traffic, no more than 40 miles an hour, although it was capable of going 66. 
"Houston is always changing," he said. "It can't be recognized one period of 30 years to the next."
Traffic congestion has been high on the list of irritants here in the nation's fourth largest city, which has long been a monument to the automobile and was the last big urban holdout against rapid transit. Mr. White said his first task would be to resynchronize traffic signals and speed up the roadwork that seems to be reconstructing all major thoroughfares at once. 
When the train stopped at Hermann Park, near Rice University and the sprawling Texas Medical Center, Mr. White, his wife, Andrea, and their three school-age children, Stephen, Elena and Will, joined an exuberant procession of Chinese dragon dancers, Fire Department bagpipers and drummers, and City Council members and their families. They were there for another first: the swearing in at the Miller Outdoor Theater, a venue for concerts.
Mr. White said Houston was "America's great city of opportunity" and called on residents to keep championing diversity and tolerance.
"Make a special effort to get to know as friends, not just acquaintances, someone from a different background," he said.
The audience of about 1,500 people gave a cheer when the announcer summoned the new controller, Annise Parker, to be sworn in alongside her partner, Kathy Hubbard.
The mayoral election was strongly contested by candidates representing the three, roughly equal, major voting blocs: non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics and African-Americans. But it was significantly devoid of racial or ethnic animosity. Mr. White, who is white, drew support across the board and won the endorsement of Mr. Brown, the city's first African-American mayor.
"I'm delighted," Mr. Brown said in an interview after the inauguration. "He'll do a good job for the city." 
To serve as mayor, Mr. White gave up his job as president and chief executive officer of the Wedge Group, a consortium with multibillion-dollar investments in oil and gas, engineering and construction and real estate companies. A former chairman of the Texas Democratic Party and deputy energy secretary in the Clinton administration, hebegan his race for mayor as the underdog and spent a record $8.6 million, including $2.3 million of his own money, to blanket the airwaves with campaign messages that touted his managerial experience.
In his inaugural address, Mr. White praised the opportunities the city offers. He recalled first coming to Houston with his family from San Antonio and visiting the Humble Oil building, then the tallest building west of the Mississippi. 
"Those lights looked so bright and the city looked so big to that little boy who was 10 years old on top of that building," he said. "Fifteen years later I came back here with nothing but the values and education bestowed on me by my family." Not long afterward, he said, he was running the building next door. 
The opening of the rail link marks a triumph in a process that began 25 years ago with the founding of Houston's Metro agency. The goal was to expand mass transit after the demise of the trolley system in 1940, a victim, like networks around the country, of highway, bus and gasoline interests. Over the years, many opponents of rail service said the money would be better spent expanding highways. One group, the Business Committee Against Rail, fought a recent referendum on expanding the system 22 miles by asserting that investing the next $2.8 billion appropriation could generate enough interest to give every prospective rail rider a new Lexus. But voters gave the rail expansion their blessing in September.
The trains are scheduled to run every 12 minutes. The hours are in flux, but the Web site lists 5 a.m. to 10 p.m. for now. Rides cost $1 and transfers to intersecting bus lines are free. 
On Thursday and Friday, thousands flocked to the stations for free test runs before the fare kicked in on Monday. During tests in recent weeks, the biggest hazard was train-car collisions. In the five accidents, none serious, motorists made illegal turns across the tracks or failed to stop for an oncoming train.
So far, reaction seems largely positive. "Very smooth, roomy on the inside," said Matt Helfrich, an unemployed welder from Houston who had ridden back and forth several times.
Carlene Gordon, a church worker from the suburb of Pasadena, said that while it did not help her commute an expansion might. "We need to come out of the horse-and-buggy era, the cow-town mentality," she said.
Moments later, the train came to an unexpected halt at the Ensemble station, about midway along the route. "This train is out of service, please unload this train," came the announcement. Conductors on the platform said someone had pulled an emergency brake. "Folks," one said, "do not pull this hammer. Nobody can go anywhere."
Five minutes later, the order came to reboard and the train lurched forward. "Yea!" people cheered.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Passengers crowding onto a MetroRail train Thursday, the same day Bill White rode the line to his swearing-in as mayor. The system was so busy on its opening days that travelers could not board at some platforms. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); TRAINS (89%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SPEED LIMITS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); CHILDREN (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



42 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's Secret War 

 BODY:
The guerrilla war in the Indonesian province of Aceh has raged on and off for more than 25 years, but it has now gone underground. In May, the government broke off peace talks, declared martial law and sent in 40,000 troops. Since then, Aceh has been virtually sealed off. Foreign journalists, human rights groups and diplomats cannot enter. For months, the government even barred groups like Unicef and the World Food Program, which provide relief to besieged civilians. Indonesian journalists can travel in Aceh, but intimidation from the military and political pressures have kept them from reporting more than official pronouncements. Local human rights groups, harassed by soldiers, have gone into hiding. 
 Indonesian officials claim that they bar foreigners for their own security. Indeed, in the past, some have been kidnapped by the guerrillas, the Free Aceh Movement. But the dangers of Aceh come overwhelmingly from the army and the paramilitary police. Even when plenty of watchdogs were present, Aceh was a killing field, with a murder or kidnapping reported every day, and probably an equal number going unreported. Eighty to 90 percent of those crimes were committed by government forces. Lesser crimes were also rampant, as soldiers supplemented their low pay through looting and extortion. 
 Today government troops in Aceh enjoy even greater powers and virtually no scrutiny. In some cases, they have records of brutality in the 1999 war in East Timor. One major general was sentenced to prison for war crimes but, mysteriously, still serves in Aceh. Before the news blackout, humanitarian agencies reported that hundreds of schools had been burned down. No one knows by whom, and there has been no investigation. In October and November, Human Rights Watch interviewed 85 recent refugees from Aceh who landed in Malaysia. The refugees are not a representative sample of Aceh's population, but each of them claimed to have been a victim of or a witness to abuses by troops.
Some Indonesian officials deny the abuses. But one former defense minister, now an ambassador, argued instead that troops could simply not be controlled in such a war. The government in Jakarta clearly thinks that it has little reason to try. The war is enormously popular with ordinary Indonesians, who consider the loss of East Timor a national humiliation. Aceh has oil and gas, which the Indonesian government needs.
In Washington, the State Department has publicly criticized Indonesia's conduct in Aceh and said that the war cannot be won militarily and must end through negotiations. But the Bush administration does not want to offend a partner against terrorism, so it has been reluctant to apply pressures that would really matter: protesting the use of American weapons, like F-16's, in Aceh, and making respect for human rights a condition for the aid it gives, like weapons for the police and training for the military.
The abusive conduct damages Indonesia's cause. Acehnese separatism began as a struggle for political and economic autonomy. But now the war is about the war -- the Acehnese join or support the guerrillas because of the army's brutality. Measures to control the behavior of troops, protect civilians and allow observers to enter Aceh have no powerful constituency in Jakarta or elsewhere. But they are crucial to persuading the Acehnese to abandon separatism and the guerrilla war, and to negotiate an agreement that will keep them part of Indonesia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); ARMIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXTORTION (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PRISONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); SENTENCING (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); MURDER (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (57%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%) INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



43 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
The Asian Battle for Russia's Oil and Gas

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: VOSTOCHNY, Russia 

 BODY:
For now, Krylova Cape is not much to see: a spit of land between the Russian taiga forest and the Sea of Japan, its soil being graded a bit by a bright yellow bulldozer. But what is taking shape here is central to a pitched struggle between the two most important economies in Asia: the reigning titan, Japan, and its rising challenger, China.
 Both economies are hungry for raw materials, especially energy -- Japan because it has almost none of its own, China because its economic boom has fast outstripped what once were adequate domestic supplies. Both want to limit their dependence on oil from distant, politically volatile regions like the Middle East. And both see an attractive alternative in the little-tapped energy riches of the vast, vacant Russian Far East. 
 Getting oil to market from the remote East Siberian fields that Russia is ready to develop means spending billions on a pipeline. Japan and China are fighting hard over where that pipeline will go: either to China's northeastern industrial heartland, or to this stretch of Russian shoreline, where a new deep-water oil terminal will be just one day's tanker cruise from Japan. 
With the choice Russia faces, the political and economic dynamics of Northeast Asia stand to be profoundly shaped for years to come. 
"The Chinese will be furious if the Russians do not give them the pipeline," said Graham Hutchings, an Asian specialist with the British consulting group Oxford Analytica. And no one expects it to be the last time Japan and China collide over the resources they both need.
China has been talking to Russia about Siberian oil for a decade, and its need has grown acute. It is on a pace to overtake Japan next year as the world's second-largest oil consumer, and to catch the leader, the United States, sometime around 2030, by quintupling its current demand. Energy shortages plague the country, with 21 provinces experiencing rationing and blackouts so far this fall and winter, twice as many as last year. A Russia-China pipeline, Chinese officials say, would be a natural north-south marriage between Asia's largest oil exporter and what will soon be Asia's largest oil importer. 
Japan, whose demand for oil is slowly falling because of anemic growth and a shift from manufacturing, came later to the game, making a serious alternative proposal only a year ago. But it has steadily sweetened its bid, while the financing of the Chinese plan remains fuzzy. Japan now is offering to put up $5 billion for pipeline construction and another $2 billion for oil field development, while holding out the prospect that a pipeline to the Sea of Japan could handle oil exports to America, too.
The pipeline rivalry offers a taste of more battles to come, as China moves aggressively to secure access to resources it needs to keep wheels spinning in "the factory to the world." 
Moving around Asia, China is financing copper and coal mines in Mongolia, building another oil pipeline in Kazakhstan, negotiating over gas development in Turkmenistan, buying gas fields and signing long-term supply contracts in Australia and Indonesia and buying steel in South Korea.
So far, the biggest market impact has been on industrial commodities like coal, copper and iron ore. Many have reversed long declines and started rising, as Japanese, Taiwanese and South Korean manufacturers find themselves competing with China for supplies and bidding prices up. But in oil, Japan and China are competing over more than just price.
"We are about to enter an age in which Japan and China scramble for oil," Yoichi Funabashi, international affairs columnist for Japan's Asahi Shimbun, wrote recently. "China acts, and Japan reacts. Now, we are losing the oil race."
In Japan's rush to get in on Siberian oil development, it has all but ignored the inconvenient diplomatic fact that Japan and Russia never signed a peace treaty after World War II. For decades, the sticking point has been Japanese claims over four islands in the Kurile chain north of Hokkaido that Soviet forces seized in the autumn of 1945. 
"Energy security, energy diversity, energy from across the Japan Sea is sufficiently important to move the Kurile Islands way down the list" of priorities, said Stephen O'Sullivan, head of oil and gas research at UFG, a Moscow-based investment bank. 
Japan has quietly decided to deal with the island question separately and not let it block economic relations with Russia. "It is the issue which is being left aside," Vladimir I. Ivanov, a Russian economist, said by telephone from Niigata, Japan, where he researches regional energy issues. "Nobody wants to link the islands with the pipeline project."
In Moscow, advocates of a China pipeline say that binding Russia and China together in economic interdependence would be good for regional stability, on the model of Canada and the United States. Similar reasoning helped propel a $17 billion project to build a 3,055-mile natural gas pipeline from eastern Siberia to serve northeast China and South Korea, which won initial approval in November.
China's voracious appetite for energy is also lighting a competitive fire under Japan's conservative electric utilities, which have been slow to commit to new development projects. Exxon Mobil tried for years with little success to interest Japanese utilities in a 1,200-mile gas pipeline from its gas development on Sakhalin Island, Russia, to Tokyo.
Interest suddenly perked up when Exxon Mobil let it be known that it was studying an alternative 1,000-mile pipeline to Harbin, China. China has also plunged ahead with deals to bring in more liquefied natural gas from Indonesia and Australia, where Japan also buys gas.
"Japan Inc. is thinking that there is no shortage of supply, that there will be another bus in a minute," Mr. O'Sullivan said. "China is building terminals."
The yellow bulldozer's grading work here will not be in vain, whatever Moscow decides. Krylova Cape is at the eastern end of the Trans-Siberian Railroad. Next year, work will begin in earnest on the oil terminal, with plans for 140,000 barrels of oil a day to reach the port by rail for shipment to Japan and elsewhere. 
"Krylova Cape is a good spot," Viktor S. Gnedzilov, mayor of Nakhodka, the municipality that oversees the cape and this port, said in an interview. "There is the railroad. The piers can be extended one kilometer. We expect that vessels up to 300,000 tons could come to the pier. It would be a colossal benefit for Nakhodka -- jobs, businesses, development, foreign investments."
In Russia's thinly populated Far East, the Japanese pipeline is seen as a counterbalance to China, a partner Russians view with some misgivings.
"Many people here believe Japan is a more predictable country," said Alexei Kabanchenko, spokesman for Nakhodka, a Slavic outpost whose billboards proclaim: "Russia starts here."
Many Russian officials, including President Vladimir V. Putin, have also said that Russia would gain economic clout if East Siberian oil were to be sold on the world market rather than to just one customer, China.
"We had a cruel lesson with a gas pipeline to Turkey," Viktor V. Gorchakov, regional vice governor for economic affairs, said in Vladivostok, the regional capital. Once it was built, he said, the Turks reneged on earlier agreements. 
"They told us, 'We don't need gas, cut the prices down,"' he said. "You get a lesson like that once. But not again." 
For their part, Chinese officials say that the Russians risk hitching their future to a fading partner if they choose Japan. They express frustration that the question has not yet been decided. 
"We really put high importance on that pipeline," said Yang Bojiang, Northeast Asian studies director of the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations, on a recent visit to Tokyo. "When we faced them at first, I thought they were sincere," Mr. Yang said of the Russian negotiators. "Now, I think they are probably playing a game. The Japanese have been promising to pay more."
President Hu Jintao thought he had won the pipeline last May when he visited Moscow and signed a communique with Mr. Putin endorsing the Chinese route. On the same visit, a Chinese state-owned oil company signed a 20-year, $150 billion agreement with Yukos, Russia's largest oil company, in which Yukos promised to supply China with 400,000 barrels of oil a day by 2005, and 600,000 barrels a day by 2010. The Russian national railway system also announced recently that it would expand sixfold its capacity for shipping oil to China. 
But China lost an important advocate in Moscow on Oct. 25, when Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the chief executive of Yukos, was arrested on charges of tax evasion and fraud. Now political winds seem to blow Japan's way: the regional governors in the Russian Far East are lobbying hard for the Japan route. Mr. Putin's own representative in the region, Konstantin Pulikovsky, favors it so strongly that he once called himself "a Japanese ambassador."
Still, the decision may come down to economics, not politics. 
The China route proposed by Yukos would be shorter, faster and cheaper: 1,400 miles long and about $2.8 billion and seven years to build, compared with 2,300 miles, about $5.8 billion and a decade to build the Japan route.
The Japanese pipeline would be larger -- a million barrels a day rather than 600,000 -- but many Russians from President Putin on down wonder whether enough oil can be produced in East Siberia to fill it. Advocates say that, given advances in oil exploration and production technology, building the pipeline would make it feasible to explore and develop new fields believed to lie east of Lake Baikal but not worth pursuing in the past.
Despite a strong showing by economic nationalists in Russia's Dec. 7 parliamentary elections, the energy minister, Igor Yosufov, is encouraging joint ventures with Japanese companies to explore eastern reserves now listed as probable rather than proven. Confirming their potential would add weight to the argument for a Sea of Japan pipeline. But disappointing results in Eastern Siberia could make a smaller pipeline to China the only viable choice.
Russia needs to develop oil exports to fulfill President Putin's promise to double the size of the nation's economy in this decade. It already produces much more oil than it needs domestically; bottlenecks in export pipelines, now straining at full capacity, have glutted the domestic market and pushed prices down to about $4.50 a barrel in Russia, only one-seventh of the world price. Transneft, the state pipeline monopoly, is working on projects to expand its export capacity to ports on the Baltic and White seas. 
As for the Far East, all eyes are now on Mr. Putin and his choice of pipeline routes, as China and Japan each try to sway him. 
Watching from a relatively neutral perch, Thomas U. Berger, a Boston University professor of international relations, said on a visit to Tokyo: "This is the great Asian oil game of the 21st century."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vostochny has access to railroads and, with piers extending far offshore, officials expect the port to be able handle vessels up to 300,000 tons.; Viktor S. Gnedzilov, mayor of Nakhodka, said "Krylova Cape is a good spot" for a pipeline. He added, "It would be a colossal benefit for Nakhodka -- jobs, businesses, development, foreign investments." (Photographs by Peter Blakely/Redux, for The New York Times)(pg. C3) Graph: "Resource Hungry"As China's economy grows, it, like Japan, is becoming a large consumer of natural resources. Graph tracks the amount of imports of crude oil from China and Japan since 1980. (Source by International Energy Agency)(pg. C3) Map of Russia highlighting the location of the proposed alternate pipeline routes: China and Japan are at odds on where a pipeline should run. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (84%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (74%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (74%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (69%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (93%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



44 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Index Reaches 20-Year High 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
An index of American manufacturing surged to its highest level in 20 years last month, providing another sign that the economic revival that began in the second half of last year should continue this year.
 The country's manufacturing sector, which had been the hardest hit since the stock market declined in 2000, has been growing for six consecutive months, according to the survey released yesterday by the Institute for Supply Management. 
 The survey's job component also indicates that 40 consecutive months of manufacturing job declines could end with the national employment report for December, which is expected Friday.
"We are taking on new projects; we see a lot going on now," said Bill Weiller, the owner of Purafil, Inc., which makes air filtration systems that eliminate toxic, corrosive, odorous and hazardous gases. "Recently we started hiring at the upper end; Ph.D.'s to develop technology and our production lines." 
The Institute of Supply Management's index of manufacturing activity jumped to 66.2 in December, from 62.8 in November, the highest since December 1983, while the employment index climbed to 55.5, from 51.
The index has now gone up 20 points in nine months. The last time that happened, in the period ending in August 1983, manufacturing was booming, Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig, said. And this is only the third time since January of 1985 that the employment index has been over 55. Mr. Barbera said that the jump in the manufacturing index "is consistent with a very strong overall economy" and provides further evidence that "the upside breakout of the economy in the third quarter is continuing."
While Mr. Barbera said that the stunning 8.2 annual rate of growth in the third quarter is not sustainable, the economic expansion should continue in the 4 percent to 5 percent range.
This kind of economic growth would help corporate earnings continue to rise and support stocks. But after the three major stock indexes posted double-digit gains last year, ending a three-year slide, both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell yesterday. The Nasdaq composite index rose slightly.
The bond market fell with the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note jumping to 4.37 percent, a sign that investors are taking the strong growth seriously. Some investors may be worrying that this level of growth could force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates sooner than expected.
But as some analysts and the data in the manufacturing index showed, this performance does not mean that the manufacturing sector, which has lost 2.8 million jobs since August 2000, is booming again or that manufacturing job growth has resumed.
"The employment index is only loosely correlated with the monthly change in manufacturing jobs," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. "So this does not guarantee a revival" in manufacturing job growth.
Norbert J. Ore, the chairman of the institute's survey committee and director of procurement at the Georgia-Pacific Corporation, said "there are still some businesses lagging and wondering when they will see the improvement that others are experiencing."
According to the survey, 17 segments of the manufacturing industry are growing, including industrial and commercial equipment and computers and electronic components and equipment. The three segments that are still declining are petroleum, chemicals and paper.
Susan Hanafee, a spokeswoman for Cummins Inc., which makes engines and power generation systems, said "we've seen increases across all segments of our business." But, she added, "we have not seen sales increases that support that level of improvement," referring to the jump in the manufacturing index.
Fletcher Steele, president of the Pine Hall Brick Company, whose brick-making plants have been running at full steam since the fall, said that many of the executives he knows have said their businesses picked up in the fall.
But he said that initially these companies only increased overtime to accommodate the new demand because executives wanted to see if this upturn was a blip or would last. Now, he said, "they have begun hiring or have said they will in the new year." While manufacturing makes up only about 11 percent of the work force, Mr. Berner said that "if manufacturing is reviving, that spills over into other parts of the economy, like services, transportation and warehousing." And, he added, that is good for the sustainability of the entire economic recovery.
He also said that a revival in manufacturing "has a strong political dimension because it could be an "antidote" to calls for protectionism. Although the Bush administration has withdrawn its tariffs on imported steel, other industries still want help against foreign competition, and there may be pressure to grant that assistance during a presidential election year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); STATISTICS (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); RETAILERS (59%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



45 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Most Share Indexes Slip on Concern Over Interest Rates

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, led by shares of financial companies on concern interest rates will rise. 
 A gauge of December manufacturing was the highest in two decades, increasing speculation the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates in the first half of this year. Stocks sensitive to changes in interest rates, including banks, retailers and homebuilders, declined. 
 "The primary threat this year to the market will be rising interest rates," said Jeremy Siegel, professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, in an interview with Bloomberg Television. "That's going to be a more telling story than earnings." 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.44 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,108.48, for the first drop in five days. Financial companies contributed the most to the decline. 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 44.07 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,409.85. The Nasdaq composite index added 3.31 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,006.68.
For the week, the S.&P. 500 added 1.2 percent and the Dow gained 0.8 percent. It's the sixth consecutive weekly advance for both benchmarks, the longest streak for the S.&P. 500 since an eight-week rally in March 1998, and the best stretch for the Dow since November 2002. The Nasdaq rose 1.7 percent.
Stocks rebounded in 2003, with the three benchmarks posting their first annual increases since 1999. More than 90 percent of the stocks in the S.&P. 500 rallied, the broadest advance in at least 23 years.
Gains in employment and other areas of the economy may cause inflation, prompting the Fed to raise its target interest rate. The economy may expand 4.4 percent this year, the fastest since 1999, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 62 economists taken Nov. 25 to Dec. 4.
Almost two-thirds of investors surveyed by Ried, Thunberg & Company last week said the Fed might raise its federal funds target interest rate in May or June. Forty percent expect the central bank to increase the rate to 1.50 percent from 1 percent.
"Long-term interest rates are rising," said John Burbank, who helps manage $330 million at Passport Capital in San Francisco. "There's going to be pretty serious inflation and most equities do not do well with inflation."
Bank of America, the third-biggest United States bank by assets, led the drop in financial shares, losing $1.34, to $79.09. The company said its securities arm might face civil action by the Securities and Exchange Commission stemming from an investigation into "certain trading activities" in the unit's San Francisco office.
Merrill Lynch declined 71 cents, to $57.94; Morgan Stanley fell 89 cents, to $56.98; Wells Fargo dropped 72 cents, to $58.17; and Washington Mutual fell 51 cents, to $39.61.
Centex, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by stock market value, lost $3.25, to $104.40. KB Home shed $1.98, to $70.54.
Among retailers, Wal-Mart Stores fell 75 cents, to $52.30, and Kohl's declined $1.08, to $43.86. Home Depot declined 47 cents, to $35.02.
The Institute for Supply Management's factory index showed a reading of 66.2, the highest in 20 years. The average estimate of 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 61, after a reading of 62.8 in November.
More companies placed orders than at anytime since 1950, prompting factories to raise production and hire workers.
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note declined 27/32, to a price of 99 29/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.37 percent from 4.25 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 1 13/32, to 103. The bond's yield rose to 5.17 percent from 5.07 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); RETAILERS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



46 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Niagara's Trickle-Down Theory: Waiting to Share Casino's Success 

BYLINE:  By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y., Jan. 2 

 BODY:
A year after the opening of western New York's first casino, the drinks are flowing in a decidedly Niagara-like way at Cafe Etc., a martini bar that Steve Fournier Jr. opened just around the corner.
 But last Monday, Mr. Fournier's father closed his pizza shop next door after nearly a quarter-century of operating businesses in the decaying downtown tourist district. 
 The mixed fortunes of the Fourniers are a mirror of the city's as it waits to find out whether the Seneca Niagara Casino will live up to the hopes raised on New Year's Eve 2002 as the first coins dropped in the slot machines: that the Indian-owned gambling hall would help lift Niagara Falls out of its economic tailspin. 
Steve Fournier Sr. said the steady exodus of industrial and white-collar jobs over the last 30 years had eroded his customer base. "The casino helped," Mr. Fournier, 52, said as he cleaned out his pizza kitchen. "But it didn't help enough to make up for what we had lost previously." 
His son, however, planned on drawing casino workers and executives rather than counting on gamblers to tear themselves away from the slot machines and blackjack tables. He took a former dance club, restored its vintage wood bar, scrubbed and painted it, and started booking live jazz acts. So far, the plan seems to be working.
 "Any time you've got 2,000 people working down the street from this kind of place, it's got to be good for business," said Mr. Fournier, 31.
 No one doubts the casino is thriving. It took in $4 billion during its first year, casino officials say, and draws an estimated crowd of 10,000 to 12,000 people on weekdays, and double that on weekends. 
But it remains to be seen whether the booming trade will spill out beyond the curved shell, reminiscent of an oversize Quonset hut, that houses the gambling operation. 
Even the casino's strongest advocates concede that the kind of development boom that transformed the city's Canadian neighbor -- Niagara Falls in Ontario -- after a casino opened there in 1996 has yet to take place on the American side.
 "It's helped some businesses in the area, but I don't think the general economy of the city has changed at this point," said Mayor Vince V. Anello, who was sworn in on Thursday. "It's certainly brought new attention to our city and attracted new investors."
 A state-financed effort to turn a long-vacant downtown building a block from the casino into a high-tech meeting center is scheduled to be completed in the spring. 
On Dec. 26, officials of the Seneca Gaming Corporation, which operates the casino, announced plans to build a 26-story, $140 million hotel, restaurant and entertainment complex adjacent to the casino. Some fear that the new complex will siphon customers from other hotels and businesses downtown, without providing revenue to help rebuild the city around it, because the 55-acre parcel owned by the Seneca Nation is exempt from taxes. Others, though, say that the more development, the more tourists and investors the city will draw.
Other projects proposed by private companies and the USA Niagara Development Corporation, a state economic development agency, remain either in planning or stalled by jurisdictional disputes.
It may be too soon to expect the kind of boom that remade the Canadian city, many officials say.
"The major development there didn't happen for two years after the casino opened," said State Senator George D. Maziarz, a vocal proponent of Albany's casino compact with the Seneca Nation. "There hasn't been as much spinoff as we'd like to see, but that's going to take time."
 Niagara Falls Redevelopment, supported by the New York City financier Howard Milstein, owns or holds options on 142 acres near the casino. The company announced plans in August to spend $110 million in five years to develop hotels, restaurants and other attractions.
But Roger Trevino, a vice president of the company, said tourism-industry investors were waiting to see if the steady flow of casino patrons continues.
"There's a consistent stream of traffic, which is what developers, retailers and the hospitality industry would like to see," Mr. Trevino said. "Most people we've talked to would like to see a fuller track record, to make sure it's not a curiosity."
 Both state and city officials hope to parlay their portions of casino revenues into making the city more attractive to outside investors. Under terms of the casino compact, the state is scheduled to receive $38 million in the next few weeks as its share from Seneca Niagara's first year, with about $9.5 million of that going to the city.
Mr. Anello, a Democrat, and Mr. Maziarz, a Republican, hold two of the five seats on a commission overseeing the distribution of the city's casino money. While they have differed on how the revenue should be spent, both said the bulk should go toward infrastructure and housing projects. Those needs are glaring within a few blocks of the casino, where vacant buildings, crumbling curbs and cracked sidewalks line potholed streets.
 "Hopefully, they'll use the money to clean things up a little bit," said Chance Gabrus, 31, a printer who lives here. "It seems like things are changing here, and the casino is putting some fresh air back into the area."
 Other businesses near the casino, like Surjit Bajwa's service station, have gotten a lift from casino patrons and employees, as well as construction workers who renovated the former convention center and are building a 2,400-car parking garage, part of which opened this week.
 Mr. Bajwa, a New York City native who moved here almost three years ago, said he planned to expand his business to include a fast-food franchise.
 "It's been a good boost for business," he said of the casino. "So far, there's been no downside."
 USA Niagara announced plans last fall to help smaller entrepreneurs refurbish the Third Street commercial district, where the Fourniers do business. Some private investors are not waiting for government assistance to spruce things up, though.
 Daniel W. Vecchies and his family have spent more than $500,000 buying and renovating properties on the same block as Mr. Fournier's bar. Mr. Vecchies's Shadow Martini Bar and Restaurant opened in October, and he plans to have a steakhouse operating across the street by next tourist season.
 "Forty years of decline isn't going to turn around overnight," Mr. Vecchies said. "The casino is like a gold mine for this city and people like me have to think, 'What's the best way to mine that gold?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Fournier Jr., left, preparing for a busy night at the Cafe Etc. bar in Niagara Falls, N.Y. His father, Steve Fournier Sr., went next door to his pizzeria, which closed Monday after nearly a quarter-century in business. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B5); Steve Fournier Jr., right, whose business at the Cafe Etc. bar is booming, and his father, Steve Fournier Sr., who closed his pizzeria next door in Niagara Falls, N.Y. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CARD GAMES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



47 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Questions Shadow New Jackson Adviser 

BYLINE:  By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Leonard Muhammad, a man whom friends, employees and business associates of Michael Jackson say is running many of the pop star's affairs, has a history of failed businesses, fraud allegations and unpaid tax bills behind him.
 According to State of Illinois public records, Mr. Muhammad, chief of staff and son-in-law of the Nation of Islam's leader, Louis Farrakhan, ran a series of companies in the 1990's that were dissolved by the state in recent years for failure to file proper documents or to pay back taxes, among them Nationway Ventures International Ltd., DiNar Products and Economic Solutions Inc. 
 Earlier investigations, by The Chicago Tribune in 1995 and The Washington Post in 1996, found that Mr. Muhammad helped run a company that sold an unproven treatment for AIDS in poor Chicago neighborhoods and ran companies producing and selling soaps, shampoos and other toiletries -- including one called POWER Inc. -- that were chased by tax authorities and creditors for hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
Since then Mr. Muhammad, 58, has been principally responsible for the Nation of Islam's economic development programs. In the last six weeks he has become a close adviser to Mr. Jackson, who faces charges of child molestation. 
Numerous friends, advisers and business associates of Mr. Jackson said Mr. Muhammad was guiding media, business and legal strategy for the singer and controlled access to him. Mark Geragos, Mr. Jackson's lawyer, has denied the assertion, saying that Mr. Muhammad was one of many advisers in Mr. Jackson's camp. Mr. Muhammad declined to respond to repeated requests for comment on Friday.
Mr. Muhammad hung up on a reporter who called on Friday to verify his business history and request comment. An associate later called back to say that Mr. Muhammad would be in touch. As of Friday evening he had not returned further calls.
Born Leonard Searcy in 1945, Mr. Muhammad married Donna Farrakhan, Mr. Farrakhan's daughter, in 1983, and changed his name to Leonard Farrakhan Muhammad.
In 1996 The Washington Post reported that Mr. Muhammad ran a series of toiletry companies that records indicated owed a total of $226,949 to creditors and tax authorities. 
The Tribune reported that Mr. Muhammad was listed as an officer of a company that sold interferon as an anti-AIDS drug in African-American neighborhoods in Chicago in the early- to mid-1990's. The company, Per Ankh Inc., advertised in The Final Call, the Nation of Islam's newspaper, and was promoted vigorously by group leaders from the mosque podium. Doctors at the time called the treatment ineffectual and criticized the company for giving false hope to those dying of the disease.
According to public records Mr. Muhammad and his wife were sued in 1999 by South Shore Bank in a foreclosure action on a Chicago property for an unpaid mortgage balance of $34,699.52.
Born in Arkansas, Mr. Muhammad ran a Chicago tavern in the 1970's. In 1979 he started a health clinic in Chicago with a city contract to give checkups to children in the Head Start program.
The Tribune reported in 1995 that records showed the city chose not to renew the contract because of complaints from parents and Head Start directors who said that doctors gave cursory examinations that missed obvious ailments, or sometimes did not show up to examine children at all.
Mr. Muhammad then opened two Popeyes fried chicken restaurants in 1981 by taking $43,000 from the clinic's accounts, The Tribune reported. The restaurants went bankrupt within a few years, with Mr. Muhammad owing hundreds of thousands of dollars to banks and tax authorities.
South Shore Bank filed court papers accusing Mr. Muhammad of "fraud, dishonesty, incompetence and gross mismanagement" in running his chicken business, and a judge then ordered Mr. Muhammad to stop paying himself and his relatives out of the business.
Illinois state records show that Mr. Muhammad has frequently changed the name of his companies after tax liens or notices of delinquency were served by the state, and continued operating under other names.
Thus the real estate management firm Nationway Ventures International Ltd., dissolved by the state in 1994, continued to operate at the same address under the name Nationway Ventures International Group Inc. Similarly, New Life Self-Development Company, registered in 1993, was reconstituted in 1995 under the name New Life Self-Development Group Ltd.
DiNar Products was dissolved by the state in April 2001 for failure to file proper business documents, state records show.
Mr. Jackson is believed to have severe financial difficulties because of an expensive lifestyle that burns through $2 million to $3 million a month, current and former advisers say. His principal source of income is believed to be the Jackson and Beatles music catalog, to which he owns the rights.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture by The Associated Press in Arts & Ideas on Saturday with an article about the involvement of Leonard Farrakhan Muhammad, the chief of staff to the Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, in the business affairs of the pop star Michael Jackson was mislabeled by the news agency and published in error. (It also appeared in the News Summary.) It showed Ishmael Muhammad, a minister of the Nation of Islam and son of its former leader, Elijah Muhammad.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard Muhammad, chief of staff to Louis Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader, is said to be an adviser to Michael Jackson. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); AIDS & HIV (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); ANTIVIRALS (68%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (67%); CHILDREN (66%); CHILD ABUSE (51%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (91%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



48 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Private Group Prepares Visit To North Korea 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
A private delegation of American experts on North Korea, including a former White House official and a former director of Los Alamos National Laboratory, will travel to North Korea and possibly visit a nuclear weapons plant, people close to the delegation said Friday. 
 Bush administration officials said the delegation did not have any official government blessing and would not carry any message to North Korea. Indeed, the White House officials expressed concern that the trip might complicate the administration's own delicate diplomacy with North Korea. 
 Since last summer, the United States has held two separate multiparty negotiations involving North Korea and concerning its nuclear weapons program. Those talks, sponsored by China, are expected to resume early this year. 
The delegation of Americans going to North Korea, first reported in USA Today on Friday, will be led by John W. Lewis, a professor emeritus of international relations at Stanford University and a former director of the university's Center for International Security and Cooperation, a group that encourages dialogue on security matters.
Accompanying Professor Lewis will be Dr. Sigfried Hecker, a former director of the Los Alamos laboratory and an expert on nuclear weapons. Also traveling with the group will be Jack Pritchard, a former staff member of President Bush's National Security Council who has favored a more flexible approach to North Korea than the one adopted by the administration.
The trip grew out of discussions Professor Lewis held over the last year in visits to North Korea. Members of the group are leaving as early as this weekend for Beijing and will travel from China to North Korea.
"This is not a U.S. government-sponsored trip," someone involved in the planning said. "The U.S. government has no say. Nor were they asked to say yes or no to the trip itself."
Bush administration officials and people involved in the trip said that because Dr. Hecker is on a consulting contract with the Department of Energy and has a high security clearance, the administration was asked if it objected to his traveling to North Korea and the administration said it did not.
Some officials said that North Korea might seek to use the visit to emphasize the progress it had made on developing nuclear weapons and challenge the United States to do something about that.
"There's a limit to what I can say, simply because it's not our deal," said J. Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman. "Any efforts that complicate prospects or undertakings to reconvene the six-party talks and to achieve forward movement in dismantling North Korea's nuclear program aren't helpful."
A person knowledgeable about the trip who spoke on condition of anonymity said that the expectation was that the group would visit a nuclear weapons plant, possibly at Yongbyon, but that their schedule in North Korea would not be known until the group arrived.
If Dr. Hecker is allowed to see Yongbyon, that visit could presumably shed light on the progress North Korea has made in developing nuclear weapons since international inspectors previously stationed there were ejected a year ago.
The main question that American intelligence experts have is how much of the spent nuclear fuel at Yongbyon may have been reprocessed into weapons-grade plutonium. Intelligence satellites have detected activity at the site suggesting the possibility that reprocessing of nuclear rods was taking place there.
Even if the experts are allowed to visit Yongbyon, and could tell how much fuel had been produced, they would need to visit other facilities to answer questions about the full range of North Korea's nuclear activities.
Professor Lewis's group does not have a political agenda, but its members are all known to favor talks with North Korea on its nuclear program as a general principle.
Separately, two senior staff aides of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, both of whom have traveled to North Korea in the past, are to be there at the same time as the private group. Officials for the committee said the two aides might join the group led by Professor Lewis, but that their itinerary was also unclear.
The two Senate committee staff members are Keith Luse, an aide to Senator Richard G. Lugar, chairman of the foreign relations panel, and Frank Jannuzi, an aide to Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the committee's ranking Democrat.
The committee officials said Mr. Luse and Mr. Jannuzi had planned their trip separately to study issues like food distribution and the political situation in North Korea.
"The North Koreans may include them if there is a visit to a nuclear site," one Senate official said.
The visit by private Americans comes at a pivotal moment in the discussions over how to proceed in talks with North Korea. Not only are there hard-liners and more conciliatory people in the Bush administration, but the White House is also having trouble forging a consensus with its other partners in the talks.
China has taken the lead in trying to organize negotiations with North Korea. The other participants in the multilateral talks are South Korea, Japan and Russia.
The main difficulty has been over the Bush administration's opposition to any economic concessions or security pledges before North Korea commits to dismantling its nuclear weapons program in a complete, irreversible and verifiable way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



49 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Running On Reform 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Republican Party has a problem this election year. It's the governing party, but it lacks a governing philosophy.
 The G.O.P. used to have a governing philosophy: reducing the size of the state. This was a useful goal because it was the one thing all Republican factions could agree upon. The business community wanted to reduce the public sector because it stifled growth. Social conservatives wanted to shrink the nanny state because it produced dependency. Libertarians and populists wanted to reduce government because it gave too much power to bureaucratic elites. 
 But reducing the size of government can no longer be Republicans' animating principle. In the first place, many of the worst excesses of government have been addressed. It's harder to argue that government programs reward bad behavior after welfare reform. It's harder to argue that government stifles economic growth after a generation of tax-rate reduction and the awesome boom of the 1990's.
But the main reason reducing the size of government can't be the party's animating principle is that Republicans have no credibility on this subject. During the Reagan years, Republicans tried to cut the size of government and failed, then blamed the Democrats controlling Congress. In 1995, Republicans tried to reduce the size of government and failed, then blamed the Democrats controlling the White House. Now Republicans control everything, and over the past three years the size of government has still increased, not even counting the war on terror.
Republicans have learned through hard experiences that most Americans do not actually want their government sharply cut. Voters are skeptical of government, but they elect candidates who promise solutions for their problems, not ones who tear down departments. They do not respond to politicians whose primary message is "No, no, no."
With its old governing philosophy obsolete, the Republican Party is adrift domestically. On Capitol Hill, Republicans lack a set of goals to steer by. At the White House, the president speaks idealistically on foreign policy, but prosaically on domestic affairs. The foreign policy members of his cabinet look big; the domestic policy members look small. That's not only because the personalities are different, it's because the domestic cabinet members have been given less ambitious jobs to do.
Meanwhile, corporate lobbyists have jumped into the vacuum. If principles aren't going to guide the Republican Party, the opportunists are happy to take control.
Fortunately, there is one Republican leader who, at least at one point, recognized that the 21st-century G.O.P. could no longer be the party of Barry Goldwater. That's George W. Bush. When he ran for president in 2000, he made it quite clear that trimming government was not his main goal. "The American government is not the enemy of the people," he declared. "At times it is wasteful and grasping. But we must correct it, not disdain it. Government must be carefully limited -- but strong and active and respected within those bounds. It must act for the common good."
Bush promoted a new domestic governing philosophy: compassionate conservatism. Tobe honest, that hasn't panned out. So the task this year, starting with the State of the Union speech, is to come up with a new governing philosophy that will give domestic policy a sense of idealism, ambition and shape. 
For my money, the best organizing principle for Republicans centers on the word "reform." Republicans can modernize the (mostly Democratic) accomplishments of the 20th century. That would mean entitlement reform, tax reform, more welfare reform, education reform, immigration reform, tort reform and on and on. In all these areas, Republicans can progressively promote change, while Democrats remain the churlish defenders of the status quo. 
Republicans could remind voters, as Rudy Giuliani reminded New Yorkers, that we don't have to live with so-called intractable problems. If crime and child poverty can be reduced, then so can the education gap between whites and minorities. The tax code can be simplified, and entitlements made sustainable. 
It's looking increasingly as if Democrats will be the party of anger in 2004. Republicans may as well be the party of reform and hope.

Nicholas D. Kristof is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



50 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Offshore Services Grow in Lean Times 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
When Procter & Gamble employees forget a computer password or need to change the number of dependents they claim for tax purposes, they call one of three places: Manila; San Jose, Costa Rica; or Newcastle, England.
 Procter & Gamble, with about 98,000 employees in more than 80 countries, needed two years to consolidate its back office and personnel operations -- and help from a slew of consultants. Various firms first helped the big consumer products company join those that have become flexible in how and where they operate the business. Now they are helping Procter & Gamble hire outside contractors to help run the three "shared service centers" that it set up. 
 "P.&G.'s the leader," said Dennis A. McGwire, president and chief executive of TPI, a consulting firm that helps companies decide whether to move operations offshore and if so, how and where. "They're just one of the smartest companies that I have run into." 
What Mr. McGwire calls smart, others call the makings of an economic nightmare. The business of his privately held company, one of Procter & Gamble's consultants, is to advise companies about moving white-collar jobs overseas. 
That process is a hot-button issue in American business and politics, both awash in worries that the job losses in American manufacturing over the last three decades are beginning to corrode the service and technology sectors, as well. 
But such advisory work is proving to be a boon for many consulting firms, which have been hit hard by the slack economy and the reluctance of corporate executives to spend on big information technology projects. Advising on whether and how to move operations offshore and if so, whether to pay someone else to run them, is too small a market to offset broader revenue declines for the consulting industry, said Rebecca S. Scholl, a principal analyst in the Paris office of Gartner Inc., a research and consulting firm that has studied the phenomenon. But such advisory work is growing quickly and, in any event, may also be one of the only new games in town, said Tom Rodenhauser, president of Consulting Information Services in Keene, N.H. "Strategy firms are really focusing on sourcing as a big business for them, because the traditional cost-cutting work is drying up. Clients are doing that themselves," Mr. Rodenhauser said. "This is the only new phenomenon on the horizon that the strategy consultants can advise on."
Moving operations to cheaper locations has always been a response to economic weakness; in this case, though, consultants say the shift is unlikely to slow or reverse as the economy improves. With excess capacity for almost every kind of service function making competition intense, companies have every reason to take advantage of the lower wage scales in other countries, where the workers may be better educated than their counterparts in the United States. Client companies often do not want employees to know that the consultants are investigating whether their jobs can be shipped elsewhere, said Vas Kodali, a principal at the A.T. Kearney consulting firm, a subsidiary of EDS. One of the most important parts of the process -- and a step that may often fall victim to the bottom line -- is attending to employees whose functions are moved, he said.
"How do we make sure that the jobs that are offshored," Mr. Kodali explained, "that the people who were in those jobs, have opportunities?,"
That task may become more difficult as the kinds of jobs that companies want their overseas employees to perform continue to change. No longer are they just operating call centers, which call for relatively little exercise of judgment or authority. Overseas facilities are now handling all aspects of employee compensation, benefits, finance and even accounting -- in short, any functions that are not unique to the company and are not part of its essential business, said Rudy Puryear, director and head of the information technology practice for Bain & Company in Chicago. "Activities that are highly proprietary and that are unique to the company, it's particularly difficult" to move, he said. And companies are reluctant to relocate those operations whose secrets they need to protect -- the development of corporate strategies, for example.
Todd Furniss, the chief operating officer of Everest Group, another firm specializing in helping companies move operations offshore, distinguished between rules-based and judgment-based operations. "Rather than the entire mortgage application process, we might say we can outsource the underwriting process offshore," Mr. Furniss said. "Or instead of saying all of H.R., we might say just the payroll component."
The consultants study exactly what a company does and then identify which services, like payroll, can safely be delegated to overseas staff or purchased from a third-party supplier. The number of such advisory projects that A.T. Kearney is working on has more than tripled over the past three years, Mr. Kodali said. 
The next step is figuring out possible host countries, he explained, and deciding whether to hire another company to provide a service there or to build a center that will provide the client with exclusive service.
The experience of Procter & Gamble illustrates both what more and more companies are trying to do and what roles consultants play. 
Intent on cutting costs, the company began in 1998 to evaluate ways to consolidate back office operations worldwide into shared service centers, as they are known, said Alfonso Cos, a vice president for client services at Procter & Gamble who was picked to join a team of about 10 executives to lead the consolidation effort. "We were latecomers to the shared services space," said Mr. Cos, behind companies like Boeing and Allied Signal.
Procter & Gamble figured it could eliminate duplication -- there would not be separate payroll functions in 70 different countries -- and cut staff. By setting up the shared service centers overseas, Procter & Gamble also calculated that it could benefit from salary arbitrage: wages would be lower in the selected host countries.
Andersen Consulting, the company now known as Accenture, played a critical role at this juncture, helping Procter & Gamble identify countries that would be hospitable. The company and its consultants narrowed the list of cities to 12 from 104 and eventually picked San Jose, Manila and Newcastle. 
"It was very controversial," Mr. Cos said, because the consolidation would take business processes away from well-established units of the company in cities like Cincinnati, Mexico City and Caracas, where it had a highly visible presence. Now Procter & Gamble employs about 1,200 people in San Jose, 1,000 in Newcastle and 600 in Manila.
The centers began operating in 2000 and were so successful that Procter & Gamble considered offering to sell payroll and other human resources services to other companies, Mr. Cos said.
"If we are as good as we think we are or are becoming, what is the opportunity to compete for other business outside?" Mr. Cos recalled thinking. "We toyed with the idea for a while and realized it was totally out of our strategy."
Instead, the company has sold most of its employee services operations in each location to International Business Machines, which runs them for Procter & Gamble but can also offer the same services using the same facilities to other companies. So far, about 600 Procter & Gamble employees have become I.B.M. employees as a result, Mr. Cos said.
More and morecompanies are going to combine shifting operations offshore with outsourcing as Procter & Gamble ultimately has done, said Ms. Scholl, the Gartner analyst. Her firm predicts that such combination deals, which account for about 1 percent of the business process outsourcing market today, will account for about 14 percent of the market, or $24 billion, in 2007. The trend is not limited to American companies. Taca, an airline based in San Salvador, El Salvador, hired Bain to help it cut costs by identifying functions that could be purchased more cheaply from outside providers. Because of relatively low wages in El Salvador, it made no sense to outsource operation of its computer help desk, for example, said Jaime A. Pocasangre, vice president and corporate controller at Taca. But for computer hardware repairs, which require visits by technicians, the airline has hired Decision One, a company based in suburban Philadelphia. 
"Before, it was our staff," Mr. Pocasangre said. "We could give 24-hour response time," but only if flights from San Salvador to whatever office had the problem -- a broken printer or other piece of equipment -- were not full, he said. If the printer in the New York City ticket office broke and could not be fixed for a day or more, that could have serious revenue implications, he added. 
Pure consulting firms face tough competition from big companies that are both consultants and service providers, like I.B.M. and Accenture. The latter often offer to operate back offices for companies regardless of their location, said Brad Smith, vice president for research at Kennedy Information, a company in Peterborough, N.H., that tracks the consulting industry. "Companies like I.B.M. and Accenture are literally hiring thousands and thousands of people in places like Bangalore and Shanghai and wherever else they think a strategic location should and would be" for running such operations, Mr. Smith said. But keeping up with what the consultants and their clients are doing is difficult because many do not want to advertise their actions for fear of public or legislative backlash, said Mr. Kodali of A.T. Kearney. "They're very careful about confidentiality," he said. "But at the end of the day, they know they have to reduce their cost structure."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the role of consultants in advising companies on moving some operations overseas misspelled the surname of the chief executive of one such firm, TPI. He is Dennis A. McGuire, not McGwire.
The article also misidentified the firm that advised Procter & Gamble on its offshore operations. It was Arthur Andersen, not Andersen Consulting (now called Accenture).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers, top, at Procter & Gamble's global business service center on the outskirts of Newscastle, England. In San Jose, Costa Rica, Dixie Anderson, above, is in Procter & Gamble's accounting and financial services department, which receives invoices from throughout the Americas. (Photo by Andrew Testa for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (91%); GARTNER INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (PG) 

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (91%); PG (NYSE) (91%); IT (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%) SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (88%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) COSTA RICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004 



51 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Remedial Work 

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Hall; Stephen S. Hall is the author, most recently, of "Merchants of Immortality: Chasing the Dream of Human Life Extension."

 BODY:
 THE PURSUIT
OF PERFECTION
The Promise and Perils
of Medical Enhancement.
By Sheila M. Rothman
and David J. Rothman.
Illustrated. 292 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $25.
 IN 1923, a middling writer named Gertrude Atherton published a thinly veiled autobiographical best seller called "Black Oxen," whichmight be considered a kind of endocrinological morality tale. The novel tells the story of Mary Ogden Zattiany, a woman of a certain age (much like the 66-year-old Atherton) who travels to a Viennese clinic to receive hormone-stimulation treatment to reverse "premature senescence." The "therapy" -- repeated zapping of the ovaries with X-rays, a treatment Atherton herself underwent -- produces a dramatic rejuvenation of the protagonist's body and spirits but offends all her increasingly decrepit female friends, who view this as an unnatural and indecent form of medicine. "I am not the years I have passed in this world," Mary declares. "I am the age of the rejuvenated glands in my body."
Though the novel is about as subtle as the first gush of hormones during puberty, it turns out to be a remarkably prescient document about both the mindless medical euphoria that periodically swells up around some dubious new form of enhancement therapy, and the moral scolds who just as periodically pop up to denounce such treatments as another sign of civilization's decline. Indeed, so scandalous was Atherton's tale of glandular enhancement that there+was+a move (unsuccessful) to ban the book from public libraries.
The " 'Black Oxen' scandal," like the book, is long forgotten, but this delicious anecdote is resurrected to great effect by Sheila M. Rothman and David J. Rothman in "The Pursuit of Perfection," a retrospective history that could hardly be more topical. Perfection -- or, rather, perfectibility+- is much in the air these days, from the recent report of the President's Council on Bioethics on the pharmacological pursuit of happiness to the world of professional sports, rocked by the steroid scandal du jour. With each front-page account of new techniques that theoretically allow scientists to soup up embryos and stack the genetic deck we're all dealt in our favor, one senses a cultural foreboding rising in the collective gorge. 
Noting the "admittedly flimsy line between cure and enhancement," the authors shrewdly look backward at the history of medical innovation over the past century. The Rothmans (she is professor of public health, he is professor of social medicine and history at Columbia University) argue that many medicines begin as therapies for clearly recognized diseases but quickly assume second careers as medical enhancements -- a transition, they note, increasingly driven by the sophisticated marketing of powerful pharmaceutical companies (think Viagra). Their conclusion (though they never quite gather this sentiment in a satisfyingly declarative way) is that many future treatments will also turn out to be negligibly effective as enhancements while posing real risks to long-term health. There is no free lunch in biology.
Most of the book is a kind of glandular picaresque, as the Rothmans recount the history of hormone treatments like estrogen, testosterone and human growth hormone. It may seem a quaint conceit at first, but the Rothmans present persuasive evidence that endocrinology was as much the rage a century ago as genetics is today. In the 20's and 30's, they note, "we were our hormones; now we are our genes."
With academic precision (although with less narrative verve than general readers might hope), the Rothmans consider several notable examples of "treatments" that have crossed that vague line from therapy to enhancement. Perhaps the most clear-cut example -- enhancement at its most pure," they write -- is plastic surgery, which began as a reconstructive treatment for World War I injuries. In recounting the history of liposuction, the Rothmans describe how in the 70's the French surgeon Yves-Gerard Illouz adapted a suctioning tool used for abortions to vacuum away deposits of anatomical fat. In 2001, 400,000 procedures were done in the United States. This modest chapter in cosmetic enhancement concludes with the book's most important message: despite all the hype and hoopla surrounding a novel therapy, side effects will almost always perturb the picture. According to a survey of plastic surgeons in 2000, the mortality rate for liposuction was about 1 in 5,000, a high rate for an elective procedure.
The persistence of testosterone therapy provides a variation on the theme. As early as 1889, a prominent French scientist, Charles Edouard Brown-Sequard, then 72 years old, reported that he had recaptured his youthful vim and sexual vigor with extracts of dog and guinea-pig testicles. This triggered a half-century biochemical stampede to find the male hormone, which ultimately resulted in the isolation of testosterone in the 1930's. Drug companies rapidly moved in to market the hormone as rejuvenating medicines, essentially inventing a medical condition -- the "male climacteric," or male menopause -- to justify its use. There was (and is) no compelling evidence that testosterone relieves fatigue or nervousness, and later there was evidence that it might be harmful. Testosterone now qualifies as a postmodern exemplar of snake oil, regularly hawked in that new digital bazaar, the Internet.
Women, alas, have been forced to live the most hair-raising chapters in this history: estrogen treatment. Following the isolation of the "female principle" in the 20's, doctors began to recommend estrogen to treat the symptoms of infertility and, most notably, menopause. As "Black Oxen" attests, the treatment rapidly reinvented itself as an anti-aging tonic. Doctors urged women to undergo ovarian transplants, X-ray "stimulation" of the ovaries and, ultimately, hormone replacement therapy; by 1975, 27 million American women were taking hormone treatments. Only later did it become clear that the scientific data suggesting efficacy were far from definitive; by 2002, a large study of hormone replacement therapy sponsored by the National Institutes of Health had to be abruptly stopped because of serious side effects, and experts counseled against estrogen for chronic disease. 
The estrogen story, however, also illustrates how daunting it is for society to patrol the border between therapy and enhancement. Despite decades of wrongheaded enthusiasm, the initial motivation was undeniably medical -+it looked as if estrogen replacement could prevent osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and cognitive decline, all worthy goals of preventive medicine. If you accept this subtler version, then the estrogen saga -- and its implications for the future of enhancement -- really becomes a cautionary tale about immature science leading to premature medical applications, egged on by a credulous, grasping public. That's a little different from a broad cultural imperative for perfection. Moreover, there are inherent limitations to the power of these case histories to predict the shape of the future. The initial medical use of estrogen and testosterone, for example, gained momentum in the 20's and 30's, before the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 changed the landscape of prescription medicines by requiring drug companies to prove safety before receiving F.D.A. approval. 
Perhaps the most important challenge resides in the quandary posed by Gertrude Atherton in "Black Oxen": once a drugis approved, some patients are going to demand it as an enhancement, and some doctors are going to give it to them. This is an unsavory fact of medical life: Market demand is an essential component of this dynamic, as is cultural desire, and self-propelling economies build up around drugs that offer minimal efficacy and maximal fantasy fulfillment. But so long as safety is not an issue, you needn't be a libertarian to feel queasy about governments or moralists muscling into the private transactions between patients and doctors.
In the end, the Rothmans concede, it is "extraordinarily difficult, really impossible, to distinguish consistently between cure and enhancement." Their prescription for society is wise precisely because it does not fall into an absolutist trap. Rather, they demand a much higher standard for clinical research while invoking the oldest of consumer warnings+- caveat emptor -- for new medicines: "Healthy adults will have to calculate how much risk they are willing to accept in order to try to optimize a trait." With the boundary between cure and enhancement so historically muddy, one suspects we'll walk that fuzzy line with greater wisdom and enlightenment only if biology's power to enhance ultimately "improves" the most complicated trait of all: human nature. Despite much fevered speculation, that is not likely to end anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); SCANDALS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (76%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (75%); STEROIDS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); ETHICS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



52 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Science Fiction 

BYLINE:  By Gerald Jonas

 BODY:
Robert A. Heinlein died in 1988 at the age of 80. Along with a handful of his contemporaries -- including Arthur C. Clarke, Ray Bradbury and Isaac Asimov -- he is credited with propelling science fiction beyond its pulp-magazine roots to wide popularity and even a modicum of literary respectability. With books like "The Man Who Sold the Moon" and "Stranger in a Strange Land," he presented a vision of the future that gave equal weight to imagination and technology -- no small achievement and one that continues to inspire science fiction writers and readers. 
 FOR US, THE LIVING: A Comedy of Customs (Scribner, $25), based on a manuscript unearthed a few years ago, is being billed as Heinlein's first novel. Written in 1938 and 1939, before he published his first short story, it is less a novel than a political and economic tract in fictional disguise. Among its obvious forerunners is Edward Bellamy's "Looking Backward," published in 1888, which presented a socialist utopia seen through the eyes of a Boston gentleman who goes to sleep in 1887 and wakes up in the year 2000. 
 Heinlein's protagonist, Perry Nelson, dies in an automobile accident in 1939, only to find himself somehow transported to the year 2086. He is taken in by a young woman named Diana, who becomes his guide to the United States of the late 21st century, a country that has not only survived the Great Depression but has transformed itself into a mature utopia, where production and consumption are kept in equilibrium by a government dole, sexual freedom has done away with sexual jealousy, and one of the healthy pleasures available to all is a brand of cigarettes made with "honest Virginia tobacco."
Heinlein committed this utopian vision to paper in the wake of two personal disappointments. In 1934 a bout of tuberculosis led to his retirement from the Navy; four years later, running as a reform Democrat, he was narrowly defeated in a race for the California State Assembly. When "For Us, the Living" was rejected by several publishers, Heinlein turned to science fiction, with almost immediate success. 
While he was self-deprecating about that success, Heinlein was never shy about his conviction that most social problems could be solved by an application of scientifically informed reason -- if only the irrational fools in power could be forced to step aside. Embedded in the lectures on good governance that make up the bulk of "For Us, the Living" is a detailed "future history" of the years from 1939 through 2086. Although he set the manuscript aside and later destroyed all the copies in his possession, Heinlein went on to mine this material for his most distinctive short stories and novels. For this reason alone, the belated publication of this early work is a major contribution to the history of the genre.
Arthur C. Clarke was born in Minehead, England, in 1917. Perhaps best known as the co-creator, with the director Stanley Kubrick, of the film "2001: A Space Odyssey," Clarke is the author of dozens of books of fiction and nonfiction, including the novels "Childhood's End" and "Rendezvous With Rama." In 1945, he published a prescient article outlining the theory of communication satellites. For this, and for his longtime role as a science popularizer of the highest order, he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1998.
In recent years he has been involved in a number of collaborations with younger writers. TIME'S EYE: A Time Odyssey: 1 (Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95) is attributed to Clarke and Stephen Baxter, a prolific fellow Englishman whose novels include "Evolution," a fictional treatment of the development of life on earth from the days of the dinosaurs into the far future. 
"Time's Eye" takes its inspiration from the opening section of "2001," in which enigmatic slablike "monoliths" impel a band of anthropoid apes onto a new evolutionary path that will eventually give rise to the wonders and terrors of 20th-century civilization. In "Time's Eye," the equivalents of the alien monoliths are shiny spheres that come to be called "Eyes" because they hover in the air apparently observing the scattered human survivors of an almost unimaginable catastrophe. 
In a terrible moment called the Discontinuity, space-time has somehow been torn apart and reassembled, so that chunks of the earth's surface from many historical eras have been brought together to form a new patchwork planet. The survivors range from a group of 21st-century peacekeepers from the United Nations to a 13th-century Mongol horde led by Genghis Khan himself to the 4th-century B.C. army of Alexander the Great.
The first half of the book follows these oddly assorted scraps of humanity as they come to terms with the Discontinuity, and with the need to compete or cooperate for control of their destiny. The later chapters deal with the epic confrontation between Alexander and Genghis Khan, and its surprisingly peaceful aftermath.
Readers who expect the mystery of the Discontinuity to be cleared up by the end of the book will be disappointed. "Time's Eye" is the first volume of a series that clearly has a long way to go. But unlike "2001," which raised provocative questions about the nature of human evolution, "Time's Eye" appears to have little on its mind but a rousing adventure. The Discontinuity has more in common with the premise of a "Star Trek" episode than with the philosophical speculations of vintage Clarke or first-rate Baxter. Nevertheless, the adventure is rousing, and I can't imagine anyone finishing this book and not wondering what comes next. 
Ursula K. Le Guin, whose novel "The Left Hand of Darkness" (1969) is one of science fiction's finest achievements, has translated a work by the Argentine writer Angelica Gorodischer. KALPA IMPERIAL: The Greatest Empire That Never Was (Small Beer Press, paper, $16) recounts the history of an imaginary empire in a series of tales that adopt the voice of a marketplace storyteller. This storyteller does not so much court the listeners' attention as imperiously demand it: "You can shut your eyes and cross your hands on your belly if you like, but shut your mouth and open your ears to what I'm telling you."
While the point of each tale eludes paraphrase, the cumulative burden is the imperfectibility of human society. Emperors and empresses come and go; some triumph through cruelty, others through cunning. A few succeed in improving the lot of the people. The best rulers are those tempered by personal suffering, but even their legacies are inherently precarious. Le Guin's translation, which ranges from blunt to elegant to oracular, seems like the ideal medium for this grim if inescapable message. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); WRITERS (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); CONSUMPTION (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



53 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
A Master (and Mistress) of the Imperious

BYLINE:  By WOODY HOCHSWENDER; Woody Hochswender, a former reporter for The New York Times, sings with the Light Opera Company of Salisbury, Conn.

 BODY:
KEITH JUROSKO, as a heavyweight in light opera, is part of a vanishing world. Possessed of a rich, classically trained baritone voice, an imposing athletic frame and the most commanding, subtly ironic stage presence this side of Barrymore, Mr. Jurosko is one of the leading Savoy specialists in America, a roving star player in Gilbert and Sullivan operettas around the country.
 A master of the works' intricate solos, duets and trios, Mr. Jurosko, 58, is also an accomplished deadpan comedian. The demanding drama critic John Simon once called him "a leading man of greater charm, polish and originality than can be found on any of New York's musical stages." 
 But unless you are a G&S addict or a follower of the comedic Gran Scena Opera Company in New York, where Mr. Jurosko performs in uproarious parodies of grand opera, you may not have heard of him. For Mr. Jurosko toils in the world of light opera, a high-talent, low-glamour backwater of the performing arts, where pure singing, rapid-fire recitative skills and comic timing are taken for granted, and the words "percentage of the gross" are never heard. (Well, hardly ever.) 
Like some latter-day minstrel, he travels from city to city, from major stage to minor, by plane, bus and car, sleeping in dingy hotels, rehearsing with uncountable local amateurs, all for the joy of practicing this antique art form.
This month at the City Center, Mr. Jurosko will appear close to home with the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players as the grandiose Captain Corcoran in "H.M.S. Pinafore" (beginning on Jan. 16) and the fire-breathing emperor of Japan in "The Mikado" (Jan. 23). (The company's run begins on Friday, with "Iolanthe" but without Mr. Jurosko.) After that he will pack his bags again and hit the road.
"I am rather Gypsylike," Mr. Jurosko said recently in his apartment in mid-Manhattan. "It is an itinerant profession. I love working with regional opera companies. But after a quarter century of doing this, if I never see another airport or hotel, I'll be happy."
The hallmark of his signature roles, like Captain Corcoran, is imperiousness. In addition to his lyric baritone voice, Mr. Jurosko has a chiseled face that is nevertheless quite animated. It can go from granite indifference to outraged shock to sheer deviousness in an instant.
"He is a quintessential Captain," said Albert Bergeret, the founder and artistic director of the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players. "Stylistically, no one else can touch him. He is precise, military. He has the timing. He has the crispness you expect."
In "The Mikado," a satire set in feudal Japan, Mr. Jurosko doesn't appear until the final act, and he sings only two songs. So when he finally does appear, he needs to be an exercise in hyperbole. Mr. Jurosko does not disappoint. Swathed in a giant gilded kimono, with a traditional pillbox hat, fearsome makeup and an awesome array of bracelets, rings and whatnot, he somehow manages to render the complex song "A More Humane Mikado (Let the Punishment Fit the Crime)" with malevolent glee, hurling mouthfuls of lyrics all the way to the back row.
Up to 50 times a year Mr. Jurosko takes such roles, at the Boston Academy of Music, the Anchorage Opera and smaller companies like the Sorg Opera in Middletown, Ohio, and the Light Opera Company of Salisbury, Conn. Typically he spends a few weeks with a company, but sometimes he shows up cold, only a day or two before the performance. Without knowing any of the players or even the director, he attends a technical rehearsal and a dress rehearsal, then it's on with the show.
What happens if the director doesn't have a clue, the chorus is in chaos, and the supporting players can't help hitting you inthe face with a prop sword?
"It does happen, but, miraculously, very rarely," Mr. Jurosko said. "I've never actually gotten hit in the face with a sword, but I have had to teach people what make-believe is on the stage, so you don't get whacked so hard that it knocks the wind out of you, and you can't sing your next line."
Mr. Jurosko recalls a tour with the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players that ran into a snowstorm between Detroit and Brantford, Ontario. The cast bus made it through, but the truck carrying the sets and costumes did not.
"We went to that theater and did the thing in our street clothes, with borrowed umbrellas instead of parasols," he said. "And the audience loved it. They loved the fact that we didn't just turn tail and give up. They got the work without the feathers and the epaulettes. They still got a 'Pinafore.'
"What you do is make the best of it. My feeling about Gilbert and Sullivan is that they really are classic, and that you can wound them, but you can't kill them."
Offstage Mr. Jurosko is relaxed and easygoing, without a trace of the gimlet-eyed puissance of his stage persona. Raised in Schenectady, N.Y., he first wanted to be a surgeon, but a high-school guidance counselor, thinking that the boy was shy, encouraged him to try the stage. After one performance of "Arsenic and Old Lace," Mr. Jurosko was hooked.
"When I realized I could make people laugh, hold their attention," he said, "it gave me such joy." Out went the medical career, the idea of cutting people open replaced by cutting people up.
Around the same time he discovered his singing voice, which is deep and far-ranging (though he also sings falsetto with Gran Scena, an all-male company, sending up both male and female roles). He studied for many years in New York with Charles Reading -- old-fashioned bel canto singing -- and dreamed of singing grand opera.
"I wanted to be the next big thing at the Met," he said. "But in fact I really wanted to be a working performer, which is what I am. Any performer, I don't care who, will have to admit they always wanted to be a star."
He initially turned down the first Gilbert and Sullivan role he was offered, Strephon in "Iolanthe."
"I was an opera snob," he said. "But after much badgering, I agreed to do it."
He occasionally plays grand opera roles, having recently sung Haly in Rossini's "Italiana in Algeri" at the Boston Academy of Music. But that kind of big singing is generally confined to the privacy of his home. "I just let it rip, like an Italian opera singer," he said. "Every clown wants to be Hamlet."
Mr. Jurosko prefers operetta to mainstream musicals, because of its heightened sentimentality and more operatic-sounding music. Of course operettas also give him an opportunity to practice his highly developed sense of shtick.
"Keith can be funny any time he wants to," said Stephen Quint, another itinerant performer specializing in Gilbert and Sullivan, who will appear with Mr. Jurosko in the City Center productions. "He can lift an eyebrow or do a tiny little double take, and he's got you. There's an economy of gesture that is audience-riveting."
Mr. Jurosko gets a gleam in his eye when he talks about Gran Scena, the currently dormant comedic troupe, which has a cult following in New York and Europe. "I had a rather unique position in that company," he said, "in that I was their standard baritone doing all the great baritone villains in grand opera." But he has also sung high coloratura parts.
"I had a beautiful soprano voice when I was very young, and when my voice changed, the boy soprano never went away," he said. "It still terrifies me."
In an age when acting has gone minimal and the acme of dramatic art sometimes seems to consist of looking model-gorgeous and wet-eyed as the camera moves in for the close-up, Mr. Jurosko has abundant time-honored talent and individuality.
"There is a blandness and a homogeneity to a lot of performing, in opera and on Broadway," he said. "Today it might be difficult for Maria Callas or Ethel Merman to get a job."
Mr. Jurosko says he is fortunate to have learned from a master, the retired English comic baritone John Reed, whom he calls "the last of the really major G&S comedians from the original company." He played alongside Mr. Reed several times, in "The Pirates of Penzance" and "H.M.S. Pinafore."
Mr. Jurosko has been urged to direct an operetta himself, and he is interested in doing so. Last year, at a regional company, he worked with a director who was clearly at sea with Gilbert and Sullivan. When the director was finally removed, Mr. Jurosko helped direct the performances.
He would also like to take on other light-opera roles, especially in Viennese works by Strauss, Lehar and Kalman. He has never done Offenbach, and he would like to.
"There are some that I might want to do, but I'm happy to console myself with the Captain, the Mikado and the Pirate King," Mr. Jurosko said. "They still give me joy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Keith Jurosko performing with the comedic male troupe La Gran Scena in Montreal around 1994. (Photo by La Pressa)(pg. 29); Keith Jurosko in the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players' "Mikado" last year. (Photo by Lee Snyder/New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players)(pg. 33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); OPERA (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); THEATER REVIEWS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



54 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
For 2 Ships: Goodbye, New York. Hello, Bayonne.

BYLINE:  By BARRY ESTABROOK

 BODY:
Royal Caribbean Cruises announced just before the holidays that beginning in May two of its vessels, the 3,114-passenger Voyager of the Seas, one of the world's largest cruise ships, and the 2,020-passenger Nordic Empress, will dock in New Jersey rather than New York. The new port of call will be the former Bayonne Military Ocean Terminal. Nordic Empress had previously used the passenger ship terminal on Manhattan's West Side. 
 "This is all about the Voyager," said Jaye Hilton, a spokeswoman for Royal Caribbean. "We are going to be introducing one of our larger ships into the New York market. We needed to find a facility that could handle a ship of that size and the numbers of passengers." 
 The decision is a setback to New York's vigorous growth as a cruise port. In 2002, nearly 450,000 cruise passengers embarked from New York, up from 416,000 the year earlier, according to the Cruise Lines International Association. "It is one of our fastest-growing industries," said Michael Sherman, a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation. "The West Side facility is at near capacity. We realize it needs improvements. It hasn't been upgraded since the 1970's."
"It's an economic blow to the city, but for most cruise vacationers, the impact will be minimal," said Raymond Kane, president of Pisa Brothers Travel in Manhattan, an agency that specializes in cruising. "If you're talking about the top-end cruising where people come in and stay in luxury hotels in New York before and afterwards, the move would have a downside, but the Royal Caribbean ships are considered middle of the market." 
The Bayonne facility is off the New Jersey Turnpike, about 15 minutes from Newark Liberty International Airport. Royal Caribbean is considering initiating a ferry service from Manhattan to the new port, said Ms. Hilton. BARRY ESTABROOK

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nordic Empress steams out of New York Harbor. (Photo by Jonathan Atkin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); FERRIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); AIRPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (59%)

TICKER: RCL (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (59%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (59%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (59%) SIC4481 DEEP SEA PASSENGER; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



55 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-4-04: CONSUMED; 
The Right-Hand Diamond Ring

BYLINE:  By Rob Walker

 BODY:
If you see a diamond ring on the fourth finger of a woman's left hand, you probably know what it means: in America, this has long been the digit of choice for betrothal jewelry, and the lore of the trade traces the symbolism back to ancient times. But if you see a diamond ring on the fourth finger of a woman's right hand, you may or may not know that it signifies an independent spirit, or even economic empowerment and changing gender mores. "A lot of women have disposable income," Katie Couric said recently on the "Today" show after showing viewers her Chanel right-hander. "Why wait for a man to give her a diamond ring?" 
 This notion may be traced back, approximately, to September. That's when the Diamond Information Center began a huge marketing campaign aimed at articulating the meaning of right-hand rings -- and thus a rationale for buying them. "Your left hand says 'we,"' the campaign declares. "Your right hand says 'me."' The positioning is brilliant: the wearer may be married or unmarried and may buy the ring herself or request it as a gift. And while it can take years for a new jewelry concept to work itself thoroughly into the mainstream, the right-hand ring already has momentum. 
 At the higher end of the scale, the jewelry maker Kwiat, which supplies stores like Saks, offers a line of Kwiat Spirit Rings that can retail for as much as $5,000, and "we're selling it faster than we're manufacturing it," says Bill Gould, the company's chief of marketing. At the other end of the scale, mass-oriented retailers that often take a wait-and-see attitude have already jumped on the bandwagon. Wal-Mart's half-dozen or so right-hand offerings include the Keepsake Independence ("a shining symbol of your feminine spirit") for $389. Costco, the discounter, doesn't advertise or even give names to its jewelry offerings, but it has experienced an increase of more than 15 percent in nonbridal diamond sales in the last few months that the chain attributes to the Diamond Information Center campaign.
The Diamond Information Center is the division of the ad agency J. Walter Thompson that serves the Diamond Trading Company, which in turn is the sales and marketing arm of the diamond giant De Beers. The center's Sally Morrison explains that the campaign came about partly because celebrities like Halle Berry and fashion-forward sorts were sporting the rings. This sort of thing is hard to gauge. Morrison says fashion runways were another early site of the trend, and one example she offers is the use of right-hand rings this spring by the designer Carmen Marc Valvo -- but that decision was actually made "in conjunction" with the Diamond Information Center, a spokesman for the designer says. 
In any case, the other inspiration is easier to quantify: rings' share of diamond jewelry sales had slipped. Plus, only 14 percent of diamonds are self-purchased; there are more career women with money to spend, says Kenneth Gassman, a diamond-jewelry analyst, but "they just haven't been spending it on diamonds." Focus groups, Morrison says, revealed "a sort of superstition" that a diamond ring should only be a romantic gift from a man. Thus the positioning of the right-hand ring as a "signature style piece" that "liberated" women from a taboo. (And if the woman's disposable income is high enough, maybe this is the birth of the bling finger.) Firms like Kwiat were given what Gould calls "direction" from the Diamond Information Center about the new ring's attributes -- multiple diamonds in a north-south orientation that distinguishes it from the look of an engagement ring, and so on. But all this is secondary to the newly minted meaning. "The idea," Morrison says, "is that beyond a trend, this could become a sort of cultural imperative." 
A tall order? Well, bear in mind that "a diamond is forever" is not a saying handed down from imperial Rome. It was handed down from an earlier generation of De Beers marketers. Joyce Jonas, a jewelry appraiser and historian, notes that De Beers, in the 40's and 50's, took advantage of a changing American class structure to turn diamond rings into an (attainable) symbol for the masses. By now, Jonas observes, the stone alone "is just a commodity." And this, of course, is what makes its invented significance more crucial than ever. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philippe Lardy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE JEWELRY (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (78%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (78%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); RETAILERS (69%); FASHION SHOWS (62%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DIAMOND TRADING CO (62%); JWT (62%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (54%); HALLE BERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



56 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2883 words

HEADLINE: Land Of the Rising Cliche 

BYLINE:  By MOTOKO RICH; Lukas Schwarzacher and Fumie Tomita, in Tokyo, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
IN the climactic battle of "Kill Bill Vol. 1," Quentin Tarantino's bloody revenge flick, O-Ren Ishii, the kimono-clad yakuza chieftess played by Lucy Liu, turns to Uma Thurman's blonde, blue-eyed Bride, and caustically remarks: "Silly Caucasian girl likes to play with samurai swords."
 The Bride turns out to be pretty good with her blade, but the sentiment might well be an epigraph for this season of subtitles and samurai. 
 Through the same sort of Hollywood kismet that produces concurrent movies about deadly asteroids and exploding volcanoes, the theaters are suddenly overrun with images of Japan. Tom Cruise is thundering across the battlefields of Meiji Restoration Japan in "The Last Samurai," in pursuit of the doomed Bushido honor code and the enlightened spirituality of Zen Buddhism. "Lost in Translation," Sofia Coppola's portrait of alienated Americans in Tokyo, is one of the indie hits of the year. Nearly half the action in the first volume of "Kill Bill" (the second appears next month), with its rapturous, over-the-top homage to yakuza, manga and other Japanese genre films, takes place in a surreal movie-land Japan, subtitles and addled accents flying. 
It's not just the setting that unites these movies. They are the objects of heated debate, particularly among Asian-Americans and Japanese, about whether Hollywood's current depictions of Japan are racist, naive, well-intentioned, accurate -- or all of the above.
Reservations about "The Last Samurai" started with reviews that castigated the movie for its stale portrayals of Japanese culture, as well as the patronizing narrative of a white man teaching the rapidly modernizing Japanese how to honor their past. Tom Long, of The Detroit News, wrote that " 'The Last Samurai' pretends to honor a culture, but all it's really interested in is cheap sentiment, big fights and, above all, star worship. It is a sham, and further, a shame."
Meanwhile, in an unfortunate incident: a consultant retained by a party planner for the Los Angeles premiere of "The Last Samurai" put out a public call requesting "beautiful Asian women" willing to dress up and "mingle in character . . . to create the ambience of ancient Japan, circa 1870's." The ad was pulled after the consultant received numerous complaints about the treatment of Asian women as attractive set-pieces -- as well as the notion that all Asian women are equivalent. "Hollywood clumps us all together and it does not matter whether we are wearing kimonos or hanboks or saris," Sarah Park wrote in a letter reprinted on www.aamovement.net.
In Japan, the movie opened on Dec. 6, and has since been met with box office enthusiasm and generally favorable reviews. "With his pursuit of realism director Edward Zwick seeks to surmount the misunderstandings and biases made by Westerners in the past," wrote Noriki Ishitobi in the Asahi Shimbun, one of three major daily newspapers in Tokyo, in a translation supplied by Warner Brothers. Tomomi Katsuta, who writes about films for Mainichi Shimbun, another of the newspapers, said in a telephone interview that the movie was a vast improvement over previous American attempts to portray Japanin movies like "Shogun" and "Rising Sun." Those films were humiliating for Japanese audiences, he said: "They didn't understand Japanese culture or the customs of the Japanese." Mr. Zwick, he said, had researched Japanese history, cast well-known Japanese actors and consulted dialogue coaches to make sure he didn't confuse the casual and formal categories of Japanese speech. 
Of course, Japanese audiences are relishing the opportunity to re-engage in the time-honored moviegoing tradition of picking out a period drama's false touches: in this case, viewers have complained about anachronistic samurai battle gear, overly talkative warriors and the unlikely scenario of the emperor appearing before a foreigner. "Even with serious pictures like 'Hiroshima Mon Amour,' the reviewers mainly picked out mistakes," said Donald Richie, an American film historian based in Tokyo.
But what seems to grate at Japanese viewers a bit more is the movie's storybook approach to the samurai, who are depicted as unfailingly noble, and as pure as warriors can possibly be. In fact, the samurai myth is now a fairly tarnished one in Japan, in a way that the movie's glory-filled depiction doesn't reflect. And since that myth was originally created by Japanese literature and film, it's odd to see those outdated images return in new American packaging. "Our image of samurai are that they were more corrupt," said Mr. Katsuta. As for the character of Katsumoto, the philosophical samurai leader played by Ken Watanabe, Mr. Katsuta said, in a phone interview, "It set my teeth on edge."
Mr. Zwick acknowledged that the movie inevitably simplified Japanese history, in order to make it accessible to a current -- and Western -- audience. "The only thing one can do is hope that with a kind of immersion and some respectful understanding, that what you come up with is a distillation, rather than a cliche," he said. However, he also admitted that the movie is heavily driven by myth and nostalgia. "Movies, finally, can't help but dwell in a kind of iconography," Mr. Zwick said. "The samurai myth is partly a myth. It is central in the way that our own lone frontiersman is a myth and I think they find their expression in all sorts of different ways. In this country, we sell cigarettes with the myth and elect presidents with it. In that country it finds its applications in all kinds of different ways and I'm finding my own use for it in this story as well."
Counterintuitively, Mr. Zwick's lack of native familiarity with Japanese culture might have helped the film's reception in that country. "What if a Japanese contemporary director had made it?" wrote Midori Nakano in The Sunday Mainichi, a weekly magazine. "Right away, people would start to question the director's political intention and ideological stance."
In any case, star-studded Hollywood epics tend to play well in Japan. (Even "Pearl Harbor," which was hardly a feel-good account of Japanese-American relations, was the second-highest-grossing foreign film of its year.) According to Variety, "The Last Samurai" opened on 536 screens (out of 2,700), taking in $8.36 million its first weekend, which puts it in the top 10 openings of a foreign film for the year.
"Lost in Translation" will not open in Japan until May -- but already, the debate about the movie's stereotypes and how they will play with Japanese audiences has begun. In off-the record comments, some executives at film distributors in Japan have wondered how it is likely to be received. "The Last Samurai" with its grand scale, heroic Japanese characters and well-known local actors, is an easier sell, after all, than "Lost in Translation," with its more intimate scale, traveler's-eye perspective, and absence of convincing native characters.
In "The Last Samurai," for example, Tom Cruise's character eventually submits wholeheartedly to his adopted culture. In "Lost in Translation," by contrast, the two main characters bond in part over their befuddlement with Japanese behavior.
In one scene, an aggressive prostitute tumbles into the hotel room of Bob, the washed-up movie actor played by Bill Murray. Hysterically exhorting him to rip her stockings, she manages only to instruct him to "lip them," and hilarity ensues. In another scene, Bob looks completely lost in an appearance on a talk show, as its zany host -- played by Matthew Minami, who really is host of such a show -- cavorts in a Technicolor suit and dyed blond hair.
The film has won Golden Globe nominations and accolades from the New York Film Critics Circle and is widely regarded as an Oscar contender. At the same time, filmgoers are debating whether the story uses -- even depends on -- cultural mockery. "I must say that I was disappointed and very offended after viewing Sofia Coppola's 'Lost in Translation' because it's a racist film that's not only insensitive, a caricature (of) the Japanese culture, but of Asian cultures as a whole," wrote one poster on Indiewire.com. 
In a discussion on Gothamist.com, a New York-based Web log, another poster wrote: "A better screenwriter . . . could have come up with jokes that didn't rely purely on sight gags having to do with bad Engrish jokes and 'I don't get this wacky japanese culture' bits."
Kazuho Tsuchiya, a 33-year-old Japanese graduate student who has lived in the United States since 1997, said he liked the movie, but was disappointed by some of the film's "diehard stereotypical images." He pointed to the scene in which Bill Murray's character, Bob, enters a full elevator and towers over all the Japanese occupants. Jokes about short Japanese men, he said, are a cheap laugh. Another poster on Gothamist.com, who said he had lived in Japan for many years, said he found the scene between Bob and the prostitute gratuitous. "A real call girl in Tokyo at a hotel like that for a star like him would have been top shelf and probably spoken passable English," he wrote. "It wasn't realistic, which wouldn't bug me if it served some purpose in the flick but all it really did was play into some stereotypes."
Some American viewers have simply criticized the movie for failing to develop its Japanese characters. "It is not the negative representation of the Japanese, but rather, the shirking of responsibility to depict them as full human beings, either negative or positive, which constitutes discrimination, or racism," wrote E. Koohan Paik on modelminority.com, a Web site that bills itself as "A Guide to Asian-American Empowerment."
Ross Katz, a producer with Ms. Coppola of "Lost in Translation," said in an interview that he believed "Sofia's love of Japan and love of the people that she's met there is incredibly evident in the film." He added that the first major financier of the movie was a Japanese company, Tohokushinsha Film Corp., which is distributing the movie there. "Literally, we recounted experiences that I think all of us had gone through in making the film," said Mr. Katz. "When you land in a place in which you don't speak the language and in which your body is off and jet-lagged and in which you don't know how to get places, there are funny, frustrating, difficult things that happen." None of the scenes, he said, were "any slight to Japanese people."
A poster on Gothamist.com agreed: "The film really nails what living in Japan is like for non-Japanese speakers. It's really like that, and I think that charges the film might be racist are very sadly mistaken."
If so, it fits into a long-standing tradition in Hollywood filmmaking -- one that exceeds the particularities of America's view of Japan -- of movies about Americans finding their way in an unfamiliar land. "These are cultural encounter films that could take place in Italy or France, and they have done in other years," says Carol Gluck, professor of Japanese history at Columbia University. 
"Is it stereotyped?" she continued. "Sure, but so are all these cultural encounters. France and Italy or Britain are just as stereotyped."
Unlike its contemporaries, "Kill Bill Vol. 1" makes no attempt to convey a "real" Japan. It is a pastiche, a dense layering of hip Japan-inflected references, not an attempt at verisimilitude. As a result, it has largely escaped the debate about whether its Japanese characters are faithful portrayals or cartoon characters. (All the film's characters are cartoon characters, and deliberately so.) But despite its obvious and extreme exaggerations, a few viewers have been troubled by its take on Asian movie conventions. "Liu's 'O-Ren Ishii' also strays into the realm of the stereotyped 'Dragon Lady' of Orientalist myth," wrote one Hong Kong-based blogger.
In Japan, many critics praised "Kill Bill" for its knowing tribute to that country's B-movies. It hasn't achieved the popularity of "The Last Samurai," though, taking in just over $21 million in 10 weeks. Those who share Mr. Tarantino's enthusiasm for genres like gangster movies or manga seem to love it, while others tend to find it more of a perplexing facsimile. "I think that many Japanese people understand Quentin Tarantino's aims," said Ken Sugawa, who makes promotional trailers for Wowow, a television and film production company in Tokyo. "He wants to describe not real Japan and its culture, but the people and culture in films such as yakuza and B-action movies. However, general Japanese audiences are not interested in what Mr. Tarantino finds interesting." 
Perhaps the most sensitive and well-rounded Japanese character can be found in a film far smaller than any of these three, "Japanese Story," which quietly opened in Los Angeles last week and will open in New York on Jan. 16. The Australian movie, which won the Australian Film Institute's best picture award, that country's equivalent of the Academy Award earlier this year, stars Toni Collette as a geologist who falls into an unlikely romance with a Japanese businessman, played by Gotaro Tsunashima, who travels to Australia to escape the obligations of work and family. 
Sue Brooks, the Australian director of "Japanese Story," wanted to deal head-on with the cliches she had encountered in previous Western movies about Japan and address Australia's long-standing, World War II-bred hostility toward Japan. "It's sort of like an old sore that needed to be healed," said Ms. Brooks. "Not that we can heal it in one film, but we can give back that little bit." 
In one scene, an older Australian man takes the new couple out in a rowboat and muses on the country's relationship to Japan. "In the war, we thought you blokes were coming after us," he says to the character Hiromitsu, who is unlikely to understand all of what the man says. "Now you blokes own the place."
But even Ms. Brooks's movie didn't entirely steer clear of old archetypes: before he is humanized by his love affair with Sandy (Ms. Collette's character), Hiromitsu comes across as a cold, rational businessman -- another stock image from Western depictions of Japan.
Compared to much earlier attempts to portray Japanese characters in Western movies, however, the current crop might seem downright enlightened. During and immediately after World War II, in films like "Back to Bataan," the Japanese were portrayed as "buck-toothed, glasses wearing, cruel, treacherous semi-animalistic characters," said Robert Sklar, a film historian at New York University. After the war, paternalistic paeans like "Sayonara" presented sentimentalized Japanese characters, with the women in particular portrayed as mysterious and compliant, in contrast to their more feisty and independent American counterparts.
Revisionist war films like "Tora, Tora, Tora," released in 1970, said Mr. Sklar, emphasized military bravery on both sides. But in the late 1980's and early 1990's, amid fears of Japan's economic power over the auto and electronics industries, the Japanese presence in American movies came in films like "Gung Ho" and "Rising Sun," which portrayed Japanese executives as cold, dehumanized money-grubbers. 
Today, the political and economic dynamic between the two countries is less easily categorized. In the absence of any overriding conflict, the current spate of Japan-obsessed movies may simply represent the increasing popularity of Japanese culture in a rapidly globalizing world. Sushi bars are common in most major Western cities, and anime-inspired video games are rife. Japanese icons from Pokemon to Ichiro Suzuki have become familiar names.
"I think it has something probably to do with the new image that Japan is transporting as trendy and right at the very edge of new technological discoveries," Mr. Richie, the film historian, said in a telephone interview from his home in Tokyo. Mr. Richie, whose latest book, "The Image Factory: Fads and Fashions in Japan," was published in August by Reaktion Books, said that over the past decade Japan has become more familiar to Westerners through the export of its popular culture. 
That familiarity can both lessen and reinforce cultural stereotypes. The popularity of anime and Japanese technology, for example, makes "Lost in Translation" seem less exotic and more hip, particularly to the young audiences who embraced the movie. "Its general zaniness is what appeals," said Mr. Richie. "The idea that Japan is a land of ravers where non sequiturs abound is very appealing to a certain level of Americans."
"The Last Samurai," on the other hand, plays to the nostalgia for a more honorable time, as well as the rather simplistic desire to honor other cultures by appearing to adopt them. "It's almost painfully politically correct," said Mr. Richie, echoing other critics who have compared the movie to "Dances With Wolves," Kevin Costner's epic film about a white man who joins a Native American tribe.
But despite the cinematic kimonos, swords and pachinko parlors, the soul of these movies hasn't really shifted eastward. "We're embracing the culture for our own purpose, to understand ourselves," said Jeanine Basinger, chairman of the Film Studies department at Wesleyan University. "We've run out of settings in which to do it and our stories are getting tired and we have to find new clothing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THEY'RE DRAGON LADIES -- Lucy Liu and Uma Thurman in "Kill Bill Vol. 1." (Photo by Andrew Cooper/Miramax Films); THEY'RE SHORT -- Bill Murray towering over Japanesemen in "Lost in Translation." (Photo by Yoshio Sato/Focus Features); THEY'RE NOBLE WARRIORS -- Koyuki and Ken Watanabe in "The Last Samurai." (Photo by David James/Warner Brothers)(pg. 1); Toni Collette, as an Australian geologist, and Gotaro Tsunashima, as a Japanese businessman, find love in a new movie, "Japanese Story." (Photo by Samuel Goldwyn Films)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM GENRES (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); RELIGION (68%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); THEATER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



57 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2976 words

HEADLINE: Rental Developer's Manhattan Debut: Lower East Side 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES has been circling New York City with upscale rental apartment buildings in Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey, coming into the city in 2003 with a 32-story tower on the East River in Queens. Now the real estate investment trust is about to enter Manhattan with a splash.
 The company has begun laying the foundation for the first of four buildings it is putting up on land that has been the target of fierce dissension and the site of failed plans for decades. To be called Avalon Chrystie Place, its 708 apartments will be in buildings scattered across four irregular parcels sitting between East Second Street to the north, Stanton Street to the south, the Bowery to the west and Second Avenue and Chrystie Street to the east. The property, which measures more than three acres, is traversed by East First Street and Houston Street. 
 A mixed use complex, Avalon Chrystie Place is to include studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments, with 531 renting for market rates. The remaining 177 will be set aside for tenants who earn no more than 60 percent of the area median income, which for a family of four in New York City, today comes to $37,680. A multilevel community and athletic center in the first building is to be operated jointly by the University Settlement, a 117-year-old social service agency, and the Chinatown branch of Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York, and there will be 85,000 square feet of retail space. 
The venture, widely praised as the result of an unusual collaboration of state and city officials, nonprofit organizations, grass roots groups and private companies, brings to a close what has been called the longest-running dispute over an urban renewal site in the city. Designated part of the Cooper Square Urban Renewal Area in 1970 by the City Board of Estimate, it remained more or less untouched over the years, dotted by vacant lots and small, mostly unimproved, commercial and residential buildings. 
For AvalonBay Communities, winning the bid for the project from the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, marks an auspicious debut into a prime market.
It is one of the first REIT's to enter the Manhattan fray and is believed to be the first to build from the ground up. 
But, said Bryce Blair, AvalonBay's chairman and chief executive, moving into Manhattan is only one part of a broader sweep through the Northeast, which, with Southern California, is a primary focus of the REIT. 
"As our single largest community, Avalon Chrystie Place is an important signal of our interest in and commitment to the New York area," Mr. Blair said. "Our interest in the city began about seven or eight years ago, and we hope this is the first of many communities we put up there."
But, "we approach the New York area in a holistic way," he emphasized. "We didn't just say we want to be in Manhattan. What we are trying to do is to develop a portfolio of different property types across a variety of submarkets in and around New York. We can't do that without a presence in Manhattan, but our strategy is not myopically focused on Manhattan either."
Indeed, there are now AvalonBay complexes in 32 locales in the New York City area, half of them built or -- in three cases -- remodeled since 2002. Three projects are now under construction, in Glen Cove on Long Island, Milford, Conn., and Lawrenceville, N.J., and are scheduled to be occupied this year. Construction has also begun on a development in Coram, Long Island, and two more are on the drawing boards for Connecticut in the near future: one in Danbury, the other in Orange. 
AvalonBay's developments are all clearly geared to an upscale clientele, although some apartments are set aside for tenants with limited incomes. The architecture varies with the community. In Glen Cove, for example, 256 apartments are set in a rambling, multistory structure with a courtyard, pool and theater. Farther east on Long Island, in Coram, 450 two-story units with lofts will meander around an 18-hole golf course. In New Rochelle, by contrast, a second skyscraper is being planned to duplicate the first, which opened in 2001. The 25-story tower dominates the skyline and is visible for miles around.
As it has edged closer to urban centers, AvalonBay has broadened its scope. In 1994, garden apartments represented 86 percent of its inventory, with mid- and high-rises accounting for the remaining 14 percent. By last year, the balance had shifted to 71 percent for garden apartments, 25 percent for mid- and high-rises and 4 percent for town houses. Chrystie Place will be its most urban setting yet. 
"We are not cutting back on garden apartment development," said Fred Harris, the vice president of development for New York City, Westchester and Long Island. "We're simply offering a wider range of choices."

AvalonBay Communities
Target Market: People in Transition
Whatever the configuration, the company has defined its target market: people in transition. "They could be single, married with kids or empty nesters, but they tend to be people undergoing some change," Mr. Blair said. "Maybe they're 22 and in their first job or 28 and in their first marriage, 39 and in their first divorce or 62 and downsizing." As a result, he said, "The average stay is just under two years."
Although the market rate rents for the Manhattan apartments have yet to be set, Nancy Packes, president of Halstead/Feathered Nest Leasing Consultant, a marketing and leasing consultant on the project, said that if Avalon Chrystie Place were to open today, studios would probably go for about $1,900 to $2,100 a month, one bedroom apartments for $2,400 to $2,700 and two bedrooms for $3,900 to $4,400. 
AvalonBay evolved from two residential development concerns, Greenbriar Apartments Homes and a division of Trammel Crow, that were both founded in the early 1980's and later converted to REIT's. By 1994, these companies were known as Avalon Properties, based in Wilton, Conn., and Bay Apartment Communities, based in San Jose, Calif. They merged in a $2 billion transaction in 1998. All told, the company has 139 "communities," encompassing 41,237 apartments in 10 states and the District of Columbia.
As a REIT, a publicly traded company that owns income-producing real estate, it is obligated to distribute at least 90 percent of its taxable income to shareholders in the form of dividends. Its securities are worth a total of about $3.3 billion, making it the 16th largest of 172 REIT's, according to Jay Hyde, a spokesman for the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. 
Among the 20 REIT's that specialize in apartments, it ranks fourth, as measured by market capitalization, said Randy Anderson, a professor of real estate finance at Baruch College. "It is consistently among the strongest dividend payers," he said. 
The timing of its entry into Manhattan is propitious in Mr. Blair's view. "Tactically you have to ask, 'When do you begin a community?' " he said. "You want to do that with the wind at your back and not in your face. The economy is still tenuous, but compared to a year ago, there are positive signals -- gross domestic product, modest job increases, improving corporate profits -- that give us comfort. And the impact on our stock has been good." 
A key to the company's success is the way it chooses communities in which to build, and its approach may seem counterintuitive to the layman. It limits its searches to "high barrier to entry" areas, where developers encounter obstacles to construction, strict zoning limitations or community resistance. Such projects expose the company to lengthy delays, high legal bills and intense community opposition, but they also mean less competition from other developers. 
According to Dr. Anderson, that is a laudable strategy. "The markets in which you are the most at risk are those in which it is easiest to build," he said. "If you are able to get into a difficult market like New York, where supply is constrained, you run a lower risk of oversupply."
In suburban areas, Mr. Harris said, "high barrier to entry means building in New Canaan or Bronxville, where they don't want apartments at all. In the city, it means going after sites where we see value but no one else does, like Long Island City." Its Avalon Riverview, part of the Queens West development site, sits on the East River opposite the United Nations. 
One of the company's requirements for a site is that it be near transportation. In New Rochelle, for example, the Metro-North station is outside the back door of the building. But nowhere will it be in closer proximity than at Chrystie Place, where the first building will sit atop the tunnels for the B and D subway lines. It will also be steps away from the proposed Second Avenue subway and indeed part of the retail space of the building has to be designed so that it can some day be converted to a subway entrance. 
Among the barriers AvalonBay encountered for the Chrystie Place project, in fact, was the challenge of designing a complex that could be built on top of the subway. 
"There were a lot of specific limitations due to the existing subway system whose roof was designed to receive specific loads, and every exercise we have undertaken to integrate new stations with a new building turns into an adventure," said James Davidson, a partner at Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron Architects, which did the preliminary planning, massing and interior layouts for three of the four buildings. (Arquitectonica did the master plan and the facade and collaborated with RJP Architects on one of the buildings, which is to be owned by Phipps Houses.)
Another complication arose from the fact that at the time the design was being formulated, a zoning code revision, known as the Unified Bulk Program, was proposed, although it was never approved. "So this community conforms to a code never adopted," Mr. Harris said.

Urban Renewal Area
A Thorny Path To Development
Whatever the problems or prospects for the complex, there is little disagreement that the property it will occupy was long overdue for development. "When the market was strong, there was no consensus on it, and when the market was weak the consensus was always for something unfeasible," said John Shapiro, a city planner and consultant with the firm of Phillips Preiss Shapiro & Associates, who was recruited by James F. Lima, then an assistant commissioner at the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, to do conflict resolution work with representatives of the various factions. 
"Plans were adopted and not carried out, promises were made and broken and there was a tremendous amount of bitterness on the part of constituents, leaders and agencies," Mr. Shapiro recalled. "Lower East Side community gardeners, historic building advocates, cultural mavens, antidevelopment residents, major real estate interests were all making very vocal demands. There were almost insurmountable divisions between the Hispanic community and left-wing housing advocates."
In 1996, Fran Reiter, then a deputy mayor, assembled a task force charged with producing a viable plan encompassing both the vacant land and occupied buildings on 4.35 acres in the Cooper Square Urban Renewal Area. The task force included representatives of more than a dozen interests, including City Council members, agency officials and grass-roots leaders. The task force was headed by Mr. Lima. 
"I asked every player in the area, 'What is your bottom line?' and told them, 'I promise you we will meet it and if we can't we will get back to you,' " Mr. Shapiro said. "People had strong opinions on everything from the preservation of the gardens to the necessity for curb cuts to where the entrances to the community center should be. In the end, every player felt something fell short, but we met everyone's bottom line."
Among the more intractable demands that were honored was the preservation of a community garden -- the Liz Christy Bowery-Houston Garden -- and the positioning of the buildings so that no shadows are cast on it. Over all, the effort to achieve consensus was a diplomatic triumph.
As Jerilyn Perine, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development commissioner, put it: "It is a great accomplishment when with a high degree of public engagement you can take a site that has been dormant for decades and the source of great controversy and create a highly engaged process where people get to be heard, and build a project that will be better than what any participant could achieve on their own." 
The agreement led to what Adam Weinstein, president and chief executive of Phipps Houses, a partner in Chrsytie Venture Partners, the entity formed for the project, described as "one of the most challenging requests for proposal ever seen." 
"When a seller sells, they usually ask for the purchase price and don't say, 'You have to restrict 25 percent of the units, build a community center and we want retail and a supermarket,' " he said. "And then not every site has a subway tunnel running through it." A nonprofit housing developer, Phipps Houses will own and operate one of the Avalon Chrystie Place buildings, which will be limited to low-income residents.
Chrystie Venture Partners was chosen to be the developer in 2000, beating out such contenders as the Related Companies and the DeMatteis Organization. The fact that it was a newcomer to the scene was not seen as a deterrent. 
"AvalonBay was a nontraditional company, and this was a nontraditional project for them, but they were an out-of-town firm that understood how to do business in New York and had deep pockets," said Mr. Lima, who is now president of the Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation.
The total cost of the project, including land, is estimated to run about $150 million. AvalonBay has already paid the city $13.5 million for the land, the first installment on a $40.5 million purchase price.
The New York State Common Retirement Fund will provide $25 million in equity financing, which will constitute 80 percent of the equity. AvalonBay will provide another $6 million in equity. Additional financing will come from the sale of $117 million in tax exempt bonds issued by the New York State Housing Finance Agency. There will be no bank loans involved. 
In addition, Chrystie Venture Partners will be granted property tax and sales tax exemptions on the retail development through an agreement with the Empire State Development Corporation. 
Strikingly, construction has begun without closure of the agreements. This did not keep numerous public and private officials from celebrating at the recent groundbreaking ceremony. 
"We are nontraditional because most developers don't start doing anything until all that is in place," Mr. Harris of AvalonBay said. "As a REIT, we have our own financial wherewithal."
In return for tax breaks, the city required that 25 percent of the apartments in the complex go to tenants earning no more than 60 percent of median income, with those tenants to be chosen by lottery. As of now, the income ceiling is $37,680 for a family of four, but that could be adjusted before the building is ready for occupancy and the qualifying candidates chosen.

Avalon Chrystie Place
Setting Aside Units With Income Ceilings
The building on the Bowery and First Street, which will have 42 units, is to be reserved entirely for low-income residents. The remainder of the 135 apartments in the "affordable" category, for which limitations on income will be even more stringent at 50 percent of area median income, will be distributed through the other buildings.
The income caps in those buildings were set by the New York State Housing Finance Agency as a condition of the bonds it is issuing.
The decision to restrict one building to low income tenants was based in part on the hope that income caps there will not be lifted when the bond financing for the entire project expires in 30 years and in part on financial incentives that are not available to mixed buildings. 
The other three buildings could, after their tax benefits are run out, become entirely market-rate buildings. But tenants in occupancy 30 years from now will be protected by rent stabilization, providing that system remains in place. 
Mr. Weinstein of Phipps Houses said: "There are programs available for financing of projects with a greater proportion of low-income people and doing this makes the remaining buildings more like other products in the marketplace. We raised the isolation issue with the community board, but this really will be one community, not like a homeless shelter in the middle of luxury housing."
If there is any element that will forge community, it will probably be the community center, which is to be owned and operated jointly by the University Settlement and the Y.M.C.A. "Everything in it was requested by the community," said Michael Zisser, executive director of the settlement. 
The 42,000-square-foot three-level facility will include a gym, a 75-foot pool, a fitness center, four classrooms, three meeting rooms and offices available to community organizations. After-school, cultural enrichment and literacy programs and college advisory services are among the ideas being floated, 
By and large even skeptics have made their peace with the complex. "We didn't object to putting in market-rate housing, but we just didn't want so much of it," said Steve Herrick, executive director of the Cooper Square Committee, a tenants rights organization that works to preserve economic and ethnic diversity in the neighborhood. "We didn't feel that there was enough low-income housing." 
Still, "the developer has dealt in good faith with us and I think it looks pretty good," he said. "People may not be thrilled, but they have moved on -- and low-income people are now calling us for applications."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A rendering of the first building in the Avalon Chrystie Place project on the Lower East Side last Sunday, with an article about AvalonBay Communities, carried an erroneous credit. It was by Arquitectonica.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Development plan had to be acceptable to many parties in Cooper Square Urban Renewal Area. (Photo by Monika Graff for The New York Times); AvalonBay is building 256 apartments in a rambling structure in Glen Cove, Long Island. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times); (Photo by SLCE Architects)(pg. 1); John Shapiro of Phillips Preiss Shapiro & Associates, Adam Weinstein of Phipps Houses, Fred Harris of AvalonBay and Commissioner Jerilyn Perine at Avalon Chrystie Place site. (Photo by Monika Graff for The New York Times); AvalonBay is planning a second apartment tower in New Rochelle to match one that opened in 2001. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 6) Map of Manhattan highlighting East Village: The project's first building, shown in the rendering, is the one on the south side of East Houston Street. It is to include a multilevel community and athletic center and more than 85,000 square feet of retail space. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (59%)

TICKER: AVB (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



58 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Let New York's Veterans Vend 

BYLINE:  By Mitchell Duneier; Mitchell Duneier, a sociology professor at Princeton and the City University of New York Graduate Center, is author of "Sidewalk."

 BODY:
Some time this month, leaders in Albany are expected to decide whether to once again limit where vendors can sell their wares in New York City. The vendors -- many of them disabled veterans who sell leather belts, perfume and other goods -- have been largely blamed for the overcrowding of Manhattan's sidewalks, especially during the recent holidays. Albany had allowed a previous vending law to expire in March and then failed to vote on a new one in time for the Christmastime crush. 
 Before they consider the issue once again, though, lawmakers should try to come up with a more thoughtful solution. While there are undoubtedly more vendors, particularly in Midtown, they are hardly to blame for New York's congested sidewalks. Nor is limiting their numbers year-round the humane response in a city with a rich history of helping those who have served their country well. 
 The issue goes back to 1894, when the State Legislature granted physically disabled veterans from the Civil War exemptions from municipal laws limiting hawking or peddling. The gesture has had a powerful impact ever since, benefiting soldiers who fought in the two World Wars, Korea and Vietnam. For most disabled veterans, there are better alternatives to working outside. But there have always been some whose wounds make it impossible for them to adjust to the formal economy. Through sidewalk selling, they have found a way to make a living. 
Then in 1991, as soldiers returned from the Persian Gulf, Tom Cusick, the president of the Fifth Avenue Association, struck deals with city and state officials that in effect restricted the veterans' numbers in Midtown by making the most congested sidewalks, particularly those on major avenues, off limits. In exchange, the association contributed $400,000 to veterans' groups and agreed to offer jobs to every veteran holding a peddler's license at that time.
When the measure expired some nine months ago, more disabled veterans (nobody knows how many, but my own rough canvass shows 70 or so) began selling goods in Midtown. Along with them came sellers of books and artworks who, the courts and city law say, can set up on blocks where the veterans do. But even with them, the impact of vendors on the city's sidewalks was minimal, especially on major thoroughfares like Fifth Avenue.
A closer look indicates that the problems lie elsewhere. Consider the heavily traveled Herald Square area. Take a walk down the west side of Broadway between 33rd and 34th Streets, where there isn't a single vendor on the sidewalk (a parking lane there has been set aside for them). Nevertheless, this is one of the city's most congested blocks. Why? Start counting the large potted plants. There are 27 planters on the sidewalk there. Since the early 1990's, they have become the dominant strategy used by Business Improvement Districts to reduce the number of legal sidewalk spaces for vendors. Think of it this way: it's easier to install a planter than to fight a First Amendment battle against vendors and artists.
The strategy worked. But unlike some other policies by the Business Improvement Districts that have greatly enhanced city life, this one hasn't. It has made walking down the street difficult, especially since planters are just one of the many kinds of "street furniture" that increasingly dot blocks. News boxes and broken phone booths also eat up chunks of pedestrian space. Then there is scaffolding, which has proliferated over the past few years. It is supposed to stay up only for facade repair and construction, but often remains in place long after work is completed. Building owners can make money from the advertising posted to the scaffolding or cut costs by leaving it in place between different phases of projects. 
Amid all this, vendors have been trying to wedge themselves into the remaining nooks and crannies, giving the false impression that they are the problem. Then the holidays arrived and with them came the throngs of tourists and shoppers. In the absence of any meaningful examination of sidewalk life, the vendors became the easy target among city officials and business owners who were concerned about overcrowding. 
Let's hope the extra time the State Legislature is spending on the new law will allow everyone to think more clearly about the matter. As it stands now, though, things don't look promising. The proposal in Albany apparently seeks to keep the vendors off major avenues, approximately from 30th to 64th Streets, throughout the year. And this time around, there have been no high-profile reports indicating that the business community is offering either jobs or aid to disabled veterans in exchange for limiting their livelihood. 
Lawmakers need to go back to the drawing board and come up with an overarching sidewalk policy based on a systematic study of current needs and uses. Much of the overcrowding can be solved simply by addressing the block-by-block narrowing of sidewalk space by street furniture. The city could also designate some parking lanes for vending, as it did between 33rd and 34th Streets. These moves alone can make walking down congested sidewalks less like an Olympic event.
One has to wonder whether state legislation is even necessary. By using those measures and by closing certain streets to peddlers during peak times of the holiday season, the city could effectively deal with the situation. In fact, most vendors want stable spots where they can work year-round. If congested areas like Rockefeller Center, the Empire State Building and the narrow crosstown streets around Grand Central Terminal were off limits around Christmas, the ban would discourage vendors from setting up shop there other times of the year.
No one is arguing to protect the scores of unlicensed vendors who sell counterfeit goods. But cracking down on them should not come at the cost of stripping away the longstanding right of disabled veterans to make a living. It's hard to imagine that state lawmakers would want to find themselves doing just that, especially at a time when our country is at war. With the number of seriously wounded in Iraq far higher than that in the first gulf war, is the most humane and prudent thing to limit their options before they even return home? Neither Albany nor City Hall can afford to underestimate this moment -- not just for the sake of disabled veterans but also for other vendors and artists who are carving out a living on the sidewalks of New York. 
Americans often measure patriotism by how vocal our support is for our troops when they are fighting abroad. Perhaps the better test is what we do once they return home to face a future they never anticipated. This isn't the time to abandon them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Olivier Kugler) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (91%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CHRISTMAS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



59 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Make the Street Fair Less Generic 

BYLINE:  By Brian Lehrer; Brian Lehrer is a talk-show host on WNYC radio in New York.

 BODY:
The political battle over vendors the city doesn't want on its streets got me to thinking about those it apparently does -- the ones who populate those ubiquitous street fairs. You know the kind I mean -- the ones with the close-out underwear, the $5 sunglasses, the butter-drowned corn on the cob. Over the past 20 years, these fairs have multiplied like discount drugstores along Manhattan thoroughfares. 
 So much so, in fact, that the city, which last year temporarily capped permits for multiblock fairs at 270 annually, now plans to make the cap permanent. That already allows you to attend an average of two fairs every three days. Officials say the city cannot afford to pay any more overtime for the officers they deploy on the sausages and fruit shakes beat. 
 Such a cap may well be wise, given New York's current resources. But we also need to stop and rethink what street fairs have turned into. Sadly, they have come to represent the triumph of commerce over culture, the marginalization of community in the name of community. Not to mention what they do to traffic.
Once upon a time, street fairs were an expression of the streets they were on. Find a New Yorker of a certain age eating a street fair funnel cake, and he's likely to wax nostalgic about a bygone era of homegrown street culture. Maybe it was a block party on West 107th Street, or the legendary 52nd Street Festival. 
The sponsors were usually block or neighborhood associations, and the goals were to enable neighbors to meet one another and raise money. On some blocks, just the act of partying outside helped put drug dealers on notice that they would not own the streets forever. Then, the fairs were actually destinations. Today, you just run into them. Maybe you buy the souvlaki, maybe you don't. But they are as standardized and dreary as a suburban mall.
What happened? Essentially, a good thing got out of hand. By the 1990's, block associations and other nonprofit groups realized tens of thousands of dollars could be made. The city also gets a cut based on vendor fees -- a total of about $10 million since 1995, it says. Professional promoters got into the act, and recruited more nonprofits. Cheap imported crafts and clothing from Ecuador and India came to replace locally made wares. New York artists and clothing designers fled to higher-end crafts fairs and flea markets because they couldn't compete. 
Which raises the question: if street fairs are so awful, why do they do so well? In Midtown, tourists are the main reason -- New York tchotchkes cheap. As for us locals, the funny thing is I know almost no one who claims to like the fairs, yet everyone seems to go. I, for one, am a sucker for that corn. Once, I even bought one of those big pairs of sunglasses that fit over my regular glasses. They had me feeling darn good about life for about five minutes, until I spotted myself in a mirror. Oh, the shame. 
At a time when money is in short supply for nonprofits, it's hard to get too worked up about the social cost of revenue-generating street fairs. But this is New York. We're supposed to care about creativity and commerce. And we can have both. 
In fact, some fairs already do. One held by the 92nd Street Y highlights Jewish-themed vendors. The Earth Day fair promotes environmental themes. The Ninth Avenue International Food Festival celebrates local restaurants and people. But there's a downside that keeps those fairs to a minimum, says one promoter, candidly: "More work, same buck." 
The problem with a cap is that it threatens to perpetuate all this mediocrity. City policy puts seniority first in choosing among permit applications. That means today's fairs will be tomorrow's fairs will be forever's fairs. Jonathan Greenspun, commissioner of the Community Assistance Unit, which grants the permits, says the city must take a hands-off policy toward their content, asserting that it would be as unconstitutional to judge their quality as it would for government "to favor Manet over Monet."
The East Village is a case in point. One of the city's best street fairs last year was the first annual Howl! Festival, along St. Marks Place. It was vibrant with local artists and activities. Its organizers, the Federation of East Village Artists, bypassed the commercial promoters, relying instead on fund-raising and corporate sponsors. Next year, they want to do more. But the cap would forbid it.
Yet the city does make other value judgments. It insists that sponsors be based in the neighborhood. That's good. And government at all levels does judge art -- take grants, for example. Must our streets belong to tube sock vendors until the end of time because of seniority? Sponsors could do more, too, by reserving spots for local or inventive material and by partly subsidizing young artists. 
As street fairs once helped reclaim blocks, the blocks should now save the fairs from themselves. Today, they are just another cog in the economy, posing as part of the neighborhood. They should be at least partly about the streets they are on. Today, like "Seinfeld," they are about nothing.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Olivier Kugler) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); FASHION DESIGN (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); SUBURBS (64%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



60 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Samantha Klein, Bernardo Cocco

 BODY:
Samantha Megan Klein, a daughter of Sherryl and Alan Klein of New York, is to be married today to Bernardo Cocco, a son of Sara and Guido Cocco of Cagliari, Sardinia. Dr. David Posner, the senior rabbi of Temple Emanu-El in New York, is to perform the ceremony there. 
 The bride, 30, worked until recently in Kigali, Rwanda, as an adolescence project officer for Unicef. She graduated from Tufts and received a master's of science degree from the London School of Economics. Her parents own the Marketing Agency, a consulting firm in New York and Paris. 
 The bridegroom, 32, is a management specialist in the budget and resources office for the United Nations Development Program in New York. He graduated from Sussex University in England and received a master's degree in development studies from the London School of Economics. His parents, who are retired, worked in Cagliari. His mother taught high school social studies and his father was a partner in a civil engineering firm.
The couple met in 2000 in Kosovo; the bride was working for the International Rescue Committee and the bridegroom was a civil affairs officer for the United Nations mission. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); BUDGETS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (51%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: KLEIN, SAMANTHA MEGAN (SAMANTHA MEGAN COCCO); COCCO, BERNARDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (90%); ENGLAND (55%); FRANCE (54%); KOSOVO (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



61 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2624 words

HEADLINE: The Joyless Recovery 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: ROCKFORD, Ill. 

 BODY:
THE stock market is surging and the economy appears to be booming, but Judith Pike is getting out of business. "I'm finished; I'm out of here," said Mrs. Pike, owner of Acme Grinding, whose customers have been vanishing and whose work force has shrunk from 40 to 4. Two days before Christmas, Mrs. Pike sold her business and more than 40 machines used to grind and finish metal parts. "It will be for pennies on the dollar," she said. "Less than what it cost to buy just one of these machines."
 Considering that nearly every scrap of data suggests that the American economy has finally climbed out of the doldrums and is humming at its fastest pace in at least four years, Mrs. Pike's timing may seem unfortunate. But here in Rockford, and in the nation as a whole, factory owners like her have seen their worlds turned upside down. And their struggle goes a long way toward explaining why this continues to be such a joyless recovery. 
 More than 11,000 jobs have disappeared in and around Rockford in the last three years, and many of those are not expected to return. Motorola shut down a big repair plant not far from Mrs. Pike's company last year, eliminating more than 1,000 jobs, even as it invested $1.9 billion in a new electronics factory in China. Textron is closing several factories that make metal fasteners. And industrial parks are swimming in "for sale" and "for lease" signs.
 "We've been through downturns before, but this time it's different," said Malcolm Anderberg, owner of Dial Machine Inc., which does contract manufacturing. "This time, the work is leaving the country, and it's not coming back."
 In part, this is an old story -- and one not unique to Rockford. Manufacturers have been shedding jobs in the United States for decades, moving plants to low-wage countries or squeezing ever more production from fewer workers at home. But the process accelerated recently, with manufacturers trimming a whopping 2.8 million jobs over the last three years alone. A study published in August by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York concluded that more than half of those job losses stemmed from structural changes and were likely permanent.
 History leaves little doubt that new jobs will eventually replace the old, and that workers' incomes can still rise. But the outlook for the short and medium term remains grim. This is the second "jobless recovery," the first having occurred after the slowdown in 1990 and 1991. Before then, factories in cyclical industries had tended to be the biggest source of employment gains once the economy began to revive. Now the bounce has to come from other areas. And this time, even those sectors have been less than gung-ho about hiring. 
 Still, Rockford has become a case study of how an industrial area can respond to a shifting economic landscape. This city has long been synonymous with manufacturing. It has scores of automobile suppliers, tool-and-die makers, machine-tool producers and small companies that provide contract manufacturing services. The unemployment rate is nearly 11 percent in the city and about 8 percent in the surrounding Rock River Valley, much higher than the national average of 5.9 percent.
But the news is not all bleak. Confronted with the choice between adapting or dying off, Rockford has tried to reinvent itself. "We are in a global economy, and we are in the throes of a major transformation," said Robert Levin, executive director of the Council of 100, a business-promotion group here.
 Rockford's sprawling airport, which has almost no passenger traffic, has become a fast-growing cargo handling center. United Parcel Service employs 1,500 people there, making the airport its second-largest hub, after Louisville, Ky. All told, 3,000 people work at the airport, which handled 1.4 billion pounds of freight last year.
 Telephone call centers just outside town employ about 5,000 people, mostly part-time workers who earn about $10 an hour. The pay is lower than in most factories, and many people worry that even these jobs will be pulled away to the fast-growing call centers of India or the Philippines. But MCI, the long-distance carrier, has built a center with more than 1,000 workers and is still hiring.
 Rockford is also becoming a bedroom community. New housing developments are attracting people from Chicago's western suburbs, about 70 miles away. (The prospect of four-bedroom homes for $169,000 seems to make the commute more tolerable.) Reflecting the influx, Wal-Mart, which already owns one big store outside town, is building two more in the area. Target and Home Depot are each opening a second store in the area as well.
 So far, none of this has come close to filling the void left by the loss of manufacturing jobs. The big question is whether the remaining industries also transform themselves or move away entirely. The answer could determine the shape of the economic expansion in the months and years ahead.
 THOUGH more extreme than in some other parts of the country, Rockford's unemployment problems fit in with a broader national trend. Like their counterparts elsewhere, many executives here are increasingly confident that business is picking up, but they are also reluctant to hire extra workers. Companies are either convinced that they can extract more productivity from the employees they already have or are worried that they will be overstaffed if the expansion turns out to be another false start.
 Most evidence suggests that the economy is moving into high gear after one of the feeblest recoveries in history. Economic growth soared at an annual rate of 8.2 percent in the third quarter of 2003, and economists say they think it will climb nearly 4 percent this year. 
Business spending, the weakest component of the economy more than a year after the recession officially ended, is now growing rapidly. Orders for new equipment shot up at the fastest pace in 20 years in December, rising for the sixth month in a row, according to a survey by the Institute for Supply Management that was released on Friday. Industrial production jumped 0.9 percent in November, the third increase in a row and the biggest in four years, according to the Federal Reserve. Perhaps most encouraging, the increases were spread across most sectors of industry.
 Despite all the good news, employment continues to climb much more slowly than in previous recoveries. Many people took heart when the Labor Department reported that the economy added a total of 236,000 jobs in September and October. But just 57,000 jobs were created in November, and most employers remain cautious about expanding their payrolls.
 Given the growth of the working-age population, the nation needs to add around 250,000 jobs a month to achieve a significant decline in unemployment before the November election. Economists are skeptical that job creation will hit that pace, in part because companies of all types have been getting ever more work out of the same number of workers.
 Productivity climbed at an annual rate of 9.4 percent in the third quarter of 2003, and it has risen at an annual rate of 5 percent for the last several quarters. If the pace continues at anywhere near that level, the economy would have to grow by far more than 4 percent a year to bring down the jobless rate.
China is the other big factor. Lobbyists for manufacturers attribute many of their woes to that nation, which is running a trade surplus with the United States of roughly $125 billion. But a large percentage of Chinese imports come from subcontractors of American manufacturers, which are themselves trying to take advantage of China's low costs.
 Whether jobs are being lost to China or merely to higher productivity, many companies remain nervous about hiring even if business is picking up. "It's busier for us than it has been for the past four years," said Eric Anderberg, general manager of Dial Machine and the son of the founder. "The problem is, there's nothing that gives me the sense of a sustained recovery."
 FOUNDED in 1890 at the dawn of the automotive era, Rockford Powertrain, a maker of transmission equipment for heavy-duty trucks, is still profitable and exports its products all over the world. But these days, it does little manufacturing. Its main business is logistics.
 "We want to stay in Rockford," said Thomas M. Corcoran, the company's president. "We just don't want to manufacture here."
 Over the past decade, Rockford Powertrain has stopped producing most of its components at home and started buying almost all of them abroad -- from South Korea, Poland, Germany and, most of all, China. The number of employees in Rockford has dropped from 800 in 1988 to 250, and the work is limited largely to assembly, quality control and management.
 In October, Mr. Corcoran took his international plans further, selling what he called a "substantial minority stake" in the company to the Wanxiang Group, one of China's largest auto parts suppliers. The deal, he said, will give him more reliable access to a major Chinese supplier and to the booming Chinese market. 
 There may be more deals like that to come. Given the globalization of both suppliers and customers, he said he could imagine selling off additional stakes to investors in India, Germany and other countries.
 Rockford Powertrain still occupies a 625,000-square-foot factory here, but that, too, is changing. Two weeks ago, Mr. Corcoran agreed to sell the plant and lease back about half the space until he can move the company to a smaller and more appropriate location. "The plant was designed for a different business model," Mr. Corcoran said. "We don't need that much space today."
 Rockford Powertrain is but one example of a broader shift away from domestic manufacturing, a trend that appears to have accelerated sharply since the economic downturn in 2001. Intense global competition is expected to force factories to keep squeezing their work forces and to focus tightly on areas where they have a special technological edge or can offer highly customized services. Even if some manufacturing companies remain vibrant, they are not expected to supply many new jobs, and the real economic growth will continue to come from services.
 "The relative decline in manufacturing employment is real, as is the decline in the manufacturing share of national income," said N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, in a speech last month.
 Mr. Mankiw compared the trend in manufacturing to that in farming over the last century. Farm production has increased, but the proportion of people working in agriculture has dropped from 40 percent a century ago to 2 percent now.
 "Both job creation and job destruction are part of the process by which countries gain from trade," he said. "Free trade encourages each country to specialize in what it does best. It thereby raises national incomes both at home and abroad."
 In Rockford, industry is far from dead. But business has been transformed, often with great pain. One of the few thriving metalworking industries here is the business of scrap metal -- mainly because of voracious demand from Chinese steel mills. Some of the metal is discarded industrial machinery from factories that have closed.
 "China has a need for a tremendous amount of raw material," said Bill Day, chief financial officer at Joseph Behr & Sons, a large trader in scrap metal here.
 Generally, production at home is becoming less important than logistics and shipping. Companies that once sold easy-to-replicate products to nearby car companies are being bypassed by distant rivals in China. "We have lost our technological edge, our pricing edge and in many cases our quality advantage," said Eric Anderberg of Dial Machine, testifying before a recent panel on manufacturing that was convened by the Commerce Department. 
 Carl Bradberry, owner of a small machining shop near Rockford called S&B Jig Grinding, produces machine parts engineered to a precision of less than the diameter of a human hair. Mr. Bradberry took out a second mortgage on his vacation cabin to keep the company going, and in November he saw his first profit in nearly four years. But even now, many of his machines are idle.
 Increasingly, the companies that survive are those that function like boutiques. They offer specialized products with unusual craftsmanship, and they deliver on short notice.
 North American Tool, which makes precision tool parts, was able to retain its 100 employees over the last three years and is now beginning to have a solid pickup in demand. But it specializes in customized parts ordered by the dozens rather than the thousands, and it has shrunk its delivery time on most orders to just one day. Even with all that, company executives say they must constantly look for new market niches or the next idea.
 "The good old days are gone for good," said Roger K. Taylor, the chief executive. "I don't know what our company will be doing in two years, but it will almost certainly be different from what it looks like today."
 Here is Robert O'Brien's next big idea: nonstop passenger flights between Rockford and Budapest. As in Hungary.
 Far-fetched? Not necessarily. As executive director of the Northwest Chicagoland Regional Airport, Rockford's sprawling but underused airport, Mr. O'Brien is confident that this region is on the verge of becoming a major logistical center.
 Though it is big enough to handle Boeing 747's and military transport planes, the airport has become so overshadowed by O'Hare International in Chicago that it has had virtually no passenger air service for more than a decade.
 But rather than go out of business, the Rockford airport has turned itself into a busy cargo center. In addition to the U.P.S. hub, the airport also houses some operations of BAX Global and DHL, two other big shipping concerns.
 That transformation mirrors a strategic shift for the Rock River Valley area. Manufacturing is either stagnant or in decline, but transportation and logistics are booming. In the town of Rochelle, 30 miles to the south, the Union Pacific Corporation has built a new "intermodal" transportation center that it hopes will become a major transfer point for truck and rail cargo.
 Local officials say they have a big opportunity to steal cargo business from Chicago. "I think we're sitting on top of a gold mine," said Mr. O'Brien, the airport executive. 
 BUT even with the increase in cargo traffic, he said the airport was still operating at less than 10 percent of its capacity. So he and other local leaders want to resurrect passenger air service. 
 Knowing they had no chance to compete against O'Hare on flights to most American cities, they decided to focus on specialty routes and little-known airlines. In August, TransMeridian Airlines, a small charter company, started regular flights to Las Vegas and Orlando, Fla. The service has carried about 11,000 passengers so far, Mr. O'Brien said.
 Now he is pushing a deal with Malev, the Hungarian airline, to offer regular nonstop flights between Rockford and Budapest. Demand for that route may seem limited, but Rockford officials say Malev would attract tens of thousands of American travelers who would use Budapest as a low-cost jumping-off point to the rest of Europe.
 Mr. O'Brien envisions Rockford playing host to an array of low-cost airlines, domestic and international, that would offer travelers low prices in exchange for destinations that are slightly less convenient.
 Last month, Rockford officials welcomed Hungary's ambassador to the United States and executives from Malev. The Hungarians said they were intrigued, but they have not yet bought into the idea.
 If they do not, Mr. O'Brien says, he has other deals in the works.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Rockford, Ill., machinery from closed factories is scrapped, and the metal is sent to Chinese steel mills.; Judith Pike is shutting down Acme Grinding in Rockford. The company's work force has shrunk from 40 to 4. (Photographs by Scott L. Gribble for The New York Times)(pg. 7); (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Suffering Sector"The overall economy has picked up . . . Graph tracks quarterly changes at annual rates, seasonally adjusted, for Gross Domestic Product since 1990. . . . but manufacturing has not been as quick to recover . . . Graph tracks quarterly changes at annual rates, seasonally adjusted, for Manufacturing Industrial Production since 1990. . . . leaving plants underutilized . . . Graph tracks manufacturing capacity utilization, seasonally adjusted, since 1990. Graph also highlights 1972-'02 avg. . . . and about three million people out of jobs. Graph tracks monthly manufacturing employment from 1990 through November 2003. (Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis; Federal Reserve Board; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) MOTOROLA INC (MOT) 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



62 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1846 words

HEADLINE: A Designer Lets Loose In the 'Year of the Car' 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
WHEN the Ford Motor Company landed J Mays as design chief in 1997, it was considered something of a coup. Well spoken and well coiffed, Mr. Mays was among the most celebrated and daring young designers in the business. In his previous job, he had presided over the imaginative reinvention of the Volkswagen Beetle into a car that managed to revive the old Bug's spirit while being thoroughly modern at the same time. 
 At Ford, Mr. Mays has applied a similar makeover to the legendary Thunderbird, but over all, his stamp on the company has been hard to discern. 
 Part of the problem is the length of production cycles, which make quick turnarounds tough. And Ford's product development pace has been particularly tortoiselike in recent years, as the automaker has been beset by management shake-ups, financial struggles, lagging quality ratings and a lack of focus on its core business. 
 But since William Clay Ford Jr., Henry Ford's great-grandson, took over as chief executive in 2001, he has pledged to rededicate the company to product development. So, after more than six years on the job, Mr. Mays, 49, finally has a chance to redefine a car line that has been characterized by the long-in-the-tooth Taurus flagship.
 This fall, Ford plans to introduce the first entries in a suite of new high-volume cars: the Five Hundred, a large, upscale sedan; a 2005 model Mustang that looks like an interstellar reinterpretation of the one Steve McQueen drove in "Bullitt"; and the Montego, a new midsize sedan from the Mercury division.
 The company will also offer an exotic, limited-production sports car, the GT, which will start at $140,000. 
 Ford and the rest of the industry are also rushing to sell crossovers, a growing category of alternatives to sport utility vehicles combining car and truck features. The Ford Freestyle, also scheduled to go on sale in the fall, has a dozen cupholders and meshes minivan with S.U.V.
 Production versions of Ford's Five Hundred, Mustang and Freestyle will be shown here at the North American International Auto Show, which begins its press previews today. And next year, the company will add a midsize car, the Futura, to fill out the Ford brand's car lineup.
 SO, in a sense, 2004 will be something of a debut for Mr. Mays, Ford's group vice president for design. 
 "There's been a lot of speculation, and a lot of articles written, about how the Japanese sort of took the car business away from Americans," Mr. Mays said in an interview last month. "To a certain degree that might be true, but to a larger degree I think the Americans walked away from the car business," he added. "And I know at Ford we were so enamored with the success of our truck and S.U.V. business, and the great revenue that those products generated, that we probably lost focus."
 Certainly, bolstering car profits, long flat, is viewed by analysts as vital to the health of the Big Three. Ford, like General Motors and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler, has said that it wants to start making cars that people might buy without $4,500 rebates or zero percent financing. The Detroit-area automakers have gone so far as to call 2004 the "year of the car" as a backdrop for the auto show. 
 Beyond a doubt, Ford has made strides since Mr. Ford took over. But it is hardly a picture of health. After reporting a cumulative loss of $6.4 billion for 2001 and 2002, a slim net profit, in the range of $300 million to $400 million, is expected for 2003. Still, foreign automakers like the Toyota Motor Corporation are far more profitable and are flooding the market with S.U.V.'s and pickups, Detroit's crucial profit lifeline. 
 Scott Sprinzen, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's, wrote recently in a report that "Ford has little earnings diversity" because it is so dependent on S.U.V. and pickup sales. By his calculation, the company's North American passenger cars are not profitable, one among many reasons he downgraded the company's debt to BBB-, which is one notch above a junk rating. 
 Winning back car buyers won't be easy. "It's very tough. They have to build a series of home-run cars over the next several years," said Csaba Csere, the editor of Car and Driver magazine. "They didn't lose American car buyers overnight, and they're not going to win them back overnight. Being close to a Camry or an Accord isn't going to cut it. They have to do better."
 Mr. Mays, with striking blue eyes and close-cropped gray hair, carries himself like the kind of urbane and upscale customer Ford wants to woo. He grew up in Maysville, Okla., a town named for an ancestor. Fifty miles south of Oklahoma City, it has a population of about 1,100. His father was a rancher, and his brother runs a ranch and farm there. 
 His love of cars came from his grandfather, A J Mays, from whom he received his single-letter name. Grandfather Mays was an Indy pit crew veteran and car buff who built a mile-long go-cart track on the Mays ranch. 
 "For a time period there in the mid-60's, we would have hundreds of people descend on our farm from Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and Texas every weekend to race," Mr. Mays recalled. "So I grew up breathing far more methanol than I probably should have, and as a 6-year-old walking around the pits and watching my brother and dad race, that was a complete turn-on to me."
 He also drew, and loved, the cars of his youth. "I was absolutely fascinated by cars of the late 50's and early 60's, and to this day, those retain an important meaning to me in all of my memories of childhood," he said. "I think cars from the early 60's embodied the entire ideal that anything is possible in this country."
 So what went wrong? 
 "I think they lost it in the 70's with the gas crisis," he said. Many designers and auto executives see the advent of fuel-economy regulations as having stifled design because they initially led Detroit to make vehicles smaller and lighter, though some of the most innovative recent designs have come in the smallest packages, from the Beetle to the Mini Cooper, from BMW. 
 After a stint at the University of Oklahoma studying journalism, Mr. Mays transferred to Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif., one of the world's top auto design schools.
 HE and his classmates of the late 1970's would go on to become some of the world's top designers. They included Chris Bangle, now BMW's design chief, and Freeman Thomas, a top DaimlerChrysler designer who worked with Mr. Mays at Volkswagen and collaborated on the Beetle project. 
 "We were a bunch of reckless dreamers," Mr. Mays said. "We hated everything that was going on in Detroit. We were hellbent on the future, and customers be damned. "That's the design aesthetic of an uninitiated student. Only when you get into the industry, and you realize the economic realities -- oh, you're in business to make money -- do you start to grow up and face the music."
 But he went to Germany, not Detroit. He worked at Volkswagen and its Audi division for much of the 1980's and 90's and was named Audi's top designer in 1993; he also worked for a time at BMW. 
 As Ford's design chief, Mr. Mays oversees a staff of more than 1,000 that is scattered around the world. As if the challenge of reviving the Ford brand were not enough, there is also the company's Mercury brand. Its sales have been lagging, and critics say it lacks a coherent identity. And there is the Lincoln brand, which has been criticized for looking flat-footed while G.M. has reinvented Cadillac with sharp-edged designs and by introducing Escalade S.U.V.'s. 
 Mr. Mays also oversees the designs of Ford's suite of foreign brands -- Volvo, Land Rover, Jaguar and Aston Martin -- whose fortunes are seen as crucial to the company's future. And the company has a large stake in Mazda as well. 
 His signature style, which he calls retrofuturism, spawned the new Beetle, and is distinctive enough to have been celebrated in a recent show at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. 
 But Mr. Mays's most appreciable impact at Ford has been in the satiny overhaul he has given to the interiors of the company's S.U.V.'s and trucks, especially to the lavishly redesigned F-Series pickup. This year, new products appear to be going in several directions, most prominently toward the conservative, chrome-accented styling that is prevalent in European cars. 
 The Ford Five Hundred, a sedan with a trunk large enough to store eight golf bags, is meant to give Ford a classy, luxurylike offering. The car could be called an Audi knockoff, but at least it comes from the source. "It's human nature that everybody wants what they can't have," Mr. Mays said. "Let's say you aspire to have a German luxury sedan, but you just don't have the cash to do it." With the Five Hundred, he said, "you can pull up in front of a very upscale restaurant or hotel in that vehicle and not feel the least bit embarrassed." 
 But can a Ford really win snob appeal? Bryon Fitzpatrick, chairman of the industrial design department at the College for Creative Studies in Detroit, a top car design program, said Mr. Mays "commands a lot of respect" and praised him especially for giving such a sophisticated overhaul to the interiors of Ford's trucks and S.U.V.'s. 
 But, he said, the Five Hundred may not be enough of a jump to lure back buyers who have given up on American cars. "The Ford Five Hundred is nothing really new," he said. "You wonder if they need to do something really different to have an impact." 
 He added: "You have to be careful that people don't point their finger and say that's an Audi rip-off. There are a lot of the same shapes and icons." 
 MORE aggressive, and fully in the retrofuturist vein, is the new Mustang. Its design, which sets it far apart from current Mustangs, has been praised by critics and enthusiasts.
 "The Mustang looks to be a good effort," said Mr. Csere at Car and Driver. "These are the first J Mays cars that are fully his," he said, but he called the Five Hundred "a relatively evolutionary design."
 "I think I'd like to see a little bit more boldness," Mr. Csere said. "He's very gifted but a little inhibited. He's unwilling to be bold with mass market."
 This year, at least, there will be cars to judge Mr. Mays on. 
 "He's the celebrity of the automotive design group in this country -- you could argue for Chris Bangle in Europe -- but his influence on the Ford product line has yet to be really seen in the high-volume Ford products," said Wes Brown, a partner at Iceology, an automotive consulting firm based in Los Angeles. "This is his first time, '04 and '05, where we will start to see the high-volume products where he has had influence and his finger has been in there from the beginning."
 Of the waiting game required of car designers, Mr. Mays said: "When I was at Audi, it took 14 years to turn that brand around. I would suggest to you that it's going to take a decade to fully go through and focus this brand to the extent that it needs to."
 "It's always a huge frustration," Mr. Mays added, "but this is a game that's measured in decades, not in years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 2005 Mustang GT reflects the signature style of J Mays, Ford's design chief. (Photo by John F. Martin for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Ford Freestyle, top, and Five Hundred are two models designed by J Mays that will go on sale in the fall. (pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (74%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO (F); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (TOYOY) 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



63 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 he New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Where to Go When the Easy Gains Are Gone

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
LAST year was great for stocks and good for bonds.
 Robert D. Arnott, manager of the $1 billion Pimco All Asset fund, is not pessimistic about the stock market's prospects this year. But he likes other types of assets better. 
 Last week, he talked about his views of 2004 and beyond. Following are excerpts from the conversation:

Q. The All Asset fund is up about 30 percent since its start 17 months ago. Where have you been making money?

A. We have had a bond tilt. Not a tilt toward mainstream Treasury and corporate bonds, but toward the Treasury's inflation-protection TIPS bonds, as well as emerging-market debt and high-yield junk bonds. And we have made some timely shifts in and out of stocks.
 When we started the fund, our equity position was under 5 percent of the portfolio. When stocks fell off a cliff in August and September of 2002, we went up north of 20 percent. Currently, our stock allocation is between 20 percent and 25 percent. But we are not allowed to go above 50 percent.

Q. Has the easy money been made in both the stock and bond markets?

A. Stocks have rallied very handily since a year ago in October. By the same token, emerging-market and high-yield bonds have similarly soared. So there are not as many easy decisions now as there were a year and a half ago. The low-hanging fruit has been picked, and we are left with a more spare roster of investment choices.

Q. What continues to attract your interest?

A. I have had a longstanding enthusiasm for the Treasury's inflation-indexed bonds. I also think emerging-market bonds look very promising, partly because they offer a material yield premium compared to developed-country debt of comparable maturity, and partly because these countries remain heavily dependent on commodity prices, which have been rising. The risk of default by these countries is much less now than it was three years ago.

Q. That sounds pretty defensive. Do you think the stock market is poised for a big drop in 2004?

A. I don't think the bull market we have been in is necessarily over, and I wouldn't be surprised if the stock market rallied further. But we are well over halfway to the top of this bull market.
 I think 2004 will probably be a reasonably benign year because the economy is going to be fine. The Federal Reserve and the Bush administration will do their best to hold everything together through the election and will continue to flood the economy with liquidity.

Q. Do you see the decline in the dollar as a risk to the fixed-income or equity markets?

A. I am less worried now about the dollar than I was a year ago. The plunge in the dollar relative tothe euro has brought it to sensible levels.

Q. What are your longer-run concerns?

A. I see four risks for equities over the next 10 to 20 years.
 The longest-horizon risk is demographics: baby boomers will be liquidating assets to pay for goods and services in retirement. 
 Valuation is a second risk. By any conventional metric, the market is not inexpensive: $100 invested in stocks today buys you $3 to $4 of earnings, or a P/E ratio of 25 to 30. That is not a lot, especially when you can get $5 of income from a government bond. 
 Third, the risk premium of stocks relative to bonds is a problem. Right now, stocks yield 1.5 percent, while inflation-protected TIPS yield 2.4 percent. Historically, stocks have had the advantage that dividends and earnings grow about 1 percent faster than inflation. That means that if stocks and TIPS have the same yield, which they don't, stocks should do a bit better than TIPS. 
 The last risk is the most immediate: the quality of corporate earnings is poor. 
 The average corporation is assuming an 8.5 percent to 9 percent return on its pension assets at a time when bond yields are around 5 percent and stock yields are around 1.5 percent. That is an unrealistic assumption. 
 The expensing of management stock options is probably coming, and that will not be free. To pretend they will cost nothing is flat wrong. 
 And, in general, accounting at most companies is aggressive. 
 Add all of those things up, and about 30 percent to 40 percent of today's earnings are fictitious. I think people are waking up to this.

Q. Are there any areas of the stock market that you like?

A. Stocks which have a good yield have been ignored, and look interesting. On a long-term, secular basis, drug stocks look interesting. Because of the yield, companies in the utility sector are interesting. And companies in basic industries are still interesting. That said, I would underweight equities broadly. I think a somewhat cautious posture, with broader portfolio diversification than normal, makes sense.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arnott 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



64 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH -- Mitchell Rubin; 
Baron iOpportunity Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
THE $113 million Baron iOpportunity fund is filled with companies poised to benefit from advances in information technology or the Internet, but Mitchell Rubin, the fund's manager, said he seeks diversity among its holdings.
 The fund owns very few classic technology companies, like computer hardware and software businesses. But it does own shares of retailers that adopt new technology to improve their operations and cable companies that provide high-speed Internet access. 
 Generally, in the portfolio's holdings, "technology is the primary driver of the company's future value," he said. 
 Mr. Rubin is seeking strong growth, stocks with the possibility of 50 percent price appreciation in two years and 100 percent in five years.
 The fund returned 5.9 percent a year, on average, for the three years through 2003, compared with average annual losses of 7.7 percent for its peer group of midcap growth funds and 4.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc.
 In 2003, the fund had a total return of 73.8 percent, compared with 36.1 percent for its group and 28.3 percent for the S.&P. 500.
 Mr. Rubin, 37, is vice president of Bamco, the funds' adviser, which manages more than $7 billion for institutions and individuals. Bamco is a subsidiary of the Baron Capital Group.
 In late April, Baron Capital Inc.,another unit of the Baron Capital Group, settled charges of stock price manipulation with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The S.E.C. alleged that in October 1999, Baron Capital used end-of-day trades to influence closing stock prices, which in turn affected the terms of a merger between Southern Union and Pennsylvania Enterprises. 
 Neither Baron iOpportunity nor Mr. Rubin were involved in the case.
 Mr. Rubin works with two analysts to pick the fund's approximately 50 stocks from among 200 to 300 technology-driven American growth companies of all sizes.
 They closely follow companies that they believe are leaders in what Mr. Rubin calls "the leading industries of the future." Those include advertising, business services, cable, media and financial services.
 When they visit a company, Mr. Rubin said, they try to determine its future value based on its competitive position, technology, shifts in consumer behavior and regulatory changes.
 The fund aims to buy shares when prices are temporarily low because of economic downturns, analysts' downgrades or short-term earnings misses.
 Mr. Rubin reviews a company's financial statements, looking for strong returns on capital and expanding profit margins over the last four to six quarters. He prefers companies with strong cash flow, which he defines as operating cash flow minus maintenance and capital expenses. Excess cash, he said, allows management to maintain its business during tough economic times, make acquisitions and repurchase shares.
 He sells shares when he no longer believes they can meet his price appreciation targets or when a company's competitive position or business operations start to deteriorate.
 Mr. Rubin began building the fund's stake in Getty Images in October 2001. Getty, based in Seattle, is a worldwide provider of photographs and moving images. 
 "Usage of imagery is a growth business" among publishers, advertisers and marketers, Mr. Rubin said.
 Now that the company has completed a capital program to acquire libraries of photographs and video clips and digitize the images, he added, it should generate better revenue growth and substantial free cash flow, especially as the economy picks up. 
 The shares cost an average of $16.38; they now trade at $50.19. 
 He began buying shares of Electronic Arts, the video game maker based in Redwood City, Calif., when prices fell shortly after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Shares sold for above $30 in mid-2001, adjusted for a stock split. The cost of the fund's position has averaged $27; the stock now trades at $47.63. 
 "Music, home entertainment and consumer technology are all converging in the video game industry," Mr. Rubin said. 
 Online financial services, including brokerage, banking and mortgage businesses, will continue to grow as the generations comfortable with computers mature into heavier users of financial services, Mr. Rubin said. One favorite is the E*Trade Group, the online broker.
 The company has strong banking and mortgage lending businesses, offering diversification and the opportunity to cross-sell services, he said. Its share price fell from more than $60 in 1999 to about $3 by mid-2002, partly because the Internet bubble burst and partly because of poor expense control and a controversy over the compensation of the former chairman and chief executive, Christos M. Cotsakos, Mr. Rubin said. Under fire from investors, Mr. Cotsakos gave back part of an $80 million compensation package in 2002. 
 New management, led by Mitchell H. Caplan, has restructured operations and improved the company's financial reporting, Mr. Rubin said.
 The fund began buying shares in E*Trade last March, paying $5.38, on average. On Friday, they closed at $12.81.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In choosing stocks, the fund manager Mitchell Rubin says he looks for companies in which technology is "the primary driver" of future value. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) Chart: "Baron iOpportunity"Category: Midcap growthNet assets: $113 millionInception: February 2000Manager: Mitchell Rubin since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,000Portfolio turnover: 96%3-year annualized return through 2003: +5.9%Category average: -7.7%Sector breakdownFinancial services: 11%Media: 8%Education: 10%Consumer services: 9%Business services: 8%Other: 54%FeesFront-end load -- NoneDeferred load -- None12b-1 fee -- 0.25%Expense ratio -- 1.50% (Sources by Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CASH FLOW (87%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MERGERS (76%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RETAILERS (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (60%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); BARON CAPITAL GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



65 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Taking the Market's Pulse With the P/E Ratio

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE Leuthold Group keeps a close watch on price-to-earnings ratios. The rise of those ratios in June 1998 made Leuthold, a valuation-oriented money manager, turn bearish long before the stock market bubble burst in 2000.
 So it may be a little disturbing to some investors that Andrew Engel, senior research analyst at Leuthold, says the stock market was overvalued by 22.9 percent at the end of 2003, using the P/E ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. That ratio was 23.1 at year-end, compared with a median of 17.8, based on data back to 1950. 
 But don't worry yet -- at least about valuations. From Mr. Engel's point of view, it is more important that the price-to-earnings ratio is still much less than the peak overvaluation of 49.3 percent, reached in July 1999, when the ratio was 35.1. And it is also well below the overvaluation of 40.3 percent, in June 1998, when the ratio was 29.8 and the firm went negative on the market. At that time, Leuthold, which is based in Minneapolis, reduced its stock holdings to 5 percent of its portfolio, which is now about $350 million.
 Right now, the firm remains fundamentally bullish, with 60 percent of its portfolio in stocks, although that number has been reduced from 66 percent, Mr. Engel said. "We are a little bit more cautious" because of the rising P/E ratio, he said. But, he added, this is a "momentum type of market where strong performance begets strong performance, and that is enough to overcome the valuations."
 He also said growth in corporate earnings this year could "prolong the advance." 
 Leuthold is projecting that operating earnings for the S.&P. 500 will rise about 20 percent this year, well above Wall Street analysts' consensus projection of 12.8 percent, compiled by Thomson First Call. 
 Another reason that the climb in the P/E may not be too troublesome is that inflation remains very low. The Consumer Price Index was up just 1.8 percent in the 12 months through November.
 Abby Joseph Cohen, the chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman Sachs, argues that it is reasonable for P/E ratios to be higher in periods of low inflation. Her data show that the average ratio for the S.&P. 500 since 1950 has been 18.4 when inflation is 2.5 percent or lower. The average falls to 12.1 when inflation is 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent, and declines to 8.6 when inflation is more than 7.5 percent. 
 But that does not mean the market is out of the woods.
 In fact, Mr. Engel said that he expects stocks to fall sharply at some time during the year. He is predicting a 10 percent to 15 percent correction, which, he said, "would be enough to reset the valuations."
 So if valuations won't stop the market, what will?
 He said investors were likely to be scared by rising inflation later in the year, although a modest increase would still leave inflation very low. For the 12 months through November, the core Consumer Price Index, which excludes food and energy, was up just 1.1 percent, the lowest gain since the period ended in January 1966.
 "We think there will be an inflation issue in the market," he said, adding that the Federal Reserve's decision to keep interest rates low for a considerable period might make some investors worry more about an inflation surge.
 INFLATION could also be aggravated by a sharp fall in the dollar. The dollar dropped 16.5 percent against the euro last year and could keep falling this year, raising prices for imports. 
 Mr. Engel also says that the presidential election "will bring about some focus on the negatives" -- like the federal budget deficit, which could reach $500 billion, as well as the dollar's weakness.
 There is a positive in all this for investors. In the past, the Leuthold Group was among those who became stock market bears early. So if its managers are not even contemplating turning from bulls to bears now, the market may well have a rally ahead.
 Mr. Engel projects that the S.&P. 500 will be just above 1,200 by the end of this year, even with a sell-off during the year. That is a gain of nearly 10 percent. Not bad.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "On the Rebound"The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index surged in 2003 after three years of declines. S. & P. 500 INDEX TOTAL RETURNIncludes dividend reinvestment Graph tracks returns since 1998. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



66 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2530 words

HEADLINE: The Retro City 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JOHNS; Michael Johns, who lives in San Francisco, is the author of "Moment of Grace: The American City in the 1950's" (University of California Press).

 BODY:
WHAT'S new in cities today isn't really new. Everything in our urban revival, from architectural styles and ornamentation to the very idea of neighborhood living itself -- all of it is self-consciously and unapologetically derived from the past. 
 But now something stranger and even more disheartening to the lover of city life is becoming clear: the new in cities not only isn't new, it isn't very urban. Although we've resurrected the forms of our cities, we've animated them with a culture straight from the suburbs. 
 Today's cities copy those of 50 or more years ago because the 1950's was the last time cities had busy downtowns and strong neighborhoods. Their buildings were made almost entirely of brick, stone, wood and terra cotta. Factory, rail and waterfront districts still produced and moved goods. City residents displayed a certain sophistication, as movies of that era remind us. And cities played a dominant role -- economic, cultural and political -- in the life of the nation. All that came to an end in the late 50's, when cities fell into a long period of physical and cultural decay. 
American cities will never again be as vital as they were during the first half of the 20th century. That is why cities are prime objects of nostalgia in our very nostalgic age. And what better way to modernize the objects of our nostalgia than by recreating old cities to attract large numbers of young professionals? Cities suffered for decades, after all, and lost middle- and upper-class residents. Renewal projects failed to improve them. They are shrinking parts of an expanding and increasingly dominant suburban society. And a growing number of affluent people now find suburbs boring or homogeneous. No wonder cities seem fresh, even exotic, and thus ripe for a nostalgic comeback.
 I first noticed this comeback 15 years ago while living in Park Slope, Brooklyn. Since then I've made yearly trips to New York and watched those early and scattered examples of retro urbanism multiply and coalesce into what is now the city's dominant style. 
Visit Chicago and San Francisco, even Denver, Oakland and Baltimore, and you'll see that they too are trying to rejuvenate themselves by recreating the look of the urban past. But because New York is so big, and perhaps because it was so clearly at its peak around 1950, its retro comeback seems especially conspicuous.
 This comeback can be impressive. Shoppers go downtown again. Local retail streets are lively. New skyscrapers look better than those built 20, 30 or 40 years ago. Industrial districts that were once decrepit and dangerous are now home to people with money to spend. For the first time in half a century, cities are in vogue.
 They've become fashionable by adopting the fashions of earlier times. Skyscrapers built between the late 80's and the late 90's feature cornices, balconies and Art Nouveau lamps. In the last few years we've seen eclectic versions of glass curtain walls. A neo-ziggurat structure housing the Austrian Cultural Forum just went up on 52nd Street near Fifth Avenue.
 Sometimes the past is built right into the present. In downtown Chicago, 4,000 stone panels were saved from an Art Deco skyscraper to clad its replacement, while in Manhattan the Ford Center for the Performing Arts replaced the Lyric and Apollo theaters but kept the Lyric's 43rd Street facade and the Apollo's 42nd Street lobby.
 City planners try to reinstate the past on a larger scale. The Redevelopment Agency of San Jose, Calif., claims to be fashioning its entire "downtown program after the San Jose of 1900-1950." Chicago completed what The Tribune calls a "turn-back-the-clock, retro remake" of its major downtown shopping street. 
 Cities everywhere restore dilapidated facades and store fronts. They renovate train stations and ferry terminals. They design subway stops to look old: Astor Place station, for example, is made of cast iron, and a new kiosk on Broadway and 72nd Street looks as if it's from the 30's. They lay old-style paving blocks, too, near Wall Street in Manhattan and in downtown San Francisco. Cities are especially fond of old-fashioned streetlamps like the retro bishop crooks -- so named because they look like a bishop's hooked staff -- that now illuminate parts of Lower Manhattan.
 San Francisco has even returned vintage trolleys to Market Street, with a sign on each car telling where it last served: 50's Boston, 40's Kansas City, 30's Philadelphia. It doesn't matter that those trolleys never ran in San Francisco. The goal is to make downtown look old, not to reproduce it accurately.
 Wholesaling and manufacturing districts are similarly prized for their historical charm. Cities like to turn such districts into residential and office zones where, according to one planning agency, "historic structures have been preserved, providing glimpses into the area's past."
 To that end, old factories and warehouses are restored and converted to other uses, while new buildings allude to the industrial past. They do this by using architectural motifs such as glass bricks, exposed I-beams, sheet-metal facades, galvanized steel railings and, in the case of a new loft building at Hudson and Houston Streets, "bold, horizontal bands of multipane windows that," according to a critic, "create an industrial scene."
 RETRO skyscrapers, remodeled downtowns, old-fashioned baseball parks, new loft buildings that mimic old factories -- all belong to an architectural school whose philosophy seems to be that copying something good beats inventing something bad. But if architects once used historical motifs to grace new architectural forms or express the sentiment of their times, as Cass Gilbert used Gothic to make the Woolworth Building into a modern cathedral of commerce, they now borrow older styles merely to conjure up an abstract sense of "history."
 The result is an architectural plagiarism that's eclectic and imprecise, a hodgepodge of form and decoration that typically remains at the level of mere gesture: it lacks detail and seems to be saying, "Here is a symbol of a cornice" or "This is meant to indicate the setback style." 
 The few buildings that try to copy an older style exactly or mimic a neighbor precisely do so with modern materials. Instead of terra cotta, they use hard foam. Panels of brick substitute for brick walls. Deco-like lamps are made of flimsy sheet metal. Otherwise faithful copies thereby betray themselves for what they are. Even renovators of landmark properties in New York can get permission from the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission to use synthetic slate instead of real slate, baked aluminum for oxidized copper and fiberglass in place of terra cotta.
 It may be strange to plagiarize old architecture, but it's stranger still to try to reproduce what one condo developer calls the art of city living. By this he means the urbanity we associate with American cities from the 20's to the 50's. He's selling a strong sense of neighborhood community, a short walk between your residence and a retail street, and the old-fashioned rapport between shoppers and shopkeepers.
 He's also thinking of things like a neon martini glass hanging outside a chic club, a remodeled lounge in a boutique hotel that advertises itself as "a genuinely retro bar," and a "supper club" that, according to a San Francisco magazine, promises to "transport us to a time past when food, drink, and music was all enjoyed under one roof in a dimly lit, lounge-like atmosphere."
 The self-conscious "art of city living" is what you find in gentrified neighborhoods and converted industrial districts. In keeping with the retro style, these areas preserve old things and make new things look old. Gentrifiers restore brick and stone, hang carriage lamps, refinish wood, and install new kitchens and bathroomswhile retaining original molding, light fixtures and door knobs.
 The ideal loft district or gentrified neighborhood centers on a pedestrian retail street that looks something like an old-time shopping avenue. Residents say they like small stores. So shopkeepers hang a sign that proclaims the traditional nature of the store and informs you, in an attempt to suggest tradition, when the store was "established." 
 A typical street has the retro bar and perhaps a new restaurant with an Art Nouveau interior. It probably has a version of E.J.'s Luncheonette, which the Zagat guide describes as "faux 50's." It will certainly have at least one eclectic club or lunch place that combines old wooden booths, new Deco-like lamps, and the inevitable film noir posters. 
 The bathroom door in one such place (in San Francisco) has a mail slot. Originally it might have been a door to an apartment building, or maybe it was just made to look as if it was; who can tell? Historical veracity, as is so often the case in the current revival, is not only ambiguous, it's unimportant.
 Ads for new lofts and newspaper articles about converted warehouses play up the "tradition" and "authenticity" of their "historic" districts. Loft residents clearly appreciate that history -- but precisely as history: they like to see remnant rail spurs or, even better, the remains of an elevated freight rail like the one that runs through Manhattan's once grungy but now fashionable meatpacking district. They also like to see fading but legible names of old wholesalers still painted on the sides of their buildings. 
 If there aren't any old advertisements, developers now paint them on so they look old -- Phipps's Cutlery or Maggione's Dry Goods. It's a rather audacious bit of nostalgic overkill, but as with the mail slot in the bathroom door and the Philadelphia streetcar in San Francisco, whether it's real or not has become irrelevant.
 DESPITE all these retro forms, the culture of loft districts and gentrified neighborhoods resembles that of a suburban subdivision much more than an old city block. Newcomers to such areas want the look of the old city but the peace and quiet, and purely residential character, of a suburb. So they immediately encourage local officials to squelch the sounds, smells and movements of any manufacturers or wholesalers still in the neighborhood. 
 Sometimes they're even willing to ruin historical architecture for the sake of a suburban convenience. Think of the metal balconies that developers tack onto converted warehouses so residents can partake in the suburban pastime of grilling. Backyard grilling may well be the greatest invention of our suburban culture, but is it worth defacing beautiful brick facades for grilled salmon?
 What lies behind all this residential development, of course, is the idea of "the neighborhood." A New York real estate broker described gentrifying blocks above 96th Street along Broadway as "just so 'neighborhood."' Hundreds of newspaper and magazine articles depict an "old neighborhood feeling" in gentrifying districts everywhere. Or they discover, as one recently did in the area around Madison Square Park, "a sense of community and shopkeepers who provide old-fashioned courtesies." 
 Merchants sometimes fly pennants on renovated retail streets to announce the neighborhood's name. Whether they've resurrected the old name or invented a new one like NoLIta, it's a self-conscious attempt to create a sense of neighborhood identity, something old neighborhoods never did.
 But today's neighborhood is different from the older one that's supposed to inspire it. For one thing, gentrifiers and loft-dwellers live much less of their lives in their neighborhoods than those who lived there 50 years ago. Today, few mothers and children are around during the day. Many of those children go to schools outside their neighborhoods and, like their parents, tend to have most of their friends and most of their activities in other parts of the city.
 Like a postwar subdivision, today's retro neighborhoods lack ethnic clubs, nearby in-laws or grandparents, and merchants who have watched a generation of youngsters grow up. They lack the culture that once provided city neighborhoods with a sense of continuity and identity, and forced people to develop ties over time, across generations, even across ethnic differences.
 Loft districts and gentrified neighborhoods have been transformed so quickly, and by such similar kinds of people, that they are often as homogeneous, with respect to age, race, income and education, as a 50's suburb. Gentrifiers acknowledge this lack of diversity, and it's a painful admission because "diversity," after all, is what they say they like about the city.
 A few will even tell you, as one told The San Francisco Chronicle, that they wish their neighborhoods had kept some of their "working-class charm." The phrase is telling, as if this charm were just another feature of the real estate, like water towers or exposed brick work, that might be preserved for the benefit of yuppies and their property values.
 FOR real diversity in these neighborhoods, you have to look to the dogs. These neighborhoods tend to have more types of dogs than classes of people. It's true that people have always had dogs in cities. But the explosion in the number of dogs, the rise in the number of big dogs, the conviction of many owners that their dogs are entitled to "off-leash experiences" in city parks -- all that expresses the suburban ideal of a dog in the yard.
 The car in itself is not suburban. But it is suburban to expect your very own parking space in the city. Such an expectation means new and converted residential buildings must include a built-in parking space for each apartment, a requirement that turns the first floor or two of a building into a parking lot.
 Parking is so scarce in some gentrified neighborhoods that people regularly park on sidewalks. As a member of a San Francisco neighborhood council put it: "There is a substantial age and experience divide on this issue. Those people who see nothing wrong with it are younger and more recent residents of the neighborhood, who bring a suburban sensibility to the city."
 Bringing a suburban sensibility to the city: that's a good description of our urban revival. 
 It may be sad to see today's fashionable districts looking like 50's street scenes with the sleekest cars ever made replaced by S.U.V.'s, ethnic clubs taken over by retro bars, family pharmacies and hardware stores supplanted by national chains, children and parents who once sat on stoops displaced by dog-walking couples, and fedoras and New Look dresses traded in for sneakers, baseball caps and spandex running outfits. But perhaps the incongruity of suburban culture in city streets is simply the price you have to pay for preserving and re-creating the old forms of our cities.
And it's inevitable, anyway. Karl Marx said his times were about "the urbanization of the countryside." Cities were then starting to spread their machines, markets, money and modern culture across the land. By the 1950's, however, American cities were losing the vitality that had made them such forceful and creative places for nearly a century. American society today, Marx might say, is about "the suburbanization of everything" -- including our retro cities.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Two picture captions in this section last Sunday with an article about retro trends in architecture misidentified the streetlamps shown. The front-page photo showed straight-armed highway lights; the other photo showed modified cobra-head lights. Neither depicted a bishop crook.
 Another picture with the continuation of the article, captioned "Saatchi & Saatchi loft," was published in error; only a small part of the building was visible at the rear. 
 A caption with a photo of railings on the Hudson River misstated the location. It was near Christopher Street, not Chelsea Piers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: STONE STREET -- Making a return appearance, old-style paving blocks.; WORLDWIDE PLAZA -- New building, retro accents.; 72ND STREET SUBWAY KIOSK -- Recalling the look of the 30's.; RIVERFRONT WALKWAY NEAR CHELSEA PIERS -- Railings with romantic curves.; SAATCHI & SAATCHI LOFT -- Design that evokes "an industrial scene."; E.J.'s LUNCHEONETTE -- Trying to achieve a "faux 50's" feel.; NINTH AVENUE AT WEST 35TH STREET -- Water towers, ornate detailing and the inevitable bishop-crook lamps. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 10) Drawing: BLASTS FROM THE PAST -- Bishop-crook streetlamps light up the sky over Hudson River Park along West Street. (Illustration by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); SUBURBS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



67 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Fund Scandal: A 60's Flashback

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
A BIG offshore investment fund, beyond the easy reach of United States regulators, starts pumping huge amounts of cash into American mutual funds. Fund managers are accused of catering to this powerful investor at the expense of ordinary shareholders. Regulators scramble to attack the problem.
 That, of course, is the outline of the drama that opened in September 2003, when Canary Capital Partners, an unregulated offshore hedge fund, was accused of using its financial muscle to get "market timing" privileges from fund managers that were not available to small investors. But an almost identical scandal swept the fund business in the mid-1960's - except that, back then, the role of the hedge fund was played by an impish scoundrel named Bernie Cornfeld. Those concerned about the current scandal may find his saga instructive. 
 Mr. Cornfeld, who had frequent run-ins with regulators before his death in 1995, was best known for creating the first "fund of funds," a superfund that invested only in other mutual funds. By 1964, that unregistered offshore fund was plowing hundreds of millions of dollars into domestic mutual funds. That made Bernie - no one called him "Mr. Cornfeld" with a straight face - the most powerful, and worrisome, investor in the mutual fund world.
 The smell of hot money was Bernie's eau de Cologne, and unregulated offshore status suited him best. Federal law barred any regulated fund from owning more than 3 percent of any other fund, but by operating offshore, Bernie was exempt from that limit. By 1965, his fund of funds owned half of one popular mutual fund, and almost 30 percent of another. It had big stakes in a fund run by Sir John Templeton, in the Wellington fund and in several Fidelity funds. That gave Bernie much more power over American mutual funds than regulators said he, or anyone, should have.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission's solution, in a report to Congress in May 1967, was a proposal to prohibit the fund-of-funds concept entirely and to bar any fund, offshore or not, from investing in other American funds. 
 Bernie had left the American market to settle S.E.C. charges, but regulators still had good - indeed, prescient - reasons to seek permanent change. They worried about any single big investor exerting "undue influence" over the fund managers. And they fretted that mutual funds would have to hold such large amounts of cash to accommodate such investors that returns for other shareholders would suffer. These concerns, of course, mirror the issues raised by "market timing" hedge funds today. 
 IN 1969, after Senator John J. Sparkman intervened to "grandfather in" a small existing fund called First Multifund of America, the S.E.C. was forced to backpedal. While insisting that it still opposed the whole idea of a "fund of funds," it ultimately agreed to Congressional amendments allowing unregulated funds to buy up to 3 percent of a regulated fund -- a limit that did not deter today's market-timing abuses at all. 
 Since then, even those weaker Cornfeld-inspired protections have eroded. The ban on the fund-of-funds concept has been lifted. And along the way, the very idea of building a fence to protect mom and pop's mutual funds from hedge funds and other Bernie-style investors was largely forgotten. 
 Should that fence be built today? Some former regulators say that the notion is worth considering. The mutual fund is "fundamentally a retail product for the middle-income, average investor," said Richard C. Breeden, a former chairman of the S.E.C. When hedge funds aim their cash in fire-hose fashion at the same funds that cater to smaller investors, "it puts a lot of pressure on the system," he said. And building a fence would be preferable to the often-discussed notion of regulating hedge funds, said Kathryn B. McGrath, a lawyer and former federal fund regulator.
 But, curiously, whether hedge funds and other institutional pools of unregulated cash should continue to have access to the mutual funds that cater to retail investors of modest means is not one of the questions that either regulators or lawmakers are asking in response to today's scandal. Somewhere, surely, Bernie Cornfeld is smiling.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernie Cornfeld 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); SCANDALS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); TRENDS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



68 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life: The Boss; 
APay-as-He-Went Start

BYLINE:  By Robert Greifeld; As told by Jennifer Bayot

 BODY:
JACK KEROUAC was my favorite writer -- not just for "On the Road" but for some of his other work, too. So I was certainly fond of the Beats when I was growing up, and I remember seeing Allen Ginsberg read poetry in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. That was a highlight for me.
 I think I was your classic American teenager without a care in the world. Then I realized that college was looming, and that I needed to pay my way there. 
 I ran track but quit to work at a Waldbaum's grocery store. I was a very good dairy clerk. You had to make sure you rotated the merchandise so customers were buying the oldest, not the newest. Otherwise you would be stuck with bad inventory. 
 We were running a split session at school, so I was able to work a full shift, from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. Then I would do my homework and go back to school the next morning. My dad had a second job, running a landscaping business, and I helped out with that. And then I did security guard work -- the midnight shift. 
 During senior year of high school I worked a 40-hour schedule. I paid my tuition at Iona College with a combination of the money I saved and scholarships. And during the summers, I always worked two jobs. 
 In college, I was on a work-study program based at an all-girls school, the College of New Rochelle, on the other side of town. It was tough: 600 girls who didn't see any guys all day except for the 7 of us who worked in the cafeteria. Plus, I got free meals. 
 When I graduated, I worked at Burroughs, now Unisys, and my salary was 13 grand a year, and that was O.K. At that point, my wife (then girlfriend) and I were fairly serious, and I wanted to get her an engagement ring. So I took a job at FedEx delivering packages on Saturday. I actually made more an hour working at FedEx than I did at Burroughs. 
 It was also the first time I saw how truly rich people lived. I remember delivering to George C. Scott, Jim McKay, Tom Seaver and even Paul Newman. I was 22 years old, driving up to these mansions. 
 Every time I took part-time jobs, it was for economic necessity. I didn't have a long-range plan. It was about earning the paycheck for the next day. Even with my full-time jobs, I never thought two steps ahead with respect to career management. 
 If you try to come up with a plan, it's never going to develop the way you think. You need to focus on what you need to do that day and make sure that you like what you're doing.
 My son, who is 14, just got a job. He works at an Army-Navy athletic store. He's selling shoes. I call him Al -- you know, for Al Bundy. 
 As soon as he could get working papers, he started looking for that job. If anything, he got discouragement from his parents. We said: "Hey, you know, you don't have to do this. Just focus on your schoolwork."
 But he really wanted to get work. He certainly has a strong work ethic. It really gives me a lot of pleasure to see that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ROBERT GREIFELD -- President and chief executive of Nasdaq (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); POETRY (73%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (62%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (52%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ STOCK MARKET 

PERSON: ROBERT GREIFELD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



69 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
For Boomers NearRetirement, Toolboxes Aplenty

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH HARRIS

 BODY:
INVESTMENT companies are perfecting a new pitch for baby boomers: Let us help you through retirement. 
 Fidelity Investments, Charles Schwab, Merrill Lynch and others have stepped up their marketing to retirees and, increasingly, to people who have just begun to think about retirement. Many companies are offering more advice and have introduced sophisticated online financial calculators intended to help investors solve the often confusing problems involved in building a nest egg and then safely consuming it. Fidelity and Merrill Lynch are even planning cash management accounts for retirees that will pull in income not only from investments at the brokerage firms, but also from monthly Social Security and pension payments. 
 Some of these efforts have not been universally welcomed. "Social Security is an entitlement program, but I don't know if it's an entitlement program for the brokerage firms," said Ross Levin, a certified financial planner and president of Accredited Investors, based in Edina, Minn. 
 And Sue Stevens, director of financial planning at Morningstar Inc., warns investors to take financial advice with a dose of skepticism. Asset management companies are using "marketing tactics to attract that group and hopefully better serve it, but you can't forget why they're doing it," Ms. Stevens said. She recommends that investors ask for a detailed breakdown of the cost of any financial advice, and to check the credentials of potential advisers. 
 Behind the marketing campaigns are substantial demographic shifts. Individuals in 13.8 million households are expected to retire over the next 10 years, according to a study conducted in 2002 and published in 2003 by SRI Consulting Business Intelligence, an employee-owned spin-off of the former Stanford Research Institute, based in Menlo Park, Calif. Those households have $4.4 trillion in assets, or about a quarter of all financial assets in the country, according to SRI's research. Current retirees under the age of 70 hold $3.3 trillion in wealth, excluding their homes, the firm said.
 These assets represent an attractive prize for financial services companies, Mr. Levin said.
 Financial planners report much confusion about retirement finances among many working people. Some concerns are longstanding -- for example, how to convert assets into enough income to cover lifetime expenses. 
 For baby boomers, however, there are some new concerns. Relatively few boomers have company pensions to supplement savings and Social Security income. That means a bigger role for their 401(k) investments, and adds to the importance of their choices about drawing down those accounts. Meanwhile, increasing health care costs, longer life expectancies and some lingering unrealistic expectations about investment returns make it difficult for some investors to get these complex retirement decisions right.
 SOME retirees, like Taylor and Patricia Larimore of Miami, have figured out how to pull income out of their savings on their own. Mr. Larimore retired in June 1982 as chief of the financing division for the federal Small Business Administration, focused on southern Florida. Ms. Larimore recently took a part-time job as executive director of a South Miami real estate office. In addition to income from that job, Social Security and Mr. Larimore's pension, the Larimores have been withdrawing money from investments in diversified Vanguard mutual funds and from an annuity.
 "Our immediate concern upon retiring was, how much can we withdraw annually from our investment portfolio without running out of money?" Mr. Larimore, 79, said. "Fortunately, I spent most of my life in finance, so I knew the danger of drawing more than 4 percent or 5 percent from a portfolio during early retirement."
 Some investors, like Tim A. Maloney, 52, are looking for more help. Mr. Maloney ran several retirement possibilities through Fidelity's online Retirement Income Planner, which Fidelity began offering free to customers in October. 
 Mr. Maloney, a customer network engineer at Verizon who designs fiber optic transport networks, was considering an early-retirement package. But with the help of the planner, on Fidelity's Web site, www.fidelity.com/retire, he found a low probability that his portfolio would sustain his and his wife's expenses after he stopped working. He has decided to keep his job for an additional 10 years and to lower the amount he will eventually withdraw annually from his portfolio to 4 percent from 11 percent.
 "The bear market just blew me away," Mr. Maloney said. "I had to rethink everything, and I hate thinking 4 percent because 4 percent is a lot less than 11 percent, but in reality that's what I should be thinking."
 Many investors still have inflated ideas of how much they can withdraw from their assets annually in retirement, said Christine Fahlund, a senior financial planner at T. Rowe Price. "It'll be a long time before people figure out that withdrawing 8 percent won't work," she said. 
 T. Rowe Price began offering its Retirement Income Calculator on its Web site, at www3.troweprice.com/ric/RIC, in 2000. It was among the first widely available tools to look beyond investors' desired retirement dates and assess the probability that they would reach monthly income goals. Investors provide information online, including age at retirement, projected length of retirement, assets, desired monthly income and investment mix. The calculator relies on mathematical techniques known as Monte Carlo simulations, running hundreds of possible investment returns to check the likelihood that an investor's plan will succeed. 
 T. Rowe Price research shows that withdrawing too much from a portfolio annually in the early years of retirement will probably deplete it before the investor dies, Ms. Fahlund said. Withdrawals of between 4 and 5 percent are recommended for most people, she said. 
 Fidelity's new online tool is also intended to help investors figure out how to tap retirement assets while preserving as much income as possible. 
 "The baby boomers are retiring, and just like everything the baby boomers have done or needed, it has determined very sharp trends and sharp needs," said Cynthia Egan, executive vice president of Fidelity's Retirement Income Services. "As they begin to shift from accumulating for retirement to actually living in retirement, it will requirea great deal of thought as well as a great deal of education." 
 Fidelity will add retirement services over the next few months, including the cash management account, which will be available in the spring, Ms. Egan said. The company has not determined if there will be fees for some of these services. 
 Merrill Lynch is also expanding its retirement programs, including a service that will gather income from an investor's different funds and deposit it in a Merrill account. The firm will pair this feature with more retirement advice. A pilot program has started at Merrill's offices in Washington, D.C.; it will be offered nationally in the second half of this year, but the possible costs have not been determined, said Jim McCarthy, first vice president for retirement and education solutions at Merrill Lynch. He said the service will appeal to investors, who are "seeking an orderly process for producing a dependable income."
 Other companies, like Vanguard, plan to mix advice, education and financial products like income annuities -- intended to help people draw income from their savings, said Robert Nestor, principal and leader of annuity and insurance services at Vanguard. 
 "Everyone's looking at the demographics and saying trouble is coming if we don't prepare people accordingly," he said of his industry's recent attention to retirement. 
 BEGINNING this year, Vanguard will provide more information and tools online to help people understand that they should assume they will live longer than the average life span, consider 4 percent withdrawal rates and prepare for the possibility of a down market. Poor returns in the first few years of retirement can be especially damaging, Mr. Nestor said. Some new tools will help investors check the probability of outliving their assets, and test the possible effects of changing their withdrawal rates or their investment allocations among stocks and bonds, Mr. Nestor said.
 Charles Schwab's retirement group intends to direct investors to advice through several channels -- its Web site, its phone and investor centers and the programs it offers in the workplace, said Trish Cox, vice president for education and advice at Charles Schwab Corporate Services. 
 This year, Ms. Cox said, Schwab will develop a series of income portfolios, with varying amounts of stocks, bonds and variable annuities. 
 "We're really trying to focus on that whole decumulation phase," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim A. Maloney, a Verizon engineer, has used Fidelity's retirement planner to help decide when to retire, and how much to spend. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times) Chart: "Timing Is Everything"A retirement account that has losses in the first few years of retirement will run out of money faster than one with the same losses in later years. In this example, one retirement account has losses of 10 percent in the first two years and 5 percent in the third year. The other account has losses of 5, 10 and 10 percent in the last three years. Both accounts have annual returns of 7.5 percent in every year in which they do not have losses. In both, $25,000 is taken out in the first year, increasing by 3 percent each year to account for inflation. Graph tracks profits from early gains and early losses from one to thirty years after retirement. (Source by The Vanguard Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US 401K PLANS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BONDS (79%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); ACCREDITATION (68%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (91%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (91%); MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



70 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Hong Kong's Rebound Is Tied To China

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
WHEN SARS spread here last spring, employees at Lee Fung China Ware, a large store that sells porcelain, did not see a single overseas tourist for two months, and sales to local residents plunged.
 Business has mostly recovered this winter, but the store's base of customers has changed, perhaps permanently. The American and European tourists and businesspeople who previously snapped up figurines representing the Chinese zodiac signs have not yet returned in large numbers. They have been replaced, however, by Chinese customers, both Hong Kong residents and visitors from the mainland, who are now buying flower vases with feng shui designs in preparation for the Chinese New Year, said Lily Wong, a sales representative. 
 The store's sales mirror a broader shift in Hong Kong, and in East Asia generally, toward a greater reliance on the booming Chinese economy.
 Hong Kong's recovery has been especially significant. Forecasters predict that its economy will expand 4.5 percent in 2004 after shrinking sharply last spring during the SARS outbreak. The stock market rose 35 percent in 2003, after three losing years.
 So much money has poured into the territory that the Hong Kong Monetary Authority has been unable to drive the Hong Kong dollar back down to its peg of 7.8 to the American dollar, despite repeated interventions in the last three months. Asked if they thought 2004 would be a better year, economically speaking, than 2003, Hong Kong residents were more optimistic than people in any of the other 59 countries and territories where similar questions were posed, according to survey results released last week by Gallup and TNS, a market research firm.
 Of course, doing worse than last year would be quite a feat, given that Hong Kong had more cases of SARS per million residents than anywhere else in the world. The city depends on its roles as the trade and finance capital of China and the busiest transportation hub in Asia, both of which suffered during the two months when the World Health Organization discouraged travel here. And last year was Hong Kong's sixth consecutive year of declining prices, as the territory has suffered worse deflation than even Japan.
 As a huge demonstration on New Year's Day showed, many in Hong Kong also remain dissatisfied with their government and eager for the introduction of greater democracy. But several signs now suggest that Hong Kong's recovery has staying power, at least as long as the mainland economy continues to boom.
 Exports are strong, especially to Taiwan, Singapore and Thailand. Growth in exports to the United States has been weaker, but that is lessening a dangerous dependence on the American market.
 Re-exports of goods manufactured in mainland China, which dominate Hong Kong's trade, were 10 percent higher in November than in the month a year earlier. Exports of locally produced goods slipped 3 percent, but even that was a significant improvement after years of double-digit declines, said Paul Tang, the chief economist at the Bank of East Asia here.
 The modest decline suggests that after years of factories moving across the border to lower-wage cities on the mainland, the remaining factories may be staying in Hong Kong, where patents and other intellectual property are much more easily protected.
 Tourism, which produces low-wage jobs to replace some of those lost to the mainland, is expanding because of Beijing's decision to allow more visits here. The number of mainland tourists here in October was up 31 percent from a year earlier, even as the number of European tourists fell 11 percent and the number of American tourists dropped 15 percent.
 BEIJING regulators are also siding less with Shanghai's financial markets over Hong Kong's these days. Hu Jintao, China's president since March, has relied less on former Shanghai officials than did his predecessor, Jiang Zemin.
 Renewed confidence here has produced a surge in local consumption as well. Because of Hong Kong's wealth and high savings rate, "whenever sentiment recovers, the economy recovers very strongly," said Joan Zheng, an economist here for J.P. Morgan.
 A peculiarity of the renewed optimism is that the biggest source of unhappiness -- a decline of two-thirds in property prices since a bubble burst in 1997 -- has not really gone away. Prices dropped an additional 15 percent during the SARS outbreak last spring and summer, and rebounded last autumn only to the levels of last January.
 "We worked ourselves back to where we were pre-SARS, and people are happy," said Peter Woo, a businessman who is chairman of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council. "And before they were feeling bad."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Not So Stable"The Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar. Scale is inverted to show the increased value of the Hong Kong dollar. Graph tracks the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar from July 2003 to December 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); FUTURES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); DEFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; COMMODITIES AND FUTURES TRADING 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



71 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: For Haiti, 200 Years Of Mixed Results 

BYLINE:  By Robert Fatton Jr.; Robert Fatton Jr., professor of politics at the University of Virginia, is author of "Haiti's Predatory Republic."

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

 BODY:
On Thursday, Haiti celebrated its bicentennial, the fruit of what was arguably the most radical revolution of the 18th century. Determined that they would no longer put up with white supremacy, black slaves rose up and defeated Napoleon's army.
 The revolution symbolized the Haitian quest for liberty and solidarity, but the repressive despotism of colonialism and the violence of the struggle for emancipation left the country with a troubled legacy. Haiti inherited the wounds of racial and class enmity and confronted the hostility of slave-holding powers, including the United States. The country also had to face the material ruin that resulted from the bloody struggle for emancipation. 
 These conditions have shaped Haiti's history, which has been defined by long periods of authoritarianism interrupted by failed attempts at democracy. The paradox of the Haitian revolution is that it was fought in the name of liberty and equality and yet the country has experienced little of either.
The fall of the Duvalier dictatorship in 1986 and the unending transition to democracy that ensued have not changed this reality. In fact, under the current government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti is navigating between the Scylla of a paralyzing crisis and the Charybdis of putschism and chaos. Given the balance of forces both internally and externally, it is unlikely that the growing opposition to Mr. Aristide will displace him from power. While the president's challengers have been emboldened by their capacity to mobilize significant segments of the population against his rule, they have not succeeded in forcing his resignation. Mr. Aristide has shown that he can survive via a mixture of repressive and cajoling policies. He may have lost whatever legitimacy he had with the intellectual and business elites, but he has retained a hold on the very poor. 
Faced with the vicissitudes of the Iraqi occupation and an election year, it is unlikely that the Bush administration can stomach another attempt at nation building. For its part, the international community has shown little capacity to move Haiti's factions toward a workable compromise.
At the moment there seem to be only two options: an uneasy truce between President Aristide and the two main opposition coalitions, Democratic Convergence and Group 184, or a continued descent into hell. Such a compromise would require the organization of a transitional government and new elections in a climate free of fear and intimidation. The formation of a transitional government would hinge on Mr. Aristide's willingness to share power with a prime minister from the opposition and the readiness of his foes to accept his continued presidency. 
Yet the odds of this happening are long. The challengers have an interest in continuing the crisis because it erodes the president's legitimacy. For Mr. Aristide's party, Lavalas, a deal is likely to generate internecine struggles since many of its constituents will have to share power with adversaries. Moreover, Lavalas's dependence on armed thugs has caused fears about Mr. Aristide's ultimate reliability.
Still, a compromise is the only path toward stability. The international community, including the United States, should press for the immediate creation of a transitional government of national unity that will hold elections within a year of its formation -- and back that request with financial incentives. It should also provide logistical and financial assistance to disarm gangs, organize elections and set the economy on the road to recovery.
External forces cannot, however, resolve Haiti's problems. Haitians themselves have to find new means to extricate themselves from their own predicament. They did so after the collapse of the Duvalier family's dictatorship, when in the midst of a series of coups they created a popular movement giving birth to Lavalas. Lavalas's ultimate failure has shown the difficulties facing any radical restructuring of society, but it has provided lessons to a new generation of Haitians. The full awakening of this generation is the harbinger of hope, but 2004, the year of Haiti's bicentennial, is likely to offer only great uncertainties.

Maureen Dowd and Thomas L. Friedman are on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); HISTORY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



72 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Business People; 
Memo to Spouse: I Really Do Care

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS

 BODY:
Many consultants take time off during the holidays, but Jim Jenkins can't afford to.
 Last week, Mr. Jenkins, the president of Creative Visions Consulting, an executive coaching firm based in Frederick, Md., said he was "swamped" with calls from executives looking for help in carrying out their New Year's resolutions. 
 In recent years, Mr. Jenkins said, more and more high-powered businesspeople have resolved to spend more time with their families.
 "It's a recurring theme," he said. "They hang out with their family over Christmas or Hanukkah, and they realize, 'I should be spending more time with these people."'
 But for resolutions for 2004, Mr. Jenkins says he has been getting more calls from overworked executives who want to "reignite the flame" with their spouses. 
 "As many people have tried to achieve balance between work and children, they've forgotten about their relationships with their wives or husbands," he said.
 Mr. Jenkins recently coached one such executive, a vice president for communications at a major corporation, who said that his wife complained that he treated her like an employee. Mr. Jenkins suggested that the executive designate one night each week as "date night," and take his wife to a fancy dinner. By doing this, Mr. Jenkins suggested, the couple might relearn how to interact as husband and wife. 
 Is it working? Sort of. "I'm not sure that their romantic life has improved that much," Mr. Jenkinssaid.
 But, he added, the executive's wife says he has become "a lot less bossy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); HANUKKAH (73%) CHILDREN AND FAMILIES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FREDERICK, MD, USA (72%) MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



73 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Across Rural America, Drug Casts a Grim Shadow 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: LOVELL, Wyo. 

 BODY:
Tucked under the snowcapped wall of the Big Horn Mountains, with its cattle and horse ranches and large Mormon church, this could be "that sleepy little town everyone wants," said Nick Lewis, the police chief.
 Except for one thing. Lovell, population 2,264, and two nearby towns have become infested by methamphetamine. 
 In the past two years, about 70 people from this small slice of northwestern Wyoming have been convicted of buying or selling methamphetamine, with more arrests and convictions expected soon, the authorities say. Methamphetamine-related crimes now consume half the time of Chief Lewis's seven-officer force. 
Burglaries have mushroomed, one suspected witness's house was firebombed and the State Department of Family Services has taken children away from parents so incapacitated by methamphetamine that they forgot to feed them. Many people have simply quit work and ended up selling drugs to pay for methamphetamine, a powerful manufactured stimulant that produces bursts of energy and euphoria but can lead to depression, violent paranoia and brain damage. 
Methamphetamine is also draining precious money out of Lovell, which has already lost three of its four groceries, its Sears, its movie theater and two of its few factories.
What is happening in Lovell is happening across much of Wyoming, the least populated state in the country, where methamphetamine use is now more than twice the national average, according to the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
Methamphetamine use and crime are also overrunning rural counties in Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado, North Dakota and the Texas Panhandle, law enforcement officials say.
In Iowa, rapidly growing methamphetamine use is behind a surge in thefts of tractors and other heavy farm equipment, as well as burglaries in vacant farmsteads, said Todd Johnson, the Audubon County sheriff.
The methamphetamine trade has thrived in Audubon County for a number of reasons. Methamphetamine is easy to cook locally, Sheriff Johnson said, because his county of 450 square miles has only 10 law enforcement officers, and one of the drug's main ingredients -- anhydrous ammonia -- is an agricultural fertilizer that lies about in abundant supply in bags on isolated farm fields, almost waiting to be stolen.
Home-cooked methamphetamine is now so common in Iowa, and so toxic, that the Legislature has made manufacturing it around children a form of child abuse. In its first count, the Iowa Department of Human Services found almost 500 children who were exposed to cooking methamphetamine in 2002.
Similarly, in Colorado, police officers and firefighters in rural communities often scrub down young children who have been crawling on the floor in houses where their parents have been cooking methamphetamine, said Susan Dreisbach, a research anthropologist at the University of Colorado at Denver. 
In Nebraska, crime has increased fourfold since methamphetamine became a serious problem in the mid-1990's, as migrant workers brought in to work in the meatpacking plants began dealing the drug, said Glenn Kemp, the drug investigator for the Adams County Sheriff's office in central Nebraska. "We never had a big crime problem in Nebraska till meth," Mr. Kemp said. "But now we have a lot of stabbings and shootings in our little towns and every homicide goes back to meth."
Law enforcement officials in North Dakota tell a similar story.
"Meth is the single most serious law enforcement issue that North Dakota is facing, and has ever faced," said Wayne Stenehjem, the state attorney general. The number of methamphetamine labs seized in North Dakota jumped to 97 in 2002 from zero in 1998 and will be higher again when the 2003 numbers are tabulated, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. 
Tim Gillespie, the police chief in Emerado, N.D., a town of 500, said he had to draw his gun more last year alone than in his previous 20 years in law enforcement because of methamphetamine-related arrests in which suspects pulled weapons. 
To the experts, methamphetamine is both a symptom of rural decline, as people give up on faltering farms and factories, and a cause that makes the decline worse. In this dual role, methamphetamine acts much like crack did in big cities in the 1980's, said Mark Kleiman, a professor of public policy at the University of California at Los Angeles.
But on Main Street in Lovell, people do not talk about the ravages of methamphetamine.
"We lie to ourselves," said Pat Crank, Wyoming's attorney general. "We say Wyoming is God's country. We have that big sky, and those mountains. We can't have meth."
Becky Hultgren, a 43-year-old optical assistant in Lovell, knows the bitter truth. She still remembers the day her children came home from high school and said their classmates had told them, "Your aunt is the coolest person in town."
To Mrs. Hultgren, that was not a compliment. She said that her sister, Colet Dover, 41, was a methamphetamine addict who had been giving drugs to her teenage sons and selling it to other students. 
Ms. Dover had been fired from her job as a nurse for stealing painkillers. In early October, she was sentenced to seven years in federal prison as part of a joint federal, state and local investigation that has resulted in the dozens of convictions here. 
Statistics on drugs in rural areas are sketchy, because law enforcement is spread thin across these vast parts of the nation. But the available figures do tell a story. 
From 1995 to 2002, drug abuse arrests fell 23 percent in cities with a population of 250,000 or more, but rose 21 percent in rural counties, according to a study by James Alan Fox, a professor of criminal justice at Northeastern University, using F.B.I. data. Similarly, for youths 12 to 17, the highest level of drug abuse is in rural counties, according to a 2002 household survey done for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. 
There is also relatively little research on why methamphetamine has become the drug of choice in the rural West and why it is continuing to surge in popularity.
Bruce Mendelson, a researcher with the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division of the Colorado Department of Human Services, thinks part of the reason is that the wide open spaces in the West make it easier to set up underground labs to cook methamphetamine, a chemical stew. 
Methamphetamine is also cheaper than cocaine, Mr. Mendelson said, and its high lasts 8 to 16 hours, compared with a couple of hours for cocaine. "For people in rural areas, doing hard-working blue collar jobs in a bad economy trying to earn a few extra bucks, meth helps you stay up longer and work longer," he said.
Federal surveys have consistently shown that methamphetamine is largely a drug of whites, the less affluent, and those living in rural areas and west of the Mississippi, said Professor Kleiman of U.C.L.A.
Methamphetamine's appeal to the less affluent makes towns like Lovell particularly vulnerable, because of the profound demographic changes that Wyoming is undergoing. The state is growing older faster than any other state, said Jonathan Schecter, executive director of the Charture Institute in Jackson, Wyo.
"Basically, Wyoming is in a demographic death spiral," Mr. Schecter said. "For the first time, Wyoming now has more people 35 and older than there are 34 and younger."
As the number of school-age children has plummeted, four high schools from smaller towns around Lovell have been consolidated into one. And the decline is continuing. The number of students in the remaining high school in Lovell shrank to 160 this year from 194 in 1999.
The result of this change, Mr. Schecter said, is that people in their 20's and 30's left behind in places like Lovell tend to be less educated, often high school dropouts, and work at low-paying jobs or not at all.
Most of those convicted from the Lovell area fit this description, said Kurt Dobbs, the director of the Division of Criminal Investigation of the Wyoming Attorney General's office.
Another similarity between the methamphetamine problem in Lovell and in states like Nebraska and Colorado, law enforcement officials say, is that the dealers are often Mexican migrant workers, many of them illegal immigrants, who came to work for low wages on farms or in meatpacking plants or mines.
In Lovell, violent crime has not jumped with the advent of methamphetamine, as happened in many cities with crack. But property crime has skyrocketed, as addicts commit burglaries or break into cars.
Ms. Dover wrote bad checks, ran up the debt on her credit cards to $60,000 and spent a $90,000 settlement she received after her husband died in an industrial accident, said her sister, Mrs. Hultgren. Then there is the personal toll. Ms. Dover's two sons, now in their early 20's, have their own addiction problems to overcome, Mrs. Hultgren said.
Last year the sisters went back to the small town in southern Utah where they were born into a Mormon family for their grandmother's funeral. "Relatives kept asking me, where's Colet?" Mrs. Hultgren said.
"I said, 'This is Colet, right here,' " Mrs. Hultgren said. "But they couldn't recognize her; the drugs had aged her so much."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 4 about crimes involving methamphetamine drugs in rural areas referred incorrectly to the availability of anhydrous ammonia, a fertilizer often used in making the drug. It is sometimes found on farm fields in pressurized tanks, not bags.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nick Lewis, the police chief of Lovell, where methamphetamine-related crimes occupy half of the police force's time. Becky Hultgren, right, watches the house of her sister, Colet Dover, who is in prison.; Rob Bifano, a police officer in Lovell, Wyo., holds a light bulb used as a makeshift pipe for methamphetamine. In the past two years, about 70 people from the area have been convicted of buying or selling the drug. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) Map of Wyoming highlighting Lovell: In Wyoming, methamphetamine use is twice the national average.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METHAMPHETAMINE (94%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BURGLARY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CHILDREN (88%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (86%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%); RELIGION (78%); CRIME RATES (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); CHILD ABUSE (75%); FAMILY SERVICES (74%); FAMILY (74%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); COUNTIES (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%); FERTILIZERS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (63%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (52%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: SUBSTANCE ABUSE & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (96%); IOWA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



74 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Offer of Quake Aid Sparks Debate in Iran 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Iran's lukewarm response to overtures by the United States stemming from American assistance for the Bam earthquake victims fueled a widening debate on Saturday on the Islamic Republic's relations with its longtime adversary. 
 Hard-liners who have always viewed adverse relations with Washington as a pillar of the Islamic revolution are dismissing the American statements as just more "trickery from the Great Satan," while reformists fret aloud that Iran is about to miss yet another opportunity to end its international isolation. 
 Neither side appreciated President Bush's repeating of American demands on Iran in the same breath as his promise to amplify aid to quake victims, but the debate here appears likely to become an important issue in parliamentary elections just six weeks away. 
"I think it is a kind of missed opportunity for achieving a rapprochement in Iranian-U.S. relations," said Elaheh Koulai, a reformistmember of the foreign relations committee in Parliament. "I don't think this kind of rejection serves our interests." 
On Friday, Iran rejected an offer from Washington to send a delegation to assess the need for further assistance and to help with the distribution of relief supplies in Bam, where 30,000 people were killed and tens of thousands were left homeless in an earthquake on Dec. 26. Officials in Washington said Iran cited the difficult conditions in Bam as the reason for not accepting the delegation, although Tehran did not close the door to a future visit. 
Conservatives quickly condemned the American offer and attacked Iranian officials who welcomed it. Measures included dispatching 81 aid workers to Bam to staff a hospital and to survey the damage, as well as the temporary suspension of some economic sanctions to allow private donations to Iran. 
"If these officials favor resuming ties with the United States, they must not speak so eagerly, instead they should speak in a way to get advantages and force the other side to abandon its overpowering tone," said an editorial in Jomhouri Islami, a newspaper close to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
Analysts here believe the timing of the American offer probably led to its rejection. By late next week the Guardian Council is expected to announce the names of the thousands of Iranians allowed to run in parliamentary elections on Feb. 20. Reformists swept the elections four years ago, but conservatives were hoping to retake the body this year. 
In municipal elections last year, voters stayed home in droves as a kind of protest toward economic stagnation and lack of political change. Conservatives thus dominate most municipal councils. They expected to do the same with parliamentary elections and would like try to stave off anything that might change that plan, analysts believe. 
"I think it is too much of a sudden change for the conservatives to get themselves reorganized on such an issue," said Sadegh Zibakalam, a political scientist at Tehran University. If relations improved, it would mean abandoning a central tenet of the Islamic revolution, while if talks quickly fell apart, then voters might punish them, the professor said. 
It is generally acknowledged that the Iranian public would welcome relations with the United States. Economic sanctions hobble the country's economic development, limiting foreign investment and curbing access to much needed equipment like modern airplanes and computers. 
"Iranians feel that it is a new opportunity that should be capitalized on and accepted for solving the longstanding problems between the two countries," said Davoud Hermidas Bavand, also a political science professor at Tehran University.
Reformist newspapers were quick to try to seize the opportunity to point out that keeping the United States at arm's length might backfire on the conservatives, as voters dismayed by the policy might find reason to go to the polls after all. 
But Iranians from both camps were dismayed that President Bush had repeated American conditions for improving ties with Iran, including more democracy and cooperation on preventing terrorism. 
"I think these matters are internal affairs," said Ms. Koulai, the member of Parliament. 
One government official suggested that Iran's strategic interests in the Persian Gulf and its economic interests -- especially developing its lagging oil industry and delivering advanced consumer goods to more than 60 million Iranians -- run parallel with those of the United States. 
"They are always pointing a finger at Iran and accusing them of these things and that becomes a big hindrance to improving relations," one official said. 
One reformist newspaper marveled at the apparent repetitive pattern in relations, comparing it to an ancient Iranian love tale in which two ill fated lovers, Ramy and Veis, continuously try and fail to unite, leaving each lobbing bitter recriminations at the other. 
"For the past 25 years this scenario of Ramy and Veis keeps repeating itself," said an editorial in the Yass-e-na daily. "Through all these years neither country has been able to erase the other from its dreams or its future plans."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shahrbanoo Mazandarani, a woman in her 90's from Bam, was helped from the rubble eight days after an earthquake destroyed the city. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RELIGION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); CITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%); ALI KHAMENEI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



75 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: BUSH '05 BUDGET SEEKS TO REIN IN DOMESTIC COSTS 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Facing a record budget deficit, Bush administration officials say they have drafted an election-year budget that will rein in the growth of domestic spending without alienating politically influential constituencies.
 They said the president's proposed budget for the 2005 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, would control the rising cost of housing vouchers for the poor, require some veterans to pay more for health care, slow the growth in spending on biomedical research and merge or eliminate some job training and employment programs. The moves are intended to trim the programs without damaging any essential services, the administration said. 
 Even with the improving economic outlook, administration officials said, the federal budget deficit in the current fiscal year is likely to exceed last year's deficit of $374 billion, the largest on record. 
The Congressional Budget Office and the White House budget office have projected a deficit of more than $450 billion this year.
But Joshua B. Bolten, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, has said the president's policies will cut the deficit in half within five years, through a combination of economic growth and fiscal restraint.
Mr. Bush's budget request, to be sent to Congress by Feb. 2, includes several tax cut proposals, including new incentives for individual saving and tax credits to help uninsured people buy health insurance. The Democratic candidates for president have accused Mr. Bush of doing little to halt the recent rapid increase in the number of uninsured.
Administration officials said the president's budget would call for an overall increase of about 3 percent in appropriations for so-called domestic discretionary spending, which excludes the Department of Homeland Security, the Defense Department and insurance benefits like Medicare and Medicaid.
As he completes work on his budget, Mr. Bush faces criticism from conservatives, who say he has presided over a big increase in federal spending, and liberals, who say his tax cuts have converted a large budget surplus to a deficit.
Total federal revenues have declined for three consecutive years, apparently the first time that has happened since the early 1920's. But in those years, from 2000 to 2003, total federal spending has increased slightly more than 20 percent, to $2.16 trillion last year.
Brian M. Riedl, an economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said: "President Bush is not focusing on his fiscal conservative base right now. He's trying to position himself in between conservatives in Congress and the Democratic Party. It may be good politics, but it's bad policy, a lost opportunity to get runaway government spending under control."
White House officials deny that they have acquiesced in a domestic spending spree. They insist, as do some liberal advocacy groups, that appropriations for domestic programs are not exploding. 
Such spending, they say, will increase 3 percent in 2004, after increases of 5 percent in 2003, 6 percent in 2002 and 15 percent in 2001. Moreover, they say, increased corporate profits should lead to an increase in corporate tax payments, lifting revenues in the coming years.
Richard Kogan, a budget analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research and advocacy group, said the increase in military and domestic security spending in the last two years dwarfed the increase in domestic discretionary programs, which did not quite keep pace with inflation.
"The increases for defense, international affairs and homeland security have been much greater -- and thus have played a much larger role in the return to deficits -- than the increases for domestic appropriations," Mr. Kogan said.
Housing officials said the administration was alarmed at increases in the cost of vouchers, which provide rental assistance to low-income families, and would take steps to prevent local housing agencies from issuing more vouchers than Congress had authorized. Congress has tentatively decided to provide $14.2 billion for renewal of vouchers this year, an increase of about 15 percent.
Federal officials said they would also require families seeking housing aid to help the government obtain more accurate information on their earnings. As a condition of receiving aid, families would have to consent to the disclosure of income data reported to a national directory of newly hired employees. The directory was created under a 1996 law to help enforce child-support obligations.
Administration officials said the president's budget would also slow the growth of spending at the National Institutes of Health, which doubled in the last five years, reaching $27.1 billion in 2003. Congress has tentatively agreed to provide $28 billion this year, slightly more than Mr. Bush requested, and administration officials said they would seek an increase of 3 percent or less for 2005.
Budget officials defended the proposal, saying they wanted to be sure the agency was properly managing a huge infusion of federal money.
Mr. Bush proposed last year to double co-payments on prescription drugs for many veterans, primarily those with higher incomes and no service-connected disabilities. The White House reaffirmed its support for that proposal in November.
In the last week, the Pentagon has been considering a new proposal to increase pharmacy co-payments for retirees with at least 20 years of military service. Under the proposal, the charge for a generic drug would rise to $10, from $3, while the charge for a brand-name medicine would rise to $20, from $9.
The Military Officers Association of America criticized this as "a grossly insensitive and wrong-headed proposal." In e-mail messages to the White House, members of the association asked Mr. Bush, "Why do your budget officials persist in trying to cut military benefits?"
Col. Steven P. Strobridge, director of government relations at the association, said he understood that the Pentagon was now inclined to study the issue for a year and renew the proposal, as part of a systematic effort to "reduce military health care costs."
Administration officials said they expected Mr. Bush to seek increases of $1 billion, or 10 percent, for the education of children with disabilities and $1 billion, or 8 percent, in Title I grants for schools with high concentrations of students from low-income families. 
Budget officials said they were concerned that they did not have enough money for Pell grants to keep pace with a recent surge in low-income students seeking help with college costs. They said Mr. Bush would address that problem in some way, without seeking an increase in the maximum grant, now $4,050.
The budget also seeks money to train more nurses, to encourage sexual abstinence among teenagers and to recruit "volunteers in homeland security," who can respond to emergencies, including terrorist attacks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MEDICARE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); MEDICAID (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); BIOMEDICINE (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



76 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Waiting to Inhale 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
Quietly, and without the contraptions or planning of Prohibition, the cigarette smokers of New York have created their own modern rendition of the speakeasy, where their outlawed pleasure can be enjoyed once more. There are no passwords. You just have to wait.
 The proper hour can be 11 p.m., or midnight or later still in places where the patrons do not like to go home. There is no schedule, no phone call, no listing in The Village Voice. The moment comes by common assent, by a shared appraising of all the people remaining in the bar and all the forces around them -- the darkness of the windows, the breath of the staff. 
 "I hear from lots of people, especially in the four outer boroughs," said Audrey Silk, a leader of a group that seeks to repeal the city's smoking ban. "They're letting you smoke." 
When the ban took effect nine months ago, disagreements over the public health and economic implications prevailed. Some establishments searched for loopholes in the law, like the Oak Bar at the Plaza Hotel, which sought to present itself as a cigar bar exempted from enforcement. In large measure, these efforts failed, and smokers moved to the streets, the warm weather making the ban's first months somewhat easier on them.
Open resistance to the ban has been muted, coming mostly in the form of lawsuits, including one filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan just before Christmas by the Players Club, seeking to overturn the city and state antismoking laws. As the weather has turned, though, smokers have taken up secretive civil disobedience.
In the past few weeks, it has happened in about half a dozen bars that were visited over five or so nights. Smokers themselves discussed the phenomenon freely; bartenders were interviewed with the assurance that they would not be named and that identifying details of their establishments would not be revealed.
In each place, it was clear when the moment to light up had arrived. It was preceded by a sensation of being unmasked -- a relief, of sorts -- the kind that comes of knowing one is among friends.
It is a phenomenon not unlike what happened to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's crackdown on jaywalking, when police officers working the streets seemed to decide that, you know what, some New Yorkers were just going to jaywalk at some intersections.
With smoking, too, the setting can be almost as important as the hour of the night. The occasional sudden transformation into a smoking club does not happen in every place. Stay late on a temperate night at Union Pool, a shiny pickup joint in Williamsburg that offers pictures of naked women on the walls and the rattle of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway overhead, and it is likely the moment will never come. There are too many people, and too many windows, and besides, outdoor space is ample.
The opposite also holds. Setting can trump the hour of the night, and smoking can start before 9 p.m., but usually only when the nature of the place is so entwined with notions of decadence and indulgence that few behaviors are questioned. At the Buzzcocks show at Irving Plaza last month, for instance, even the uptight young woman who turned her head to shush other patrons (apparently she was having trouble hearing the punk rock music) held a lighted cigarette.
Ordinarily, though, even in the bars most amenable to smoking, time is the common controlling factor.
There is, for instance, a bright and festively ornamented bar in Brooklyn where a tight group of regulars gathers nightly to drink away the day's frustrations, to work crossword puzzles and argue word derivations. Among other attributes, the place is perhaps the only etymology bar in the city, and its character changes depending on the hour of the day. After a certain point, when only those well-known customers remain, the bartender, who has long since forsworn smoking and drinking, will sometimes lock the door.
And all who remain know the significance of the turning of the bolt.
What happens after the silent declaration that the rules have been lifted is the same wherever you go.
In the far East Village on Christmas night, a silvery Zippo lighter rested on a pack of Marlboro Lights, right there on the bar just a short walk from the Ms. Pac Man machine. The sight was jarring in its familiarity. What bar did those same items not decorate just a year ago?
The smoke that filled the air announced itself, if only because it had been gone long enough to let eyes and noses forget its taste. The smoke-filled bar, it said, was back.
"It never really left," the bartender said, "depending on the time of night or what the clientele is."
Over in a corner, Michael Reiss, of Brooklyn, sat talking with friends. They arranged themselves loosely around a table by a window.
"Smokers in New York City are going to find what they need to do, what they want to do," Mr. Reiss said. "Here, even if you have an outdoor patio, you're going to freeze. You have bars that are going to let it go."
So, knowing that the moment will come, the smokers sit inside these days, and they hold off their cravings as long as they are able. They may even bundle up and go outside once or twice for a light, putting napkins over their drinks like Southern Californians.
In between trips, they wait.
And then the moment comes, and it is like dancing -- it is shared and exuberant and wild. It came after midnight one night last week to a dark and narrow room the shape of a railroad apartment in south Brooklyn, where Christmas lights and candles flickered. A sign on the wall announced that smoking was disallowed. Bodies were sloped lazily on couches. A man on a bar stool had his hand inside the low-slung waistline of his date's jeans.
Boots and Converse All-Stars slapped the floor as the revelers negotiated one another, moving and talking and yelling and smoking. They were in for the night. Long after 3 a.m., a bartender out from his post flicked lighted matches at his customer's feet, laughing and watching the matches expire on the wet floor.
"Dance," the bartender cried.
Up and down the bar from the door to the back wall, the air grew thick and tight and noxious and hazy.
"O.K.," said Matt Taylor, 23, a tourist visiting from Texas. "Everyone's smoking cigarettes. I'm just making sure. . . . "
He let the thought trail off, and was quickly reassured that despite what he had read about New York, smoking was permitted in this bar, on this night, at this hour.
His verbal reaction was overwhelmed by the magic of jukebox speakers, through which Joe Strummer announced from somewhere beyond the great divide that he was still, in fact, the all-night drug-prowling wolf who looks so sick in the sun, and furthermore that he was only looking for fun. His voice faded out and Paul Westerberg's replaced it, reminding a flight attendant who once told him not to smoke that she ain't nothing but a waitress in the sky.
"Who's got an extra cigarette?" called the bartender, and it turned out that just about everybody did.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a bar in Brooklyn, Dylan Keeler lights up after midnight in defiance of the city ban in effect for nine months. (Photographs by Lucian Read for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); SMOKING BANS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); MAYORS (76%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (65%); LITIGATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



77 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Burger Club's Picky Connoisseurs Seek Purity on a Bun 

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Mad cow rocked the cattle markets of the heartland once again last week, but it did little to deter the Burger Club. Yesterday, as it does twice a month, this group of hardy carnivores convened for lunch to talk about its favorite sandwich and indulge a taste for beef.
 As the name suggests, the Burger Club is dedicated to the procurement and consumption of the finest burgers New York City has to offer. The club is only four months old, and yet its members swear allegiance to the classic standards of a prelapsarian burger-eating age. 
 Today's burger, it would seem, is quite unlike the burger of yesteryear. Its size, for one, has gradually expanded into awkwardness, even as a faddish trend for condiments has overwhelmed the underlying flavor of its meat. The modern burger is also made of heretical ingredients, the members say. These include turkey, chicken, mushrooms, and inevitably, soy. 
"We're purists," said Joseph Bavuso, a 40-year-old lawyer, and a charter member. "Myself, I'm looking mostly for high-quality meat, rare to medium-rare. The burger should be unadorned, too, so you can taste a balance between the char and the beef."
The Burger Club was founded by a gamine, 37-year-old burger connoisseur named Elyse HF Maxwell, who tracks her own obsessive interest in the burger to a breathtaking specimen she ate on vacation in the British Virgin Islands at the tender age of 8.
"It was just the most amazing burger," Ms. Maxwell said, with nostalgia in her voice. Her favorites in the city now include the burger served at a little-known lunch counter in the Parker-Meridian Hotel ("Fresh meat, a really nice char") and the succulent six-ounce standard served at yesterday's selection, the Blue Smoke Restaurant on 27th Street.
The iconic burger joints of New York City are mostly a fraud, Ms. Maxwell said. She took a demystifying swipe, for instance, at the Corner Bistro in Greenwich Village, which serves what she described as a "tasteless, big, fat, nothing, boiled burger."
So far, her quest has taken the club to Molly's Restaurant on Third Avenue, the Tavern on Jane on Jane Street, the Parker-Meridian, and to the Landmark Tavern, which had Ms. Maxwell's favorite burger, or at least until she recently found the meat there "not particularly fresh."
Her colleagues are mainly middle-aged white-collar types who may, or may not, have a professional stake in meat. One founding member is Sherri Jackson, 27, who was raised in a grain-growing family near Mansfield, Ohio. Ms. Jackson claims that she can distinguish grain-fed steer from their grass-fed brethren with a single telling bite.
Other members lack such talents. Mark Hesse, for example, is an unemployed chemical engineer with no real expertise in beef. Mr. Hesse, 50, mostly comes for the company, he said, although he also comes in part to put to rest the ghost of burgers past.
"I still think my best burger ever was the one I cooked in Boy Scouts," he explained. "That was Troop 750, in Washington Heights."
Suzanne Fass, 55, is the unofficial statistician. She can be counted on to bring the cooking scale and meat thermometers to lunch. A freelance cookbook editor, Ms. Fass is a notorious stickler for the details. She records these on the club's evaluation sheets, each of which has entries for the burger's "Diameter," "Weight," "Total Height," and "Patty Height."
Ms. Fass is quick to say that the single most important aspect of a burger is getting the temperature right. To that end, she often brings a stopwatch to clock how long it takes between the placing of the order and the arrival of the plate.
"If it's too fast, it means the kitchen partially precooked the burger," she said, and produced a knowing smirk. "If it's too slow, we all get very testy because we're hungry."
As it happened, the waitress, Molly Lariccia, brought the burgers out on time, although Ms. Maxwell's burger was a little off.
"This is not medium-rare," Ms. Maxwell told a second waiter with the slightest quiver of impatience. "Cheddar? Medium-rare? Thanks."
Her words were, of course, heard by the entire Burger Club. The table was completely silent now, the burgers having finally arrived.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 4 about the New York beef enthusiasts of the Burger Club misspelled the name of a hotel they favor. It is Le Parker Meridien, not Parker-Meridian.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elyse HF Maxwell, the founder of the Burger Club, with what she called her favorite hamburger in New York City, at the Blue Smoke Restaurant. She is also fond of the burgers at the Parker-Meridian Hotel. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (73%); LAWYERS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



78 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON; 
Trying to Avoid A Train Wreck

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: WESTFIELD 

 BODY:
ONCE again, Martin Robins is all revved up. 
 That is not so out of character for the 61-year-old Mr. Robins, director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center, a research organization for transportation policy at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. 
 On this recent day he was talking about the need to replenish the state's Transportation Trust Fund and the recent failure of Governor McGreevey and State Legislature to do so when they shelved a plan to raise the gasoline tax -- topics that usually send people running away, responding to a sudden urge to rearrange their sock drawers.
 Not so for Mr. Robins, who has a reputation for relishing the chance to delve into such arcane matters with an acuity and persistence that are offset by an easygoing manner. From his vantage point, New Jersey's transportation network is headed for calamity -- a breakdown in project development, the loss of experts in engineering and construction who will quit or be laid off, and increased financial strain on New Jersey Transit, to name a few problems -- unless the governor and Legislature act soon to find the resources for capital projects involving bridges, roads and mass transit. 
 "As of July 1 2005, it will run out of funds to pay for capital projects," Mr. Robins said of the Transportation Trust Fund, which was created in 1984 as a dependable pay-as-you- go source of financing for long-term transportation construction projects. "It will reach a point where the amount of revenues and the debt service converge, and then there will be no longer any money left to either pay for projects directly or serve as the revenue stream to pay for new bonds."
 His vantage point normally is an office at Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers, where he was named director in September after serving five years as founding director of its Transportation Policy Institute. 
But on this rainy afternoon of a holiday season, he was at his home in this Union County community, specifically the family room and study, where there is a bulletin board filled with news articles and scores of family photographs. 
 Mr. Robbins -- who helped to create New Jersey Transit -- was one of the first people to sound the alarm that the Transportation Trust Fund was in danger of going broke. In November 1999 he wrote an article on the subject for the New Jersey Reporter, a policy magazine, and published another in June 2000 for the New Jersey Policy Perspective, a public policy research group. 
 In the latter report, he called for the creation of a commission to explore ways to fix the fund. In the 1990's the state began borrowing heavily to pay for projects, and now the fund devotes nearly two-thirds of its $745 million operating budget to debt service. 
 Not long ago Governor McGreevey did exactly what Mr. Robins had proposed, appointing a bipartisan panel to study the issue, and he made Mr. Robins a consultant. In November the panel issued a report saying the fund would run out of money unless there was a 12.5- to 15- cent increase in the gasoline tax, which is now 14.5 cents, the fourth lowest in the nation. 
 In the recent lame-duck session of the Legislature, the governor and Democratic lawmakers tried to rally Republican support with the hopes of pushing through an increase in the gas tax, but as opposition from some legislators and motorists grew, aides to the governor sweetened the prospect of a gas tax increase by linking it to the elimination of tolls on the Garden State Parkway. But last month Mr. McGreevey, who faces a difficult re-election campaign next year, put the plan aside, saying he thought it would stall economic recovery in the state.
 Looking at it from the governor's point of view, trying to get the measure passed by a lame duck Legislature seemed a good tactical move, Mr. Robins said. But looking at it from his viewpoint, he said, the governor's strategy did not provide enough time for the kind of debate that would have enlightened the public about how the trust fund works and the need to save it.
 "All the discussion focused on the gas tax," he said. 
 He added: "A clear implication from the governor's action is that there won't be any action until after the gubernatorial election in 2005. After that, you can't predict what will happen."
 Martin E. Robins was born in Brooklyn on May 4, 1942. When he was 10, his father, a purchasing agent for an industrial heating company, followed its relocation to New Jersey and settled in Linden. 
 After graduation from Linden High School, Martin Robins earned an undergraduate degree in 1964 from Princeton and a law degree in 1967 at Harvard. He joined a private law firm, and served as an assistant prosecutor in Hudson County from 1970 to 1974, when he joined the state Attorney General and worked on transportation issues.
 "After a while, I found that although I had this legal training, what I really loved was the policy side of it," he recalled. 
 In 1976 he jumped to the state Department of Transportation, where he eventually became director of policy analysis. While there he befriended Louis J. Gambaccini, who was director of the PATH rail line for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 In 1978, Mr. Gambaccini was appointed Gov. Brendan T. Byrne's transportation commissioner, and he quickly hired Mr. Robins to lead a task force that created the legislative framework for the creation of New Jersey Transit in 1979. 
 Mr. Robins served as acting executive director of New Jersey Transit for six months -- until a permanent director was named -- and he then took the post of deputy executive director. His aide, George Warrington, who today is executive director of ther transit agency, said of Mr. Robins in a 1983 interview: "Public transportation to him is almost a moral commitment. 'Passionate' is probably the best way to describe it."
 In 1983, he was named director of planning and development at the Port Authority, and in 1988 he returned to New Jersey Transit to head the office developing the Hudson Bergen light rail line. 
 From 1994 to 1998, he headed a panel that explored the feasibility of building a new railroad tunnel under the Hudson River. 
 Then in 1998, when Rutgers received a bequest to form a transportation center, James W. Hughes, the dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, picked Mr. Gambaccini as its director, and Mr. Gambaccini invited Mr. Robins to create and direct its policy analysis arm. 
 "Martin has just been a dynamo in bringing the center along, and he's become a major player in the state who people turn to now when there are transportation and policy analysis issues," Dr. Hughes said.
 Then in 2001, Mr. Robins, who succeeded Mr. Gambaccini as director of the Voorhees Center in September, helped write a study critical of New Jersey Transit for diverting 70 percent of its capital finances to operate the agency, a situation brought on by a fiscal crisis that still threatens bus and train service.
Sitting in his family room, Mr. Robins says that the depletion of the Transportation Trust Fund will leave New Jersey Transit especially vulnerable and interrupt "very vigorous project development." 
 "You break the continuity, and that is something we haven't had happen in 20 years," he said. "It takes a long time to figure out what to do on a project, how to solve the engineering problems, how to solve environmental problems. And if you break that continuity on projects, you pay a price." 
 If state officials delay acting on the trust fund until after the election, he warned, they must find an alternative, possibly an interim bond issue.
 As he speaks, there is a noise at the door. 
 "This is my wife, Leslie," he says, making introductions.
 "I'm going through the old story about the debt service," he adds, laughing sheepishly. She laughs too. She has heard this before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Robins is director of the Voorhees Transportation Center at the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. (Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); FUEL TAX (70%); CONSTRUCTION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



79 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
Municipal Madness or 'Creative Localism?'

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: PINE VALLEY 

 BODY:
THE two buildings just across the railroad tracks and inside the metal gates have a sort of Hansel-and-Gretel quality. They are prim white with green shutters and trim, with lush, forest-like vegetation all around. The building to the right has a cute A-frame roof and a road beside it, where you can almost imagine a trail of goodies leading into the woods.
 For golfers, truly, that trail beside that A-frame is a road to Valhalla, as Pine Valley Golf Club is perennially rated the top course in the country. But for the 20 residents of Pine Valley, the borough that surrounds the golf course, the cute A-frame building is police headquarters, next door to Steiniger Hall, the borough office building, where you can often find Robert Mathers, the clerk of Pine Valley, one of New Jersey's least-populous towns. 
 "We operate in the same respect as any other town in the state. We are small in stature, that's all," Mr. Mathers said recently. "We have a construction department as far as meeting state codes. We have a police department - four regulars and three part-timers. We have an assessor. And me. And there is always something that needs to be done." 
 Small as New Jersey is, it has 566 municipalities, a vestige of the state's independent character. Some, like Newark, Jersey City, Paterson and Trenton, are large and have myriad bureaucracies and services. But others have barely enough residents to fill an auditorium. There are Cape May Point (population 241) and Diamond Beach (population 218) in Cape May County, Rockleigh (population 391) in Bergen County and Loch Arbour (population 280) in Monmouth County. Altogether, there are 30 incorporated towns in New Jersey with fewer than 1,000 residents, according to the 2000 census. Four of them have fewer than 50 souls: Walpack (41) in Sussex County, Teterboro (18) in Bergen County and Pine Valley and Tavistock (24) in Camden County.
 "New Jersey is a perfect example of creative localism," said Michael Aaron Rockland, the chairman of American studies at Rutgers University. "From way back, the hallmark of freedom and liberty in the state was to keep things small and decentralized - the idea that the more you centralize, the less you have citizen involvement and caring on local issues. We have long been an involved state."
 Just about everyone in Tavistock is involved, to be sure, and always has been. Actually, Tavistock is infinitely larger today than it was when it was founded in 1921.
 "It was a town without residents when it was formed," said Kathy Tassini, the librarian of the Historical Society of Haddonfield, the town that borders on and provides most services for Tavistock. "Basically, it was made to play golf on Sundays."
 Frank Middleton, who owned the old non-working Gill farm in Center Township, next to Haddonfield, was upset that he and his buddies were thwarted by Blue Laws from golfing on Sundays at the Haddon Country Club in Haddonfield. They formed a committee and, given easy secession laws as they were in New Jersey at the time, Mr. Middleton donated his land for the new town. In time, a few houses were built adjacent to Tavistock Country Club. Though the official figures from the census note 24 people, Ms. Tassini says there are really only 11 residents, making it New Jersey's smallest town, beating out Teterboro by 7.
 "They must have counted the houses on the other side of the street, which are really in Haddonfield," she said.
 Everyone in Tavistock gets to be a part of town government. The eight registered voters elect three commissioners, who then select a mayor among them. George J. Buff III is only the third mayor in the borough's history, and he has been in office 10 years. Mr. Buff appoints a five-member school board, which meets once a year to pass a budget - basically sending payments to Haddonfield for the borough's three schoolchildren. The commission meets every fourth Tuesday - in the borough hall at the 10th hole of the Tavistock golf course.
 The idea that places like Tavistock had to have a school board without having any schools - or even that there should be a place as small as Tavistock at all in New Jersey - so confounded the late Assembly leader Alan Karcher that he wrote a book about it, "New Jersey's Multiple Municipal Madness" (Rutgers Press, 1998) that experts cite as the best on the subject. One chapter, for instance, is called "Shrewsbury, the Incredible Shrinking Township," and shows how, one after another, 74 other municipalities separated themselves over the 19th and early 20th century from Shrewsbury, so that now, the original township has only 56 acres.
 One of those split-offs was Ocean Township. Seaside real-estate developers there found in 1849 that their interests conflicted with the farming and industrial ones of the western end of Shrewsbury. Eventually, places like Eatontown, Ocean Grove, Asbury Park and Interlaken broke away from Ocean Township because of liquor laws or a desire for fancy houses or connections to a railroad stop. The final comeuppance for Ocean Township, though, came in 1957.
 Developers wanted to build a condominium complex on the beachfront in the Loch Arbour section of town. The few homeowners there tried to stop it, but were initially unsuccessful -- until they decided to secede from the township. The Village of Loch Arbour was formed, the last new municipality in New Jersey. When it seceded, it took with it the last piece of oceanfront in the now ironically-named Ocean Township.
 Today, Loch Arbour has but 280 residents, making it the seventh-smallest town in the state. As such, it needs help from other towns to keep services up. It sends school students to Ocean Township, does recycling with Allenhurst, sends sewage to Asbury Park and gets snowplowing from Deal.
 "Over the years, we have investigated merging with other towns, but it is mostly when taxes come out and people think we could keep them down otherwise," said Lorraine Carafa, who serves as village clerk, treasurer, recycling coordinator, tax collector "and a few other things if I think hard enough."
 Various laws since the 1960's have made it much more difficult for sections of towns to split off as Loch Arbour did. But only one town, Pahaquarry, has disappeared -- and that only because the federal government finally acquired all that Warren County township's land in 1997.
 "We made a huge advance, from 567 to 566," James Hughes, the dean of the Edward Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, said with a laugh. "Consolidation would do wonders for services, but no one seems to have the energy to try it. They might consolidate some services, but everyone seems to want to control their own destiny, so we have these little towns."
 They don't get much smaller than Teterboro, which was created in the early 1900's out of parts of Lodi, Little Ferry, Moonachie and Hasbrouck Heights -- none very big themselves -- by William Teter, who wanted to create a residential community. World War I and a recession thwarted him. But the postwar fascination with airplanes brought the Witteman-Lewis Aircraft Company to Teterboro's flat fields. The Bendix Corporation bought the business and expanded and actually renamed the town Bendix. The few houses that were built in town have continued to be occupied, but Teterboro remains primarily its airport and related businesses.
 "You've got to remember that 100 years ago, no one thought that each municipality would have to provide so many services, so it was no big deal to split off and have your own town," Mr. Hughes said. "Now, when you think of schools and sewers and roads and police, well, it might be virtually impossible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: For the 20 residents of Pine Valley -- the borough that surrounds the nation's top-ranked golf course -- the cute A-frame building, left, is police headquarters.; Small as New Jersey is, it has 566 municipalities, a vestige of the state's independent character. Some have myriad bureaucracies. Others, like Tavistock, left, with 24 residents, or Loch Arbor, below, with 280, can barely fill an auditorium. (Photographs by Annie McCormick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CENSUS (66%); HISTORY (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



80 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: ENERGY; 
Next Step Weighed on Pipeline

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
THE developers of a 425-mile natural gas pipeline that had been scheduled to run through Westchester County are again reconsidering their plans in light of a United States Commerce Department ruling that the pipeline's path across the Hudson River is unacceptable. 
 Officials with Columbia Gas Transmission Corp. of Fairfax, Va., the primary sponsor of the pipeline, said they were weighing their options carefully, whether to appeal the Dec. 15 decision in federal court or to go back to the drawing board on the plan, called the Millennium Pipeline. 
 "As part of that process we would expect we would reach out to key agencies in the state and federal governments as we consider what options remain," said Karl Brack, director of communications with Columbia Gas. "We don't know exactly which course we will take, but we do know that the need for the project is as great as it has ever been." 
The project, a $700 million plan to build a natural gas pipeline from Lake Erie to Westchester County, has been a long-running saga pitting the area's need for energy against the wishes of environmentalists, county residents and others who said the route that was finally approved, across the Hudson River at Haverstraw Bay, might threaten fish in the bay and harm the effort to rebuild the waterfront at Croton-on-Hudson. Others feared that an explosion on the gas-line route would cause havoc in a thickly populated area or knock out power to the city. The route was approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in 2001, on the condition that the state and localities approve it. 
The state objected, saying the plan would be in conflict with New York's coastal management program. On Dec. 15, the project took a heavy blow when Donald L. Evans, the United States Secretary of Commerce, rejected Millennium's appeal of a New York Department of State ruling that the pipeline should not cross the Hudson River into Westchester County at Haverstraw Bay.
If the company decides not to appeal the ruling, it will need to find an alternative crossing for the pipeline. Officials with the Department of State said they have suggested 10 alternatives, proposals the company said it had examined and rejected.
At least five of those proposals have been deemed unacceptable for environmental reasons by officials in Rockland County.
Although there was a fight two years ago over the route through Westchester, which ultimately led to the location of the pipeline in a less populated area of Mount Vernon, the current debate focuses on the crossing of the Hudson from Rockland to Westchester. "This is such a tangled web of environmental and economic considerations that it's difficult to predict with any kind of certainty where this goes," said state Assemblyman Ryan Scott Karben, a Democrat who represents several riverfront towns in Rockland County.
"I am not opposed to the pipeline itself," Mr. Karben said. "I believe the pipeline is important to strengthening our national energy independence and grappling with the regional energy issues. I do believe it needs to be built in the area where it will cause the least environmental disturbance."
That concern, along with ones about public safety, have left Westchester and Rockland counties pitted against each other. 
"I commend the folks in Westchester who were far better organized," Karben said. "The Westchester advocates were out early on this issue and had a greater role in shaping the debate. Now there's a situation where the United Communities of Westchester have achieved their objective at the potential price of devastating the Rockland waterfront, and that's a price that is unacceptable."
Specifically, Mr. Karben was concerned about the state's proposed alternatives, four of which cross Piermont Marsh and another that would cross Hook Mountain State Park. 
United Communities of Westchester, a Westchester County-based organization that opposes the current route of the pipeline, has suggested the best alternative would be to stop the pipeline at the Bowline power plant in Rockland County. This would allow Columbia to replace old pipelines while providing time to develop a master energy plan for the region. 
Members of the organization said their concerns range from any damage the pipeline's construction would have in sensitive environmental zones to the safety issues created as it runs under communities near homes and schools. Officials in Croton-on-Hudson have been particularly vocal about the Haverstraw Bay crossing because the route would go through the village arboretum and through well fields that provide its primary drinking supply. In Briarcliff Manor, there are objections because the pipeline runs within 10 feet of Todd Elementary School.
The pipeline route begins at the border of the United States and Canada in Lake Erie and comes ashore in western New York between Erie and Ripley. Nearly 90 percent of the route either replaces existing gas pipelines in operation since the late 1940's or follows existing corridors.
Eamon Moynihan, a spokesman with the Department of State, said it was up to Millennium to determine the next move.
Mr. Karben said that the fastest way out of the stalemate was for the state to sit down with concerned parties and discuss options. "At the end of the day I think the pipeline will be constructed," he said. "I just don't know how long the day is."

GRAPHIC: Map of Westchester shows the location of the proposed Millenium Pipeline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (77%); LAKES (72%); APPEALS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); POWER FAILURES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA GAS TRANSMISSION CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



81 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: THE READING FILE 

 BODY:
The Two Faces Of Saudi Arabia
 IN "The Dual Monarchy," an essay in Foreign Affairs magazine, Michael Scott Doran, an assistant professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton, argues that Saudi Arabia is neither an ally nor an enemy of the United States. Rather, it is both. Excerpts follow: 
 The Saudi monarchy functions as the intermediary between ... a Westernized elite that looks to Europe and the United States as models of political development, and a Wahhabi religious establishment. ... Crown Prince Abdullah tilts toward the liberal reformers and seeks a rapprochement with the United States, whereas Prince Nayef sides with the anti-American religious establishment that shares many goals with Al Qaeda. ... 
 On the right ... the clerics and Nayef take their stand on the principle of Tawhid, or "monotheism." ... In their view, many people who claim to be monotheists are actually polytheists and idolaters. For the most radical Saudi clerics, these enemies include Christians, Jews, Shiites and even insufficiently devout Sunni Muslims. ...
The doctrine of Taqarub ... marks the left. Taqarub promotes the notion of peaceful coexistence with nonbelievers. It also seeks ... the political involvement of groups the Wahhabis consider non-Muslim. ...
Last year's suicide bombings in Riyadh forced Prince Nayef to crack down on extremists inside Saudi Arabia. ... In Washington, these operations have helped to support the view that the Saudis have, once again, become our close allies. ... Although this is certainly a positive development ... indications suggest that ... Al Qaeda and the establishment Saudi clerics still share a strong sense of the common enemy.
Al Qaeda's nightmare scenario is that the Americans and the Iraqi Shiites will force Riyadh to enact broad reforms and bring the Saudi Shiites into the political community. There is no question that many hard-line Saudi clerics share precisely the same fears. ... 
As Washington struggles to rebuild Iraq it will thus find, once again, that its closest Arab ally is also one of its most bitter enemies.

Simple Solution: Return It
ROSS GITTINS, a writer at The Sydney Morning Herald, online at (www.smh.com.au), explains why economists regard gift giving as foolish. Excerpts follow: 
Conventional economics teaches that gift giving is irrational. The satisfaction or "utility" a person derives from consumption is determined by their personal preferences. But no one understands your preferences as well as you do.
So when I give up $50 worth of utility to buy a present for you, the chances are high that you'll value it at less than $50. If so, there's been a mutual loss of utility. This astonishing intellectual breakthrough was first formulated in 1993 by Joel Waldfogel ... in his seminal paper, "The Deadweight Loss of Christmas." ...
But ... research has continued apace -- just in case there's some factor the economists have overlooked.
One possibility is that gifts may procure a source of insurance for the giver. Parents, for instance, may give gifts to their children in the hope the children will care for them in their old age. Adult children may give gifts to their elderly parents in the hope of being remembered at that last great gift giving with lawyers present. 
The guru Waldfogel has recently refined his calculations ... using a new survey to estimate that, per dollar spent, people value their own purchases 18 percent more than they value items they receive as gifts. 
In the course of their inquiries, researchers have discovered that women are much more involved in gift giving than men. ... and are more successful in finding a desirable gift .
Most of this enlightenment comes from a paper by Bradley Ruffle and Todd Kaplan ... which says gift giving makes sense in cases where the giver's knowledge of where to find something the recipient wants is greater than the recipient's own knowledge. Or if the giver is in a position to get it cheaper.
So the rule is that the giver gives a gift only when her "search costs" for the gift are lower than those of the recipient. ...
I should tell you Ruffle has opined that the utility from gifts consists of not only the monetary cost and value of the gift, but also the emotions associated with it. ... 
Really, it makes you wonder how someone so foolish manages to hold down his job.

Rule Britannia
IN the Claremont Review of Books, Terrence O. Moore, a Colorado school principal, argues that today's young American males are either "wimps" or "barbarians," with nary a man among them. Excerpts follow:
Recognizing other barbarians by their ball caps, one barbarian can enter into a verbal exchange with another anywhere. ... This exchange, which never quite reaches the level of conversation, might begin with, "Hey, what up?" A traditional response: "Dude!" ... 
Barbarians do not use words to express thoughts, convey information, paint pictures in the imagination or come to a rational understanding. Such speech as they employ serves mainly to elicit in others audible reactions to a few sensual events: football, sex, hard rock, the latest barbarian movie. ... 
Among the most popular barbarian activities are playing sports and lifting weights. ... Playing sports can encourage young males to cultivate several important manly virtues. ... For this reason, superior cultures have invariably used sports as a proving ground for manly endeavor. As the Duke of Wellington said, "The battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton." The problem is that many young males of today receive no manly education apart from sports. When the British boys who later defeated Napoleon were not competing in the sporting contests conducted in elite public schools, they were learning how to become gentlemen. They spoke the King's English, carried themselves with an air of dignity, treated women with respect and studied assiduously.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Is it more economical to give, or to receive? (Photo by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); WRITERS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



82 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The World: New Wars in Iraq; 
Making Compromises to Keep a Country Whole

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
AS the countdown to the handover of power in Iraq enters its final six months, American officials are focusing on how to create a working democracy. They are trying to walk a fine line between giving ethnic and religious groups the territory, resources and autonomy they demand, and ensuring that such power does not give rise to dangerous nationalisms. 
 That prospect was evident last week in northern Iraq, when clashes among Arabs, Kurds and Turkmen in Kirkuk left at least five people dead. Arabs are trying to lay claim to the oil-rich city, which Kurdish leaders say should be integrated into a proposed autonomous Kurdish region. That corner of the country seemed to be edging closer to more sweeping sectarian conflict. 
 To avoid this, some experts say, the American authorities face the challenge of finding compromises: reallocating economic resources, divvying up power between central and regional governments and perhaps introducing a less familiar version of democracy, one that, for example, limits participation by extremist politicians campaigning on ethnic or religious differences.
"By breaking up the country, you're more likely to get radicalism," said Stephen D. Krasner, a professor of political science at Stanford University. "Iraq looks like a very artificial country, but there's no evidence that breaking up countries makes them more democratic. I think the basic rule has to be, you need institutional arrangements that will make people want to stay with something that looks reasonably democratic, reasonably secular, rather than go elsewhere."
Certainly the various groups within any country are not monolithic. In Iraq, people belonging to ethnic groups, like Arabs and Kurds, and religious groups, like Sunnis and Shiites, differ in the way they view their self-identity. But the seeds of modern sectarianism were planted when British colonial administrators, and then Saddam Hussein, favored certain groups and persecuted others to maintain power. 
In recent weeks, political and religious leaders have been widening some of those fault lines. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the country's most influential Shiite cleric, continues to press for general elections for the transitional government, a demand that, if adopted by the Americans, would favor Shiite politicians, since up to 70 percent of the population in Iraq is Shiite. On Christmas Day, dozens of religious leaders of Sunni Arabs, a minority group favored by the British colonial government and Mr. Hussein, met in Baghdad to form a shoura, or state council, to press for rights.
But the most vexing issue is Kurdish autonomy. The two governing parties in the Kurdish region say they are close to forming a united government that will push American and Iraqi officials to give it dominion over Kirkuk and wide powers throughout the northern region. This view of federalism conflicts with that held by many other Iraqi politicians, who want regional powers granted to smaller provinces.
"The problem is we have many competing thoughts, and all the thoughts are active now," said Dhari Rasheed Ali Yasseen, a professor of political science at Baghdad University.
But certain compromises could be worked out that would motivate the Kurdish parties and other political groups to stay part of -- and help build -- a greater Iraq. For example, Professor Krasner said, a Kurdish government given some autonomy but no land with natural resources -- namely Kirkuk's oil fields -- would have an economic incentive to see themselves as Iraqi-Kurds, and remain part of the new Iraq.
Professor Krasner suggested that all Iraqis might feel invested in the new country, and thus bury specific nationalisms, if they each received payments drawn from Iraq's oil revenues. This could be done by placing oil revenues in a trust, similar to the system Norway adopted. This trust would then issue occasional checks to every resident, as the state of Alaska does, or use the revenues for wide-ranging social programs. 
"Dealing with the oil revenues is absolutely critical," Professor Krasner said. "They must be used across the country so that it's in the interests of the people to stay together."
Compromises would also have to be worked out in dividing powers between central and regional authorities to grant constituencies enough of a sense of self-rule to override narrow nationalistic aspirations. Many proponents of federalism in Iraq say the central government should retain control over defense, foreign and monetary policies. But beyond that, the competing groups cannot seem to agree.
The Kurdish parties, for example, want significant authority over all of northern Iraq, but some other politicians want regional powers to be divided among the 18 provinces that exist today.
Mowaffak Rubaie, a Shiite member of the Governing Council, said his preference was to split Iraq into five states: the Baghdad area; the Kurdish region; the largely Sunni Arab northwest; the Shiite holy area that includes the cities of Najaf and Karbala; and the far south, where the culture is rooted in the nomadic traditions of the Arabian peninsula. A joint government would rule Kirkuk.
 "This system has a tacit acceptance of the ethnic confessional divide of Iraqis," Mr. Rubaie said. "If Najaf and Karbala want to ban alcohol, so be it. But the Kurdish people like their bottle, so let them vote for it."
The trick is to find a balance where states do not have so much autonomy that leaders can use that power to stoke separatist feelings. A key seems to be to disarm regional militias, though the handful of political parties in Iraq that have such armies are reluctant to dissolve them, especially given the continuing instability.
In Russia in the late 1990's, Boris N. Yeltsin granted the governors of the provinces wide-ranging powers to preserve their loyalty to the center. Though India does not have a federalist system, the same push and pull between central and regional authorities exist there. 
Professor Yasseen, the political scientist at Baghdad University, said that in Iraq, federalism appears to be the first step toward separatism for groups like the Kurds. For that reason, he said, he prefers a weaker form of decentralization.
A crucial decision the Americans might have to make is whether to rein in their view of democracy. If a general election were held in the near future, religious leaders would likely try to gain power by emphasizing sectarian differences. If American officials cannot postpone this election, and at this point it might be too late, then they should try to bar extremist politicians from running, Professor Krasner said. There is historical precedent: Germany, for example, has prohibited Nazi parties from taking any real part in politics.
But there may be no easy way to do that in Iraq without appearing heavy-handed and hypocritical. After all, the United States invaded Iraq to install its vision of democracy, based on free speech and equal opportunity. Many Iraqis, regardless of ethnic or religious background, like to think the Americans will leave them with at least those ideals when they pack their bags.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The battleground for Ansar al-Islam, a militant Islamic group, is in northern Iraq, near the border with Iran. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) Chart/Map: Ethnoreligious Groups of Iraq Map of Iraq highlighting the following Ethnoreligious groups of Iraq: Shiite ArabShiite/Sunni ArabSunni ArabKurdSunni TurkomanSunni Arab/Kurd (Source by CIA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); POLITICS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ETHNICITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); CHRISTMAS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



83 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Are Farm Subsidies Good for Us? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The Unkept Promise" (editorial, "Harvesting Poverty" series, Dec. 30): You visited "some of the poorest nations in the world in the last six months" to arrive at the conclusion that farm subsidies "contribute mightily" to poverty in poor countries. 
Too bad you didn't visit farmers in your own backyard -- upstate New York. 
 Data from the International Monetary Fund show record cash flow into many of the poorer countries to buy products -- tomatoes from Mexico, apple juice concentrate from China, for example -- that flow back here to compete unfairly with American farmers who produce under the weight of environmental, social and workplace regulations and minimum wage and tax loads that foreign producers do not have.
Why should we sacrifice our food security and shaky rural economies just because these poorer countries cannot get the cash into the hands of their peasant farmers and workers?

ALAN KNIGHT
Associate Director of Public Policy
New York Farm Bureau
Glenmont, N.Y., Dec. 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (87%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (87%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOOD SECURITY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



84 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Healthy Bones Are High on Agenda 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re the Dec. 28 On Politics column: 
 I was dismayed to see that the Legislature's action declaring 2002-2011 National Bone and Joint Health decade was singled out in support of the argument that the legislature isn't doing anything important. It is vastly important to raise awareness about bone and joint health, although this proclamation alone will not do the trick. 
 Arthritis is the number one cause of disability among Americans 15 years and older, affecting over 2.1 million people in New Jersey. Children are affected, too. There are 300,000 cases of juvenile arthritis in the U.S., accounting for about 9,000 to 12,000 children in New Jersey. This number may be higher due to the lack of proper diagnosis.
 Recent Center for Disease Control statistics tell us arthritis is at epidemic proportions -- 70 million people are affected in the U.S. and this number will only increase as the baby boomer generation ages. Now, more than ever, funding is needed to support programs and research initiatives surrounding this disease. Yet, funding under the Arthritis Quality of Life Initiative Act signed into law by Governor Christine Whitman in 1999 has been cut from $634,000 to $464,000 for the 2003 fiscal year and to $232,000 for the 2004 fiscal year. 
 Arthritis also represents a large financial burden. It accounts for 39 million doctor visits and 500,000 hospitalizations each year. Combined with prescription drug costs, this disease results in an estimated national economic impact of $125 billion annually, including $3.8 billion for New Jersey. And, there are still many others not seeking treatment.
Research tells us that early diagnosis is the key to combating arthritis, which encompasses more than 100 different diseases including well-known forms such as rheumatoid and osteoarthritis, and extending to gout, lupus and fibromyalgia. More than half of the people with these and other arthritis-related conditions are under the age of 65 -- mostly women -- and experience symptoms from minor stiffness to so severe they're unable to walk, dress or bathe on their own.
 We offer over 100 community-based programs throughout the state to help people manage arthritis. If the New Jersey legislature wants to publicly support people who are raising awareness about Joint and Bone Health, I say it's one of the most powerful things they can do this year.

Dennis Hirschfelder
Iselin

The author is president of the New Jersey chapter of the Arthritis Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); ARTHRITIS (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); LUPUS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); GOUT (77%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WRITERS (73%); EPIDEMICS (73%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); BABY BOOMERS (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



85 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
MURRAY, A. BREAN

 BODY:
 MURRAY--A. Brean, 66, of heart failure on December 25, 2003. Resident of New York City, Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY and Sun Valley, ID. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Bettina Patterson Murray, sons Christopher and Stephen Murray of Portland, OR, stepdaughter Renee Sands Tobin of New York City and stepgranddaughter Rory Patterson Tobin. Brother of Sean, Noel, Kevin and Grant Cunningham and Lee Cunningham Lisman (who predeceased him). Born in Dublin, Ireland, he emigrated to the United States in 1950 and became a citizen in 1952. He served in the US Army from 1954-1957 as a member of the 82nd Airborne Division and was also assigned to the US Military Academy at West Point. In 1961, he received his BS in Economics from Villanova University, PA. His business career started at IBM and continued with Cogan, Berlind, Weill & Levitt, where he became a partner in 1965. In 1973, he founded Brean Murray & Co., a privately held investment firm. His association with other companies included founding and serving on the board of Shared Medical Systems and as a director of Concept, Inc. At the time of his death he was serving as a director of both Specialty Toner Corp. and Somanetics Corp. He served as an Official of the American Stock Exchange, and in 1985 was elected to the Board of the Tax Council. He was a director of Doral Financial Corp., a firm based in Puerto Rico, for approximately nine years. 
For the past two years, Brean Murrany & Co. has sponsored the Investment Opportunities in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico conferences. On October 30, 2003, the conference was held at the New York Stock Exchange and Brean rang the closing bell that day to celebrate the conclusion of the conference. He was a member of the Board of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice Foundation, CUNY. He was instrumental in the establishment of the McCabe Fellowship, a scholarship exchange program between police professionals from John Jay College and the An Garda Siochana, the national police force in Ireland. In 1988, Brean and his wife, Bettina, created a scholarship fund to enable financially underprivileged students to attend Columbia University's Summer Program for High School Students. This program is designed for highly motivated students to experience college-level study, and over the past sixteen years the scholarship fund has supported over 400 students. A private funeral service and burial will be held in Cornwall-on-Hudson. A memorial service will be held in New York on January 12th at 4:30PM at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th St. and 5th Ave, followed by a reception at The Union Club, 109 East 69 St. In lieu of flowers memorial donations may be made to The John Jay College Foundation, for the Brean Murray Scholarship Fund, President's Office/ P. Maull, 899 10th Ave, New York, NY 10019 or to The Scholarship Fund, Columbia University's Summer Program for High School Students, Attn: Paul McNeil, 303 Lewisohn Hall, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); ARMIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); BOARD CHANGES (67%); US TERRITORIES (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) 

COMPANY: BREAN MURRAY CARRET & CO LLC (83%); COVIDIEN PLC (67%); TONER CORP (67%); DORAL FINANCIAL CORP (66%); SIEMENS MEDICAL SOLUTIONS USA INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: COV (NYSE) (67%); DRL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON:  MURRAY, A. BREAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); IRELAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



86 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Builds A Microcosm Of Itself 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is a correspondent in the Tokyo bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
LET'S meet at the spider.
 A year ago, that invitation had no meaning. But since April l, the 30-foot-high Louise Bourgeois bronze sculpture has tiptoed into Tokyo's collective consciousness. The children of Japanese who once worried about Godzilla are now sheltered by the eight welcoming limbs of an arachnid formally called "Maman." 
 The spider is the jumping-off point for exploring Roppongi Hills, Tokyo's new "city in a city," two miles from the Ginza, in Roppongi, a neighborhood of bars, restaurants and upscale housing. 
For style-obsessed Tokyo, always striving to be 10 degrees ahead of New York and London, this 29-acre, $4 billion complex of curving glass, minimalist metal and earthy stone arrives after a decade in gestation, offering an enticing conglomeration: cutting-edge restaurants, shopping, a hotel, movie theaters and art, as well as a 54-story office tower and a residential complex. Exploring Roppongi Hills is a new key to understanding Japan today -- and tomorrow.
Although 99 percent of the clientele is Japanese, the new complex is deliberately welcoming to English speakers. Signs are largely bilingual and tenants are under orders from Minoru Mori, the real-estate force behind the ambitious development, to hire employees with basic English skills. The omnipresent free brochures, however, with such titles as "Artelligent Christmas," "Hills Life" and "Floor Guide," turn out to be all in Japanese.
Still, remarked a friend over drinks, "The English here is better than at the Imperial Hotel." Rick Herman, a portfolio manager from Philadelphia, had temporarily defected from the Imperial, Tokyo's famous downtown standby, to join my wife, Elizabeth, and me at Maduro, the elegant new bar in the Grand Hyatt Tokyo at Roppongi Hills. Exuding an exclusive clublike air, the bar's door is a gray, anonymous block that silently slides open on approach.
With warm, subdued lighting and an impressive wine list, Maduro was to be named Morgan, until the designer, a New Yorker, learned that the two anchor tenants of the Roppongi Hills office tower were to be Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs. 
Even though Elizabeth and I were staying at the Hyatt, Maduro would not take reservations. But the tables were plentiful before dinner. Peeking in after dinner, we discovered that there was a $14 cover charge, and the place was filled with Tokyo's beautiful people.
For dinner, we went to Juniper, a Hyatt restaurant about 50 feet away -- which, like many excursions in Roppongi Hills, involved briefly getting lost. A Scandinavian-Japanese fusion menu at Juniper is based on the lean cuisine of northern Europe and served with Japanese attention to detail and subtlety. The smoked salmon and turbot came in just the right size portions to be savored, not gobbled. A D.J. played music, but not so loud that it impeded conversation.
After dinner, we strolled from the Hyatt, down Keyakizaka Street, window shopping our way past Louis Vuitton, Courreges, Coach and La Perla lingerie. Just the way the mature trees add instant grace to the eight-month-old street, the high-class lineup of stores is making Keyakizaka an overnight competitor with the Ginza, Tokyo's Fifth Avenue, albeit with a neon touch.
Modern Japan's best buzz meter is the concentration of cellphone cameras. On that Friday night, the cameras were out in force: couples on dates taking self-portraits in front of the Christmas tree sculpture and knots of office workers gathering, slightly inebriated, for year-end snapshot e-mail messages.
The setting of the winter sun had provoked the disappearance of those who populate the place during the day: the fashionistas, the strollers through the gingkos and ponds of the one-acre traditional Japanese garden, and the high-tech tourists each equipped with a headset as if on a museum tour.
Some of the tourists had ducked inside the nearby TV Asahi headquarters building to sip tea at the cafe overlooking the garden or to browse in the lobby, decorated with costumes from historical soap operas. 
Others had gone upward, 700 feet up to the sky deck, Tokyo City View, reached by elevators that whisk visitors 52 stories up the Mori Tower, the glass-sheathed centerpiece of the complex.
Peering through glass walls that seem to be polished every 18 minutes, a visitor can walk around the main office tower, to see all of Tokyo, night or day. Perhaps the world's only high-rise that sells gin and tonics and wasabi muffins, its sky deck is open early enough to see Mount Fuji lighted by the morning sun and late enough to allow couples on dates to cuddle.
The City View ticket -- $14.25 for adults and $4.75 for younger children (at 109 yen to the dollar) -- also allows admission to the Mori Art Museum, (the Mori Art Museum is part of the Mori Arts Center) on the two floors above the observation deck, at the pinnacle of the complex. Lured initially by the city panorama, visitors flow naturally up escalators and into the galleries of the full-size big-city modern art museum. 
As with the museum's first exhibition on the theme of "Happiness: A Survival Guide for Art and Life," running through Jan. 18, the idea is to assemble pieces from different countries, from different media, to create a fleeting intellectual moment, and then to move on. 
The museum has no permanent collection (the next exhibition, "Roppongi Crossing: New Vision of Japanese Art 2004," runs from Feb. 7 to April 11). David S. Elliott, the director, is from Britain, making him the first foreigner to run a museum in Japan.
Back at ground level that Friday evening, the sake had been flowing. A tipsy young jaywalker shook with giggles as her girlfriends labored to extricate her boot heel from a chain fence along the sidewalk.
Then they then collapsed onto Droog Design's pink sofa. Designed to be admired -- and sat upon -- Roppongi Hills' "street furniture" includes Shigeru Uchida's benchlike red ribbon and Tokujin Yoshioka's translucent chair.
At night, the outdoor furniture takes on a magical aspect as fizzy white light rotates across walls and one sidewalk glows with indented lights in the shape of blue diamonds. High atop the office tower, a bowtie effect of lights and shadows looks vaguely like the black bat shadow once projected in the Gotham sky to call Batman.
Leaving the fantasy of the streets, we walked into Starbucks, which is a port of entry to Tsutaya, a two-level store that sells books, magazines and the kind of manga (comic books) and anime (cartoons) that are now Japan's cultural calling card the world over.
From there, we wended our way up one escalator and past Virgin Cinemas, where our 13-year-old son, James, has undoubtedly seen enough movies to allow him to fly to Shanghai on his Cinemileage card.
We passed the food court, where a bagelry sells minibagels, and then down an escalator to Heartland, a small, extremely popular standup bar.
Blocking our entrance were three well-dressed young blond women. They peered inside and conferred. After some indecision, they wheeled off into the night with a flash of pearls. 
Inside, smoke hung in the air. Western men, largely 20-something traders from upstairs, bellowed into one another's faces and hoisted beers. A few brave Japanese women cautiously sipped drinks, while standing on the fringes.
Out we spun into the fresh air, and then ducked into the Hyatt, with its lobby that features dramatic abstract sculptures. Not to be confused with the Park Hyatt Tokyo, which was featured in Sofia Coppola's movie "Lost in Translation," Tokyo's newest Hyatt in Roppongi Hills has become a destination in its own right since opening last April. Twice in 12 hours, I bumped into friends at the hotel. The nine restaurants and bars are a major draw, including the French Kitchen on the second floor, a restaurant where the line between kitchen and customer dissolves. 
Fast becoming a favorite for Tokyo suburbanites on a weekend in town, the hotel has a spa on the fifth floor and a swimming pool that looks as if it were borrowed from a Greek myth. 
Up we went to our room on the 20th floor, where we tumbled into a firm bed that Elizabeth pronounced "better than at home." With blond-wood paneling and flat-screen TV's, the room projected a minimalist elegance. In the morning, I stretched out my right arm, held down a switch and raised the blackout curtain. Cool. Another button rolled up the second shade.
Before us stretched western Tokyo's low-rise buildings, the high-rise cluster of Shibuya's entertainment district, outbound traffic clogged on Metropolitan Expressway No. 3, swatches of green parkland, and on and on, to the foothills of Mount Fuji, which, true to form, was blocked by clouds. 
Twelve hours at Roppongi Hills was a reminder that while the headlines say the Japanese economy is in a state of stagnation, the Japanese are always creating. One year ago, the experts were predicting failure. But Roppongi Hills drew 26 million visitors in its first six months, double the draw of Tokyo's two Disney parks. The complex gives a glimpse of a new Tokyo: high-rise, high-tech and high style. 

If you go
For information on Roppongi Hills, visit www.roppongihills.com/en/information. Although there are over 2,700 parking spaces in the complex, the simplest way to get there is by taxi.
Tokyo City View, (81-3) 6406-6652, www.tokyocityview.com. Admission, $14.25 for adults (at 109 yen to the dollar); high school and college students, $9.50; younger children, $4.75. Open 9 a.m. to 1 a.m.; last admission at midnight.
Grand Hyatt Tokyo, (81-3) 4333-1234, www.grandhyatttokyo.com. Standard rates in the 389-room hotel start at $438. In the Maduro Bar, reservations (81-3) 4333-8888, four glasses of wine cost $86. At the Juniper restaurant, (81-3) 4333-1234, dinner for two with two glasses of wine was $201.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Along came a spider ("Maman" by Louise Bourgeois) and sat down beside the Mori Tower. Outside the TV Asahi building. Mount Fuji as seen from Tokyo City View, on the 52nd floor of the tower. (Photographs by Jeremy Sutton-Hibbert for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Street seating, by Droog Design. Multitasking outside a Roppongi Hills store. RIGHT Juniper restaurant, Grand Hyatt. Entrance to Mori Arts Center. (Photographs by Jeremy Sutton-Hibbert for The New York Times)(pg. 7) Map of Tokyo shows surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); FILM (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (70%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (70%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (50%); NORTHERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



87 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2584 words

HEADLINE: For Toys 'R' Us, A Time to Rebuild 

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: PARAMUS 

 BODY:
LIKE those cartoon figures carrying signs declaring that the end is near, two men walked on a grassy strip bordering Route 17 next to the Kids "R" Us clothing store here on a recent Saturday, their red and yellow signs telling motorists that great savings could be had in the store.
 But the real message was that the store was closing. 
 The end is near not just for this store but for 145 other Kids "R" Us locations. The parent company, Toys "R" Us -- a cornerstone of the corporate landscape in North Jersey since the early 1970's -- plans to shut them by the end of January, along with 36 Imaginarium educational toy stores, because of sluggish sales and mounting losses. In addition, three distribution centers, including one in Saddle Brook, will be closing, and a total of 3,800 of the chain's approximately 114,000 employees will lose their jobs. 
 The company's announcement last month -- coming eerily about the same time that another venerable name in the toy world, F.A.O. Schwarz, was declaring bankruptcy for the second time -- is indicative of the larger problems that Toys "R" Us has been facing for years: flat sales, faltering profits and declining stock value. 
 "By the late 1990's, a lot of customer had soured on Toys 'R' Us," Ursula Moran, vice president for investor relations and corporate communications, said in a recent interview. "A lot said, 'I can't get the right help, I can't get the right price.' We've struggled to turn that around, and it's hard work. It took long, hard years for things to decline, and it's taken long years to rebuild."
 Founded by a World War II veteran, Charles Lazarus, in his father's Washington bicycle shop 55 years ago, Toys "R" Us pioneered the big box store concept and went on to prosper, becoming the leading toy retailer in the country. Then another company -- started by a friend of Mr. Lazarus, Sam Walton -- refined the big box concept -- and that company, Wal-Mart, knocked Toys "R" Us from its position as the nation's leading toy retailer in 1998 by slashing prices.
 Like a child who hits a pothole while learning to ride a bike, Toys "R" Us never fully recovered. 
 The partly filled parking lot at the Kids "R" Us on Route 17 may attest to faltering sales. But right across the highway, the parking lot of the Babies "R" Us store -- a division with consistently good earnings -- is nearly full. And just up the road, the parking lot at Toys "R" Us is packed with motorists waiting for a space to open up, an indication that this particular store, at least, is doing well in what one stock analyst calls "a battlefield" in the toy wars.

Sales Remain Flat
 After the dust settles, the company will continue to operate 681 Toys "R" Us stores in the United States; 569 others around the world; 193 Babies "R" Us stores; 4 Geoffreys , which combine the inventory of all the stores for sale in rural areas, and its e-commerce division.
 Yet for all of its revitalization efforts, sales have remained flat at $11.3 billion for the fiscal year ending in 2003 as against $11 billion in 2002 and $11.3 billion in 2001.
 For now, the company says 15 to 20 Kids "R" Us locations may re-open as Babies "R" Us. Toys "R" Us will also continue to sell children's apparel and the educational toys that were the staples of Kids "R" Us and Imaginarium. 
 "Toys 'R' Us is a children's paradise," said Margarita Lemberg, 40, of Greenwood Lake, who spoke almost poetically about her experience in shopping at Toys "R" Us stores over the last decade. "You don't go there just to shop. You go to enter the children's world."
 Jeehye Park, a 37-year old former Manhattan resident who recently moved to Ridgewood, loves the huge Toys "R" Us flagship store in TimesSquare, with its 60-foot working Ferris wheel and 35-foot dinosaur, but has other emotions reserved for the store in Paramus. 
 "I went in once to Toys 'R' Us for a Halloween costume and they were sold out," Ms. Park said. "And no one was there to help you."
 Stories like that make company officials shudder, especially since the chain says it has tried to train its staff in an effort to improve customer service. To combat complaints like those of Ms. Park, in 2000 Toys "R" Us hired a new president and chief executive, John H. Eyler Jr., the highly regarded chairman and chief executive of F.A.O. Schwarz. 
 Mr. Eyler had his work cut out for him trying to lure back customers who had tired of wandering the stores' vast aisles with a less-than-helpful staff. 
 In the last three years Mr. Eyler has redesigned the impersonal big box stores by creating cozier environments, opening stores that sell clothing as well as toys, closing others and implementing a series of layoffs.
 He also instituted tighter inventory controls, added more exclusive items, teamed up with Amazon.com for Internet sales and emphasized better customer relations from a sales staff that to many shoppers had appeared inexperienced and indifferent.
 For his effort, Mr. Eyler -- who is taking on such retailing giants as Wal-Mart, Target and K-Mart -- receives high marks from Walter Loeb, a stock analyst at Loeb Associates. "Wal-Mart has been selling toys at a discount," Mr. Loeb said. "As a result, this has become a battlefield here. I do believe that Eyler had made some major improvements, making the toy stores more shop-able, adding Imaginarium and other toy classifications to its stores and adding to the general dynamic by adding exclusive toys to Toys 'R' Us."
 As the holiday season drew to a close, analysts were watching to see whether these strategies paid off. Historically, November and December account for nearly half of all toy sales, and these seasonal sales have helped boost Toys "R" Us revenue in the past after disappointing earnings earlier in the year. Yet early snowstorms last month hurt merchants, and it is still not clear how much a strengthening economy inspired consumer confidence among lower- and middle-class shoppers. Even Wal-Mart, which began cutting prices on popular toys as early as October, reported disappointing sales last month. 
 Toys "R" Us, a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange, does not plan to make its holiday sales figures available until Jan. 8. Successful holiday sales season or not, no one can say for sure what the future holds for Toys "R" Us or Mr. Eyler.

He Saw a Future in Toys
 Charles Lazarus was a 25-year-old Army veteran in 1948 when he began selling baby furniture to G.I.'s from his father's bicycle shop in Washington. He quickly saw a future in toy sales, and in 1952 he began opening toy supermarkets, precursors of the big-box stores. By 1957, his stores, which had been called Children's Bargain Town, became Toys "R" Us. 
 The company moved its headquarters to New Jersey in 1973, settling first in Saddle Brook and then relocating in the early 1980's to Rochelle Park. In 1988, it moved into an office building off Route 17 in Paramus, where its headquarters remained until a move to Wayne last October.
 "The toy business was kind of an accident," Mr. Lazarus said in an interview with DSN Retailing Today, a monthly trade publication for discounters. "I started out selling a few baby toys and realized that customers didn't buy another crib or another high chair or playpen as their family grew, but they did buy toys for each child."
 By 1980 the company was reporting $480 million in sales. And in 1983, Toys "R" Us opened its Kids "R" Us stores as well as its first toy stores overseas. (Toys "R" Us can now be found in 29 foreign countries.) By 1990, the company had reached sales of $4.8 billion and held a commanding 25 percent market share.
 Then in 1994, at age 71, Mr. Lazarus -- who served on the board of Wal-Mart for eight years -- retired as chief executive of Toys "R" Us. 
 About this time the stores were beginning to show their age, and profits and stock returns were starting to slide as competition from major discounters increased. 
 Still, Babies "R" Us opened in 1996. Yet despite that and other attempts at rejuvenation, the chain's problems continued. By 1998, despite closing dozens of stores and laying off thousands of employees, Toys "R" Us saw its No. 1 position in toy retailing go to Wal-Mart. Its market share, which had been 25 percent only eight years earlier, was down to 16.8 percent. Since then, the company said, its market share has been edging up, and is now 17.5 percent.
 In 1999, the company tried to improve sales through educational toys, and to that end it bought about 40 Imaginarium Toy Center stores in 13 states. Despite high expectations, its Christmas sales were terrible, mostly because it could not keep its stores stocked and could not deliver the toys that had been ordered on its new Web site. 
 In January 2000, the company turned to Mr. Eyler, who as chief executive of F.A.O Schwartz had made a name for himself because of his merchandising skills and experience in e-commerce. 
 Eventually given the title of chairman, the 55-year old Mr. Eyler, who lives in Rye, N.Y., is the third chief executive to head Toys "R" Us since Mr. Lazarus retired. Born in Seattle, he graduated from the University of Washington and received an M.B.A. from the Harvard University School of Business. Among his accomplishments at F.A.O. Schwarz was breathing life -- at least for a time -- into some moribund stores and improving customer service. 
 Before arriving at F.A.O. Schwarz, Mr. Eyler held various management positions in the May Department Stores from 1979 to 1983 before moving on to serve as chief executive of Mainstreet, a family apparel unit of Federated Department Stores, and then chief executive of the men's clothing division of Hartmarx Corporation. 
 "To me, looking at a company like Toys, the first order of business is to agree on strategy and tightly focus on a very finite number of priorities," Mr. Eyler told The New York Times after being named to head Toys "R" Us.
 Mr. Eyler, who declined to be interviewed for this article, made it a point of meeting every store manager and emphasizing better training for employees. 
 Then he launched a program to make the stores look less like warehouses, with aisle after aisle of toys, by creating clusters of specialty toys called boutiques like Animal Alley for an expanded line of plush toys, Imaginarium for educational toys and the R-Zone for games. 
 At the same time he increased the number of toys sold exclusively by the company from 5 percent to 20 percent of the inventory and made sure there was a system in place to keep the shelves supplied with top-selling merchandise. He also formed a partnership with Amazon.com to ensure that there would be no repeat of the e-sale disaster of the 1999 holiday season. 
 In a sense, Ms. Moran said, Toys "R" Us had become a victim of its own success. "If you under-invest and neglect the physical plant and don't providegood customer service and don't make the right decisions, which is what happened to Toys 'R' Us store in the late 1990's," she said, "then the consequences are not going to be pleasant." 
 Based on comments from shoppers, said Susan McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the company, customer relations have improved considerably.

High Profile in Times Square
 To further shore up the sagging company, Mr. Eyler also persuaded the board to grab some attention by opening a 100,000-square-foot flagship store -- a combination toy palace and theme park -- at Broadway and West 44th Street in late 2001, a time when the economy was going south and New York was still reeling from the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
 For now, Ms. Moran said, the company was "pretty close to making money" at the Times Square store, but added that the real benefit was from the high profile it gave the company. 
 "The promotional value in that store is clearly positive," she said. "This year alone more than 10 million people will come through that store. It is one of the top ten tourist destinations in New York at this point."
 Yet while spending money with one hand, Mr. Eyler was keeping a tight fist with the other. In January 2002, the company closed 37 Kids "R" Us and 27 Toys "R" Us stores considered out-of-date and eliminated 1,350 store jobs and 550 positions at company headquarters. Again in January 2003, the company cut 700 store management and supervisory positions. 
 Finally, in October -- for the first time in the history of Toys "R" Us-- -- the company brought together all of its main divisions under one roof in new corporate headquarters in Wayne.
 "There's a lot more communication within the organization, plus a greater sharing of ideas," said Ms. McLaughlin.
 For the third quarter that ended in November, Toys "R" Us reported that total sales were $2.32 billion, up 2.2 percent over a comparable period last year, though there was a net loss of $38 million, or $0.18 per share compared with a net loss of $28 million, a loss of $0.13 a share, for the third quarter of 2002.
 In the United States, the company's toy sales declined 3 percent because of lower video game sales, which were down 18 percent. Yet its comparable international sales increased 1.7 percent on top of a 4.1 percent gain last year in the third quarter, and Toysrus.Com sales grew 15.3 percent.
 Babies "R" Us store sales continued to be one of the company's moneymakers, with an increase of 9.6 percent in total sales -- a 3 percent increase in comparable store sales -- because of loyal shoppers like Jennifer Haveman, 28, of Westwood, who has an 18-month old son, Ethan. 
 "I shop there all the time," Ms. Haveman said. "I think the prices are comparable to other places. I pay less for Desitin cream there than I do at Shop-Rite. Even juices. There isn't nearly as much sugar in the juice it sells, less than in other stores. It's so nice to be able to get everything you need for your child at one place." 
 For all of the euphoria over Babies "R" Us, anemic sales at Kids "R" Us for the quarter sealed its fate as a free-standing store. Comparable sales were down 11.5 percent, prompting the company to announce their closing along with the Imaginariums. On the day of the announcement of third quarter earnings and the store closings, Toys "R" Us stock dropped $1.56, to $11.18. 
 In 1994, when Mr. Lazarus retired, the company's stock value at the end of that year was $36.50, according to Hoover's Inc., a Texas-based company that provides corporate profiles. At the close of the fiscal year ending in 2003, the price was $9.04 cents, and the net profit margin in those years dropped from 6.1 percent to 2 percent.

The Company Sees Progress
 In the face of such stark numbers, company officials insist that progress has been made in the past three years and that Mr. Eyler's strategies will help turn the tide. As for the future, Ms. Moran said,the strategy remains the same: continue to improve product and customer service, make the experience in the store fun and pleasant, keep the stores well stocked and try to sell at a reasonable, competitive price. 
 Asked whether Toys "R" Us could ever hope to recapture its pre-eminence, from Wal-Mart, Ms. Moran's answer was a surprising no. 
 "We would be deluding ourselves that we are going to grow by taking share back from Wal-Mart," Ms. Moran said, noting that Walmart has 20 percent of the market and Target about 10 percent.
 "There's still 70 percent for everybody else and that's the share we're going for," she said. "We're number two. Nobody else is close to us at this point. We have held our own against Wal-Mart reasonably well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toys "R" Us -- a cornerstone of the corporate landscape in North Jersey since the early 1970's -- plans to shut almost 150 Kids "R" Us stores by the end of January, along with 36 Imaginarium educational toy stores, because of sluggish sales and mounting losses. In 2000 the company hired a new president and chief executive, John H. Eyler Jr., above, the highly regarded chairman and chief executive of F.A.O. Schwarz. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Kids "R" Us on Route 17 in Paramus, top, will be closing along with 145 other stores. The company will still operate 681 Toys "R" Us stores in the United States; 569 others around the world; 193 Babies "R" Us stores; 4 Geoffreys, which combine the inventory of all the stores for sale in rural areas, and its e-commerce division. Charles Lazarus, right, started the chain in 1948 by selling baby furniture from his father's bike shop in Washington. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (67%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); WORLD WAR II (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (90%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



88 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: The Everything Explainer 

BYLINE:  By Samantha Power; Samantha Power is the author of " 'A Problem From Hell': America and the Age of Genocide," winner of the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction.

 BODY:
 HEGEMONY OR SURVIVAL
America's Quest for Global Dominance.
By Noam Chomsky.
278 pp. New York:
Metropolitan Books/
Henry Holt & Company. $22.
 SINCE Sept. 11, 2001, Americans have been heard to exclaim -- with varying degrees of shame, bewilderment and indignation -- Why do they hate us?" The response tends to fall between two extremes. Bush administration officials say, in essence, they hate us for who we are. As President Bush has put it, "They hate progress, and freedom, and choice, and culture, and music, and laughter, and women, and Christians, and Jews and all Muslims who reject their distorted doctrines." At the opposite end stands the M.I.T. professor Noam Chomsky. "Why do they hate us?" Chomsky asks in "Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance." "Because of you and your associates, Mr. Bush, and what you have done." 
Revered and reviled, Noam Chomsky is a global phenomenon. Indeed, if book sales are any standard to go by, he may be the most widely read American voice on foreign policy on the planet today. With the United States increasingly suspect around the world -- a recent Gallup poll found that 55 percent of citizens in Britain thought the United States "posed a threat to peace," while a June BBC survey found that 60 percent of Indonesians, 71 percent of Jordanians and even 25 percent of Canadians viewed the United States as a greater threat than Al Qaeda -- the appetite for Chomsky's polemics is only increasing. It is but one testament to America's diminished standing that his most recent book,
"9-11," a slight collection of interviews (largely conducted via e-mail), was published in 26 countries and translated into 23 languages, finding its way onto best-seller lists in the United States, Canada, Germany, India, Italy, Japan and New Zealand. And at home, as mainstream dissent dissipated in the wake of 9/11, a new generation of disgruntled critics has turned to Chomsky for guidance.
"Hegemony or Survival" is a raging and often meandering assault on United States foreign policy and the elites who shape it. Drawing upon case after historical case of violent meddling (Iran, Cuba, Vietnam, Nicaragua, Kosovo, etc.), Chomsky argues that the Bush administration's war on terrorism builds upon a long tradition of foreign interventions carried out in the name of "liberation" or "counterterror," of special interests run amok and of disdain for international institutions that dare to challenge American hegemony. "It is only natural," he writes, "that state policy should seek to construct a world system open to U.S. economic penetration and political control, tolerating no rivals or threats." 
Chomsky finds the Bush administration new in only two ways: the crassness of its motives is far more transparent, and it is now playing for far higher stakes. "Over the years, tactics have been refined and modified," Chomsky writes, "progressively ratcheting up the means of violence and driving our endangered species closer to the edge of catastrophe." Unless American statesmen stop ranking hegemony above survival, he says, our 100,000-year-old experiment in human life may well be doomed.
For Chomsky, the world is divided into oppressor and oppressed. America, the prime oppressor, can do no right, while the sins of those categorized as oppressed receive scant mention. Because he deems American foreign policy inherently violent and expansionist, he is unconcerned with the motives behind particular policies, or the ethics of particular individuals in government. And since he considers the United States the leading terrorist state, little distinguishes American air strikes in Serbia undertaken at night with high-precision weaponry from World Trade Center attacks timed to maximize the number of office workers who have just sat down with their morning coffee. 
It is inconceivable, in Chomsky's view, that American power could be harnessed for good. Thus, the billions of dollars in foreign aid earmarked each year for disaster relief, schools, famine prevention, AIDS treatment, etc. -- and the interventions in Kosovo and East Timor -- have to be explained away. The Kosovo and Timor operations' prime achievement, he writes, was to establish the norm of resort to force without Security Council authorization. On this both the Kosovars and the Timorese, whose welfare Chomsky has heroically championed over the years, would strongly disagree. 
"Survival or Hegemony" is not easy to read. Chomsky's glib and caustic tone is distracting. He relies heavily upon quotations, but rarely identifies the speaker or writer. The endnotes supply more frustration. Bill Clinton's humanitarian rationale for the Kosovo war was ridiculed "by leading military and political analysts" in Israel, we are told, but the citation leads only to an earlier book by Chomsky himself. When he agrees with a claim, Chomsky introduces it with the word "uncontroversially" or credits it to "distinguished authorities." Those who don't share his viewpoint don't simply disagree; they are the "prevailing intellectual culture" or the "educated classes." This is a thinker far too accustomed to preaching to an uncritical choir.
Often he meets official falsehoods with exaggerations of his own. President Clinton, he says, "was flying Al Qaeda and Hezbollah operatives to Bosnia to support the U.S. side in the ongoing wars." And "radical Islamists" have taken over in Kosovo, leading to a "Taliban phenomenon." These are far-fetched claims that he doesn't adequately back up. 
But for all that is wrong with "Hegemony or Survival," reading Chomsky today is sobering and instructive for two reasons. First, his critiques have come to influence and reflect mainstream opinion elsewhere in the world; and second, the radicalism of the Bush administration has laid bare many of the structural defects in American foreign policy, defects that Chomsky has long assailed. 
Much blood was shed in the last century by United States forces or proxies in the name of righteous ends. Because every state justifies its wars on the grounds of self-defense or altruism, Chomsky is correct that any "profession of noble intent is predictable, and therefore carries no information." He is also right to object to the historical amnesia that American statesmen bring to their dealings with other states. He seethes at the hypocrisy of Donald Rumsfeld, Paul Wolfowitz and Colin Powell, who invoked Saddam Hussein's 1988 gassing attacks in order to help justify the recent war, but who did not see fit to explain why the Reagan administration (which they served as senior officials) doubled its aid to Hussein's regime after learning of the gassings. 
Chomsky also denounces the dependence of foreign policy elites on special interests. With African agriculture ravaged by American farm subsidies, with Israeli settlements unchallenged by Washington's elites and with campaign contributors to both parties landing mammoth paybacks in overseas contracts, it is certainly well past time to sound the alarm. 
And it is essential to demand, as Chomsky does, that a country with the might of the United States stop being so selective in applying its principles. We will not allow our sovereignty to be infringed by international treaty commitments in the areas of human rights or even arms control, but we demand that others should. We rebuff the complaints of foreigners about the 650 people who remain holed up in Guantanamo kennels, denied access to lawyers and family members, with not even their names released. Yet we expect others to take heed of our protests about due process. We have "official enemies" -- those whose police abuses, arms shipments and electoral thefts we eagerly expose (Zimbabwe, Burma, North Korea, Iran). But the sins of our allies in the war on terror (Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Israel, Pakistan, Russia, Uzbekistan) are met with "intentional ignorance." Although he is typically thin on prescriptions, Chomsky offers "one simple way to reduce the threat of terror: stop participating in it." 
Chomsky is wrong to think that individuals within the American government are not thinking seriously about the costs of alliances with repressive regimes; he is also wrong to suggest that it would be easy to get the balance right between liberty and security, or democracy and equality -- or to figure out what the hell to do about Pakistan. But he is right to demand that officials in Washington devote themselves more zealously to strengthening international institutions, curbing arms flows and advancing human rights. "It is easy to dismiss the world as 'irrelevant,' or consumed by 'paranoid anti-Americanism,' " he writes, "but perhaps not wise."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Henrik Drescher) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



89 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Online Auctions: Reducing Risks

BYLINE:  By BOB TEDESCHI; E-mail: tedeschi@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LAST year when Paige Pierson lost her job in the San Francisco Bay Area's dot-com contraction, she resolved not to abandon her travel passions.
 The auctions on eBay had been a constant source of entertainment and the occasional bargain in recent years, and being a dot-commer, Ms. Pierson knew of other Web sites that sold travel through auctions. So in February, while musing about how to introduce her newborn son, Logan, to her extended family in Munich, she ventured online, looking to match the click of her mouse with the clack of a virtual auctioneer's gavel. 
 Her first move was not to eBay, but to SkyAuction.com, a New York-based auction site for airline tickets, vacation packages, cruises and accommodations. There, she found one-way vouchers for flights on Lufthansa, up for bidding at $1, with no reserve. Ms. Pierson entered the bidding, and shortly thereafter walked away with the equivalent of a round-trip flight from San Francisco to Munich for about $300.
As one of a small but ardent group of online travel-auction fans, Ms. Pierson found that the well-publicized risk of online auctions can, with some care and flexibility, be far outweighed by the rewards. "It was pretty sweet, considering I was unemployed," said Ms. Pierson, who now works for Williams-Sonoma.
Flexibility is a watchword for travel auction fans. Most services up for bid may be used only during specific times, typically off-season dates that travel suppliers have had difficulty selling through traditional means. And because fraudulent travel auctions marred the early years of the Internet, individuals cannot sell airline tickets on most auction sites -- a generally positive development, but one that has also led to somewhat limited inventory at times.
For people who have no particular destination or date in mind, and for those who want to try to get lucky with cheap accommodations for a planned trip, auction sites are a logical detour in the usual click path.
According to Michael N. Hering, SkyAuction's chief executive, the company operates like many other discount travel sites online, in that it obtains travel inventory from a range of suppliers. The only twist is that SkyAuction offers each item starting at a bid of $1, with no reserve. If the winning bid is $2, the site must accept that, and eat its loss.
In fact, Mr. Hering says the company, which is privately held, loses money on 15 percent of the roughly 1,200 auctions it conducts each week. "But that's O.K.," he said, speaking by phone from the Trump Sonesta in Sunny Isles Beach, Fla., where he was negotiating for rooms for his site. "They'll come back because they know we're real, and they'll tell their friends about it."

Evolving Mix
SkyAuction's offerings have evolved over the past five years, from a heavy emphasis on airline deals to an evenly balanced mix of air, hotel, cruises and packages.
While SkyAuction offers no guarantee, it has a Better Business Bureau track record of resolving a majority of customer complaints to the customer's satisfaction. (Fewer than 90 complaints have been registered with the bureau in the past three years.) And since it is a growing business with much of that growth staked on its reputation, chances are good that consumers will find SkyAuction a reputable place.
Indeed, one reason Ms. Pierson strayed from eBay for her travel auctions was her fear that she might be cheated. But eBay has gone to great lengths to reduce travel auction fraud in the past two years.
Responding to customer concerns about travel fraud, eBay last year introduced a rule requiring all sellers of air, lodging, cruises and vacation packages to register with SquareTrade, a seller-verification and dispute-resolution company, which is privately owned. Before being permitted to list travel items, sellers must verify their company's name, contact information and location with SquareTrade (on the Web at www.squaretrade.com).

Proof Required
Furthermore, if the sellers are listing airline tickets, they must submit proof to SquareTrade that they are members of the Airlines Reporting Corporation, an industry trade group, or a similar travel association. Individuals are not qualified for A.R.C. membership; only airlines, corporate travel departments, industry suppliers and travel agents. And if sellers are listing lodging, they must prove they own the property or have a time-share membership.
Meena Ravella, senior manager for eBay's travel category, said that the site's travel sales have increased steadily since the SquareTrade relationship was formed. Roughly 5,000 travel offerings are on the site on a given day.
That said, even the SquareTrade seal does not completely eliminate risk. Last summer, for instance, an eBay seller who displayed the SquareTrade logo bilked thousands of computer buyers before he was caught by Salt Lake City police. And SquareTrade's chief executive, Steve Abernethy, admits that the screening process is not perfect. "We've created as many barriers as we could," he said. "On eBay, you've got to use a combination of common sense and new tools to avoid things."
Sarah Mastrianni, a Cordova, Tenn., ticket agent for Northwest Airlines, has been both a buyer and seller of travel on eBay -- as well as a near-victim of fraud. Last year, she ventured into eBay's travel listings while planning a trip to New York with her daughter. After weeks of casual searching, she found a potentially great deal on vouchers for a hotel suite at the Excelsior, on West 81st Street. She bought five vouchers at $99 a night, including tax, but not before contacting the seller, she said, "to establish a little trust."
Not long after Ms. Mastrianni returned home, she began looking into tickets for Walt Disney World on eBay, and bid on some. Her bids failed, and shortly thereafter she received several e-mail messages from people offering to sell Disney tickets for half the regular price. (The user names of eBay bidders are displayed on the Web site; eBay members can send e-mail messages to each other directly from the site.)
To complicate matters, the sellers had forged or misappropriated the user name of a seller with an excellent reputation. "The e-mails were from people from out of the country, which didn't fit with the user feedback," Ms. Mastrianni said. "I e-mailed a few of them looking for more information, and they never responded."
For those who have absolutely no stomach for even the diminished risk of eBay auctions, and who want an alternative to SkyAuction.com, LuxuryLink.com is a good choice.
The site, which sells high-end cruises, packages, hotels and first- and business-class airline tickets, lists about 500 auctions weekly. Unlike SkyAuction, LuxuryLink sets a minimum bid, still low enough to save customers about 40 percent over retail rates, said Diane McDavitt, LuxuryLink's president. 
Among recent listings was a "spa week" for two at an ocean-front room in St. Lucia, with all meals, alcohol and activities for $2,725. The retail price was $5,000. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (95%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); CRUISES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); WEB SITES (76%); AIR FARES (74%); TRAVEL AGENTS (74%); TICKET SALES (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (56%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); LHA (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



90 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE FORMER PRESIDENT; 
Clinton Enjoys Role as Adviser in Chief

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
He left office nearly three years ago, but Bill Clinton, the youngest ex-president in modern times, is still the go-to guy in Democratic politics.
 All of the party's major candidates for president say they call on Mr. Clinton for advice. They say the former president always seems eager to talk politics, and one says the former president sometimes seems to relish the calls as an excuse not to work on his memoirs. 
 "He said to me once, 'I shouldn't be spending this much time, I've got to be writing my book,' " this candidate said. "But if you get him at home or in the office and he's not traveling, he has the time. And he loves it." 
The candidatessaid they were seeking advice on tactical and substantive matters. As they tussle over the direction of the party, they are also consulting former Clinton aides to help flesh out their policy proposals. Robert E. Rubin, Mr. Clinton's treasury secretary, and Gene Sperling, a senior economic adviser in the Clinton White House, are particularly popular.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who calls himself the former president's ideological heir, said, "He's brilliant, both on policy and politics."
"We'll talk about where we are on some issue, and maybe this is the way to deal with it," Mr. Lieberman said.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt said Mr. Clinton had helped with "the whole construct" of his campaign.
Mr. Gephardt added: "He always said to me, 'One of your advantages is your experience,' and he said, 'That's something you obviously need to talk about and make an asset, not a negative.' "
When Gen. Wesley K. Clark, a fellow Arkansan, entered the campaign in September, the re-emergence of Clinton loyalists like Bruce Lindsey fueled speculation that Mr. Clinton and his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, were backing General Clark as a way to stop another candidate, Howard Dean. General Clark said the Clintons had encouraged him to run, but the Clintons have said they would not endorse anyone in the primaries.
Moreover, the Clintons have said positive things about many of the candidates, leaving General Clark to compete for a public blessing. His campaign did some elaborate planning last month to have Mr. Clinton issue a one-sentence tribute to General Clark to rebut Slobodan Milosevic at the former Yugoslav president's war-crimes trial in the Hague.
General Clark said that Mr. Clinton had helped him make the transition from the military to politics. "The biggest thing is in terms of dealing with people who question you," General Clark said.
He said Mr. Clinton had also advised him that "you have to have positive energy in the campaign, you have to fight hard but you don't want to get negative."
A Clinton friend, Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, the television producer who with her husband, Harry Thomason, made the campaign video "The Man From Hope" for Mr. Clinton in 1992, has made the similar "American Son" for General Clark.
Last week, the Clark campaign became the first with a commercial that included a picture of Mr. Clinton, though Mr. Gephardt noted that he was the first to refer to Mr. Clinton in a commercial, in September.
When Mr. Lieberman heard about the Clark commercial, he sounded a bit miffed that he had been beaten to the punch.
"Has President Clinton now become public property so that we can do it without his permission?" Mr. Lieberman asked reporters in a conference call. 
Even Dr. Dean, who has made statements perceived as critical of Mr. Clinton, mentioned the former president and his wife in an interview: "I talk to both him and the senator fairly frequently."
Dr. Dean added: "Sometimes they call me, but it's usually me calling them. Sometimes I ask Hillary for advice on how she would respond to some stuff. He and I talk about strategy and the campaign."
Three of the candidates, Dr. Dean, General Clark and Carol Moseley Braun, followed in Mr. Clinton's footsteps last week, going to South Carolina for the New Year's retreat of movers and shakers known as the Renaissance Weekend. 
"Clinton remains a protean force in the Democratic Party," said Thomas Mann, an expert on politics at the Brookings Institution.
"All of the candidates would like to emulate his success and to contrast the economic success of the 90's with what Bush has done," Mr. Mann said.
But as Al Gore found in 2000, the Clinton legacy is complex, and running with it can be just as perilous as running from it. Polls show that Mr. Clinton retains enormous influence with the traditional Democratic base but causes consternation among swing voters and independents.
For that reason, the Democratic candidates are more likely to try to trade on the Clinton brand during the next few months of Democratic primaries than during the general election campaign. 
There are multiple theories about the role that Mr. Clinton, who declined to be interviewed for this article, is playing in the primaries.
Mr. Mann said that he had been less kingmaker and more "kibitzer in chief." Once a nominee became clear, he said, Mr. Clinton would take the lead in trying to unify the party.
Conservative commentators, among others, have said that Mr. Clinton is trying to steer the party toward a weak candidate who will lose to President Bush to clear the way for Senator Clinton in 2008.
The candidates, Mr. Clinton's former aides and other political observers do not dispute the idea that Senator Clinton is on the launching pad for the presidency in 2008. Though many said they had perceived Mr. Clinton as neutral, they were also watching to see if he put his thumb on the scales for or against anyone.
"The question is not whether he will endorse, because he won't," a senior adviser to one candidate said. "The question is whether he will be using intermediaries to send signals."
There seemed to be signals last month when some of Mr. Clinton's former aides publicly questioned Dr. Dean's candidacy, saying the former governor of Vermont was too angry and seemed to reject Mr. Clinton's moving the Democratic Party to the political center. The extent of Mr. Clinton's concern about Dr. Dean is not clear, but some of his former aides said that Mr. Clinton would do what he could to help the eventual nominee against Mr. Bush.
"It's more important to him to beat Bush than who beats him," said a former official in the Clinton White House, who noted that the personal strains between the Bush family and Mr. Clinton run deep.
"He likes Dean fine," this person said. "The only issue is whether he is the right guy to beat Bush."
Dr. Dean stirred his party's ire last month when he delivered a domestic policy speech in which he called for "a new social compact for working families" and seemed to suggest that the Clinton era was too accommodating to the Republicans.
Rivals and party moderates swooped down on Dr. Dean, denouncing what they said was a cheap shot at the first Democrat who had been re-elected since Franklin D. Roosevelt and who had presided over the longest economic expansion in American history.
Dr. Dean said in an interview that his rivals had twisted his remarks. "The other guys were so desperate, they just made that up out of whole cloth," he said. "There is no distance between me and Bill Clinton." 
But Dr. Dean said Democrats had to distinguish themselves from Mr. Bush. "Centrism was fine, but you can't keep moving right," he said.
Some thought Dr. Dean had learned a lesson.
"This was a fight that Howard Dean doesn't need and doesn't want," said William A. Galston, who was Mr. Clinton's deputy assistant for domestic policy and is now a professor of public policy at the University of Maryland who supports Mr. Lieberman for president.
"It's one thing to take on the Congressional Democrats and to appeal to the perception among Democratic activists that their opposition to Bush was too tepid," Mr. Galston said. "Bill Clinton never persuaded the activist wing of the Democratic Party that his was the way to go. But it's a very different thing to take on a successful, two-term Democratic president."
And yet, after calling Mr. Clinton to clear the air, Dr. Dean came back a few days later and criticized Terry McAuliffe, Mr. Clinton's close friend and hand-picked chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Dr. Dean suggested that Mr. McAuliffe was too weak to have prevented the Democratic contest from becoming vituperative and compared him unfavorably with a previous chairman, Ron Brown.
Dr. Dean, who subsequently called Mr. McAuliffe to clear the air, said, "I made those remarks mostly out of frustration, and I shouldn't have compared him to Ron Brown."
He added, "I think Terry's trying to be helpful."
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts used Dr. Dean's attack on Mr. McAuliffe as an opportunity to burnish his own Clinton bona fides, though he and Mr. Clinton were never particularly close.
Senator Kerry cited Mr. Clinton's warning to the candidates that they had to get together after the primaries, and added: "It's time Howard Dean realized this campaign isn't about him, it's about our country. It's time he rereads that page from the Clinton lesson book."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Democratic presidential candidates have sought advice from Bill Clinton, who is still eager to talk politics. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); WAR CRIMES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (51%) UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



91 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: For G.I.'s, Pride in War Efforts But Doubts About Iraq's Future 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
American soldiers, from privates to generals, say they believe that their fight to restore security and stability in Iraq is winnable in the long run, but that an American military presence will be required for years to keep the country from falling into chaos. 
 In nearly 100 interviews and conversations in the last four weeks, soldiers across Iraq expressed a complex set of emotions and sentiments toward their rebuilding mission, now entering its ninth month. 
 They take enormous pride in having ousted Saddam Hussein and restored a semblance of normal life for many of the 25 million people in this war-battered nation. But they also voice a mix of pity, disdain and admiration for Iraqis and question what the future holds for this country and the military presence here. To succeed, many soldiers and commanders say, sizable numbers of American forces will have to remain here for three years or more. 
Morale is generally high, but the guerrilla attacks that kill or maim soldiers have prompted many to endure their daily patrols by seeking refuge in dark humor. As one sergeant in the First Armored Division in Baghdad said recently, between drags on a cigarette, "Time flies when you think you're going to die." 
There are good weeks and bad weeks, "like a roller coaster," as Brig. Gen. Frank G. Helmick, an assistant commander of the 101st Airborne Division, put it.
Soldiers are sensitive to the growing ambivalence -- if not outright hostility -- among some Iraqis to the American occupation, but say there are few alternatives. "They're glad Saddam is gone, but they're not sure they want us to stay either," said Cpl. Chris Ellis, 33, of Hopewell, Ala., who drives a Stryker combat vehicle. "But we're going to have to stick it out. If we don't, it'll be worse than it was before." 
Senior commanders say they are mindful of the challenge in restoring security and stability, and in preparing for an Iraqi government to take control in July. "I'm not trying to win their hearts and minds," said Brig. Gen. Mark Hertling, an assistant commander of the First Armored Division in Baghdad. "We're in a race against time to win the trust and confidence of the people."
Since the end of major combat on May 1, American forces have been fighting not only a shadowy insurgency that carries out hit-and-run strikes with rockets and remote-controlled roadside bombs, but also criminal operations -- counterfeiting, prostitution, carjacking gangs and kidnapping -- that officers here say are helping finance the attacks. 
Restoring public services is a slow process. Unemployment remains over 50 percent in most of Iraq. Electricity is still intermittent in many neighborhoods in Baghdad. As insurgents increasingly use roadside bombs as a weapon, often killing more Iraqis than Americans, ordinary citizens are accusing soldiers of bringing this new plague upon them. 
"The continuing welcome is dependent on making progress every single day, in terms of basic services, in terms of improving electricity flow, in terms of solving the fuel crisis, in terms of very basic needs -- ration cards, schools, student-to-teacher ratio, roads, potholes, wells and then repair of basic infrastructure," said Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, commander of the 101st Airborne Division in Mosul. 
"We're competing in a sense with this man-in-the-moon metaphor, which is: 'You Americans can put a man on the moon, why can't you give me a job with a salary right now? Why can't you snap your fingers and produce 24-hour power?' " 
Morale also shifts with the casualty toll. Casualties waned in early December, but after the capture of Mr. Hussein on Dec. 13, attacks spiked again over the holidays, killing more than 14 American soldiers and wounding more than 110. 
Security is a crucial barometer to long-term success. "If you don't have security, you can't bring back the economic base, and the enemy is still trying to prevent that," General Hertling said. "If we're being held to a standard that the only way to win is have no more bombs go off, we won't live up to that. Our standard is to reduce them every day. This is the hardest thing I've ever done." 
As a new force of about 110,000 soldiers prepares to begin replacing the 130,000 who have been here for a year, commanders say the size and duration of the American military presence depend on the threat and how quickly Iraqi security forces effectively assume control. 
Privately, the same soldiers and officers say American forces will be needed here for at least three to five years. "That's not unrealistic," Capt. Matthew J. Konz, a company commander with the 101st Airborne, responsible for quelling unrest in the town of Hammam al Ali, south of Mosul, said when asked if that estimate was reasonable. 
Commanders see morale among most of the troops here as high, largely because most units are counting down their last months in Iraq, or have just arrived. "Are they going to tell you they're glad to be here? No," said Maj. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, commander of the Fourth Infantry Division. "I'd rather be home with my family, too. But I think they're getting some satisfaction in what they're doing." 
But soldiers expressed a variety of views. "Everyone's afraid of dying," said Sgt. Latonya Williams, 27, with the 64th Forward Supply Battalion of Fort Carson, Colo., a single mother from Houston with a 2-year-old son at home with her mother. "We're not God. But we signed up for this." 
Sgt. Mercury Goodman, 27, of San Luis Obispo, Calif., a Fourth Division infantryman, disagreed: "I think we're just targets. I don't think we're doing any good." 
But most soldiers and commanders say they have seen a difference since American forces toppled Mr. Hussein's government. Intelligence officers believe that continual raids have put a dent in the insurgents' finances and in their ability to recruit attackers. Daily life is flourishing for Iraqis in many places. 
"Things are a lot better here," said First Lt. Matthew Cannon, 25, of St. Petersburg, Fla., second in command of a company in the Second Armored Cavalry Regiment, which patrols the predominantly Shiite section of Baghdad called Sadr City. "Restaurants and kebab stands have opened. People are everywhere on the streets. Kids are playing soccer. But we still get some thumbs down."
Sometimes, the reward is more personal. "When a doctor comes up to you and says, 'Thank you for my freedom,' what do you say to that?" said Captain Konz, the company commander with the 101st Airborne. 
The capture of Mr. Hussein has prompted more Iraqis to share information with American forces, commanders say, and has helped to erode a psychology of fear that prevailed during his rule. "I know this was important to a lot of people who didn't have the power to do anything about it," said Col. James B. Hickey, commander of the Fourth Infantry Division's First Brigade, which led the raid to capture Mr. Hussein. 
Still, there is mistrust and suspicion on both sides. Few soldiers know Arabic or have much direct contact with Iraqi civilians, whom many soldiers derisively call "hajjis." Many soldiers have a sense that even their Iraqi allies cannot be completely trusted. "We watch what we say around our translators and the Iraqi police," said Capt. Tim Zamora, 34, a company commander in the Second Armored Cavalry Regiment. 
Soldiers say they know Mr. Hussein's 35-year rule squelched personal initiative. Still, they express frustration that Iraqis are not taking the lead to rebuild the country's infrastructure and economy -- or even clean up trash and rubble. 
"Sometimes I don't know what to think," said Staff Sgt. William Persuhn, a platoon sergeant in the Second Armored Cavalry Regiment. "Now they have a little bit of democracy, they're learning how to use it. But it doesn't seem like they want to help themselves." 
The new Iraqi security services -- from the police to a militia -- are growing steadily, toward a goal of 220,000 total members by later this year. As might be expected, there are growing pains -- with new police forces learning concepts new to them, like neighborhood patrols and criminal interrogations. Deeper barriers persist too. 
"Tribal loyalty trumps whatever oath they took as police officers," said Col. Frederick B. Hodges, who commands the First Brigade of the 101st Airborne Division south of Mosul. "They're not going to shoot or arrest someone from a different tribe for fear of retribution. It's not totally hopeless, but it'll take time." 
Perhaps the most difficult task for the American troops is not to alienate civilians with their tactics. One night recently, First Lt. Leonardo Flor's platoon from the new Stryker Brigade conducted a raid against a group suspected of recruiting insurgents. At the suspects' house, soldiers wearing night-vision goggles first tried to batter down the front door and, when that failed, blew it open with eight shotgun blasts. Soldiers poured in, rifles at the ready, streaming into bedrooms.
More than 20 women and children were herded into one room, under guard. Half a dozen men were put in another. In the end, the raid turned up only a couple of World War II-era rifles and some sheaves of papers. 
Lieutenant Flor, 23, a West Point graduate, ordered his men to tidy up. He reviewed the damage -- a broken television and doors broken by the shotgun blasts -- pulled a wad of bills from his pocket, peeled off $120, and handed it to one of the Iraqi men. The dazed man signed a receipt for the reparations, and the soldiers trooped out into the dark, cold morning. 
The platoon's soldiers voiced disappointment at what they felt was becoming a series of dry holes. Lieutenant Flor gave a pep talk, praising their execution of the mission, even if the intelligence was wrong. 
Since May, the military has paid out more than $2 million in damage and injury claims from Iraqis. 
Later, Lieutenant Flor expressed a concern echoed by many commanders. "There are only so many missions when you bust into people's homes and separate families," he said, "before you start causing problems that didn't exist."

GRAPHIC: Photos: FIRST LT. MATTHEW CANNON -- Second in command of a company, Second Armored Cavalry Regiment. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora, for The New York Times); COL. JAMES B. HICKEY -- The commander of the Fourth Infantry Division's First Brigade. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); CARJACKING (68%); HIT & RUN (63%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



92 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Recovery Vindicates Fed's Actions 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, claimed victory on Saturday in the Fed's three-year battle to limit the damage from the 1990's stock market bubble.
 Speaking to an annual conference of economists here, Mr. Greenspan suggested that the current economic recovery had vindicated the Fed's decision not to try to prevent the bubble but rather to react to its aftermath. 
 "There appears to be enough evidence, at least tentatively, to conclude that our strategy of addressing the bubble's consequences, rather than the bubble itself, has been successful," Mr. Greenspan told the American Economic Association's annual meeting.
"Despite the stock market plunge," he said, "terrorist attacks, corporate scandals and wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, we experienced an exceptionally mild recession, even milder than that of a decade earlier."
The remarks served as further evidence that many Fed officials believe that the economy is stronger than it has been at any point since it fell into recession in early 2001.
Although the economy has grown rapidly in recent months, the Fed's benchmark short-term interest rate remains at an an almost 50-year low of 1 percent, but analysts expect it to rise this year. 
Though economists widely praise the Fed's aggressive cutting of the rate since January 2001, Mr. Greenspan's sunny views are not universally held.
Some economists note that while the recent recession caused only a slight decline in economic output, the loss of jobs was the worst in 20 years. These economists say that even without raising the benchmark rate more than the Fed did in the late 1990's, Mr. Greenspan might have been able to restrain the bubble and its painful aftermath by speaking about it more forcefully or by tightening borrowing requirements for investors.
The Fed's rate directly affects the rates on many credit cards as well as small business and other loans and indirectly changes mortgage rates. By reducing its rate, the Fed makes borrowing less expensive and encourages spending by households and businesses. It raises the rate when officials worry that the economy is growing rapidly enough to cause inflation to accelerate.
In his remarks, which reviewed the Fed's monetary policy since the 1980's, Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that the Fed had not been infallible in recent years.
Some Fed officials had argued for even quicker rate cuts than Mr. Greenspan had wanted in 2002 and early last year. Those officials said that the economic excesses of the 1990's were still weighing on the economy. 
The setting of interest rates is "an especially humbling activity," Mr. Greenspan said. "Uncertainty characterized virtually every meeting of the Fed's policy committee."
He added that from time to time, the committee "made decisions, some to move, some not to move, that we came to regret." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TERRORISM (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); LAYOFFS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); SCANDALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 



93 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Breaking Ranks; 
Shrink Government, the Right Tells the Right

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SUE MYRICK set her sights high when she came to Washington in the heady days after the election of 1994. Republicans had reclaimed control of the House after 40 years in the political wilderness, and Representative Myrick was eager to eliminate government programs, balance the budget and cut overall spending-- in short, to shrink big government.
 Today, with her party in charge of both Congress and the White House, Mrs. Myrick would seem perfectly positioned to achieve those goals. Instead, she and her fellow fiscal conservatives are still fighting to reduce government spending -- a battle that pits them against their own party and president. 
 "We've put up with this spending, very frankly, for the last few years and none of us feel very good about it," said Mrs. Myrick, a North Carolina Republican. "It's very difficult when you have a president of your same party, if they aren't as fiscally conservative as you would like them to be."
These are not easy times for lawmakers who hold dear the notion that, as Ronald Reagan used to say, government should get off the people's backs. The balanced budget of the 1990's, which Mrs. Myrick considers a high point of her Congressional career -- is gone, replaced by a record federal deficit. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, complained earlier this year that Congress was spending money like "drunken sailors."
Rather than shrink the role of the federal bureaucracy, fiscal conservatives say President Bush has expanded it, in education, agriculture and through the $400 billion, 10-year Medicare prescription drug bill. 
"At this point, I think that conservatives sold out their small government philosophy and replaced it with a philosophy of whatever will get them re-elected," said Brian M. Riedl, a budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization. "Neither party is committed to smaller government and less spending. Those who are still standing for fiscal conservatism are frustrated."
That frustration is starting to boil over, and as Mr. Bush prepares his budget for 2005, fiscal conservatives on Capitol Hill are "searching for ways to stop the spending spree," Mr. Riedl said.
Several proposals are floating around. In October, Representative Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican, introduced the Family Budget Protection Act, which would require Congress to meet budget targets to eliminate the federal deficit in five years. Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, wants to reform the government's accounting practices to provide a more accurate picture of federal spending.
 "It's safe to say that there is tremendous dissatisfaction and a kind of dawning on people that Bush is not interested in smaller government," said Edward H. Crane, president of the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization. 
Mrs. Myrick, who is chairwoman of the Republican Study Committee, a group of 96 House members committed to fiscal conservatism, said the committee was planning a retreat in Annapolis, Md., at the end of this month to draft a strategy that will then be presented to the entire House Republican caucus. Another study committee member, Representative Gil Gutknecht of Minnesota, says he is optimistic that fellow Republicans will be open to their ideas.
Mr. Bush, of course, has faced a series of events -- recession, the bursting of the stock market bubble and, most importantly, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 -- that have pushed up federal spending, particularly on defense and homeland security. Joshua B. Bolten, the White House budget director, says growth has been modest in other areas, just 3 percent in discretionary spending between 2003 and 2004.
"I think the president has actually hewed closely to conservative fiscal principles," Mr. Bolten said.
But Mr. Riedl calculates the growth at 9 percent, not 3 percent, and says federal spending in 2003 exceeded $20,000 per household for the first time since World War II. During the 1990's, he says, it held steady at slightly less than $18,000. 
 "There is a growing frustration within the House caucus -- and it's palpable -- of members' saying, 'We can't continue to call ourselves fiscal conservatives with big deficits and growing entitlements,"' Mr. Gutknecht said. "I think the events surrounding Sept. 11 and other international events clouded our vision, but I think those clouds are starting to clear."
But some say the Republican vision was clouded long before the 2001 terrorist attacks. Mr. Riedl of the Heritage Foundation harks back to 1995, when Congressional Republicans shut down the federal government over a budget impasse with President Bill Clinton. The shutdown came off as petty and mean-spirited, and voters blamed the Republicans, led by former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. 
"When the government shutdown hurt them politically," Mr. Riedl said, "they declared spending cuts to be the new third rail of Republican politics." 
In a recent article in the Cato Policy Report, Mr. Crane goes back even farther, to President Reagan's 1984 re-election effort and its feel-good "Morning in America" campaign, which, he argues, "missed an incredible opportunity to capitalize on an enormously popular president by laying out specific programs to shrink the federal government." 
But Mr. Crane blames President Bush for "the philosophical collapse of the G.O.P." He complains that Mr. Bush ran for office in 2000 without calling for a single spending cut-- a point that Mr. Bolten, the White House budget director, does not dispute.
"The president campaigned as conservative who favors limited government but activism in those areas where government is going to spend money and has responsibilities," Mr. Bolten said. "I think he has followed through on the philosophy on which he campaigned, which I think is a good conservative philosophy."
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Bush's brand of Republicanism has put some lawmakers in a bind, caught between their loyalty to the president, their party's Congressional leaders and their fiscal principles. Mrs. Myrick, for instance, voted for the Medicare bill, even though she said she was uneasy about it. Mr. Gutknecht was among nine Republicans who voted against it, despite relentless pressure from the Republican leadership. So was Representative Marilyn Musgrave, a freshman Republican from Colorado whose first telephone call from President Bush was a plea for support on Medicare.
"To have to say no is tough," she said, adding, "But it's easier to look yourself in the mirror."
Democrats, meanwhile, are enjoying the divisions among Republicans. "All of the conservatives who spent so much time in the 80's and 90's inveighing against the deficit are demonstrating the worst kind of hypocrisy," said Howard Wolfson, a Democratic campaign strategist. 
Yet even Mr. Wolfson conceded that the deficit is unlikely to make a compelling issue for Democrats during the 2004 campaign. And Mr. Bush's conservative critics are aware that they have nowhere else to go. Mr. Crane, for one, laments the absence of a conservative primary opponent for Mr. Bush. Already, he is looking forward to the next presidential race.
"There is going to be a real battle for the soul of the Republican party in 2008," he predicted, "because the free-market types, the limited government types, realize they have been sold a bill of goods with Bush. And they are not going out without a fight."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the frustration of Congressional conservatives over their inability to reduce government spending misstated the number of House Republicans who voted against the Medicare prescription drug bill. It was 25; 9 was the number of Republican senators who voted against it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Republican Representatives Gil Gutknecht and Marilyn Musgrave voted against the Medicare bill. (pg. 3) Drawings (Illustrations by Wesley Bedrosian)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: SUE WILKINS MYRICK (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MARILYN N MUSGRAVE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); DAVID W CRANE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004 #053T040111SL04A01# 



94 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Year of Spending Dangerously 

 BODY:
Investors made 2003 the year of living dangerously, shaking off wartime concerns and disclosures of scandals corrupting the very heart of the marketplace -- from the New York Stock Exchange to the mutual fund industry -- to break a three-year losing streak. All major stock indices registered their first annual gains since 1999. 
 The new year's first piece of economic news suggests that the ongoing recovery continues to gather strength, and should bolster investor confidence. Far surpassing economists' expectations, an influential monthly index of nationwide manufacturing activity posted its highest number in two decades in December. The report augurs well for the economy's chances of reducing unemployment in coming months. 
 Jobs have been hard to come by early on in this recovery. That's not unusual, as businesses are able to meet a surge in consumer demand with their unsold inventories, or by tapping unused capacity. Moreover, despite a fall in the nation's unemployment rate to 5.9 percent from 6.4 percent in the second half of 2003, technology-driven productivity growth and the exporting of many jobs overseas have raised concerns that this time a frothy economy might not lead to a labor market in which workers feel secure about their prospects and see wages rise briskly.
Such concerns seem a bit premature, but a lot will depend on how Congress and the Bush administration act in the new year, both on domestic spending and on trade. The extent to which mediocre employment gains can catch up to a boatload of more stellar economic readings on overall growth, corporate profits, productivity and interest rates will be the big economic and political question of the new year.
Indeed, the employment outlook is fundamental to keeping the recovery on track. When people fear for their jobs, they cut back on spending, which may be one reason holiday sales were far from spectacular.
A major wild card for 2004 is the weakening dollar, which continues to hit record lows against the euro. The currency's troubles provide an immediate boost to American manufacturing by making our goods cheaper overseas, but they present a series of long-term threats to the economic recovery. The United States, after all, was about $1 trillion in the red last year, when you add the nation's current-account deficit (which includes trade and financial flows) to the federal government's huge budget deficit.
A plummeting dollar could help narrow our trade gap, but it also means foreigners will demand a higher interest payment to finance those deficits. That could add to pressure on the Federal Reserve later in the year to start raising the historically low short-term interest rates. (Longer-term rates have already started creeping up some.) The central bank has felt little pressure to move until now because the unemployment rate is still high and acts as a brake on inflation. The prospect of a tight labor market later in the year, added to the strain of a weak dollar and high deficits, could force the Fed to act far more aggressively than it would like to in an election year.
The Bush administration and Congress could have greatly enhanced the economy's prospects if they had been more responsible in their spending. This Republican government seems to think that it can cut taxes and increase government programs without consequence, and that there is no limit to the willingness of China and others, mostly in Asia, to finance our society's lavish lifestyle by buying up our i.o.u.'s -- our Treasury notes. These buyers have not been getting such a great deal of late. But much like a department store peddling credit, they are eager to lend America money so that we can continue purchasing their goods. 
Given our economy's growing dependence on China and other trading partners, Washington policy makers would be wise to abstain from any protectionist outbursts aimed at them. Unfortunately, in an election year, asking for that may be as unrealistic as asking for a return to fiscal prudence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); MUTUAL FUNDS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); EURO (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



95 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: With the Vote in Georgia, a Dynamic Young Leader and a New Era 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: KUTAISI, Georgia, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
A bouquet of red roses lay beside the clear plastic ballot box in polling station 66 here on Sunday, and nobody seemed to mind that the emblem of Georgia's energetic new president was already in place before the first vote had been cast.
 Almost everybody in this troubled nation voted for Mikhail Saakashvili, the 36-year-old lawyer who six weeks ago led what he called the Rose Revolution -- the peaceful ouster of Eduard A. Shevardnadze from the office he had held for 12 years. 
 At a news conference after a preliminary count had pronounced him the overwhelming winner, Mr. Saakashvili outlined the huge tasks he faced and warned, "You cannot do everything in one day. We will go step by step." 
An independent survey of voters leaving the polls put his winning total at about 86 percent. The Central Election Commission said that in this nation of close to 5 million people, 1.7 million had voted, a number Mr. Saakashvili said was the highest in Georgia's history.
In a performance that showcased his charisma, the young new president answered questions in rapid-fire English, Russian and French, as well as Georgian -- and then introduced his popular Dutch wife, who did the same.
"We have got a very important mandate from the people to clean up Georgia, to make it peaceful and prosperous, to make Georgia efficient, investor-friendly, to consolidate power," Mr. Saakashvili said.
He added, "I realize how big a burden I have taken on my shoulders and how big a burden all of us have taken on our shoulders."
Thirteen years after the Soviet Union collapsed and Georgia became independent, this mountainous nation rich in fruits, vineyards and Black Sea beaches has fallen further than any other former Soviet republic.
Its economy has stagnated from corruption, mismanagement and the loss of former Soviet markets. Joblessness and poverty have become the norm. A breakdown in government services has left many without heat or electricity this winter.
Two large regions have declared themselves independent and did not take part in the vote on Sunday. A third, led by a regional chief who had supported Mr. Shevardnadze in the final days, set up border checkpoints and mostly boycotted the election.
Strategically situated on Russia's southern border and with a vital pipeline due to begin carrying oil from the Caspian Sea to Turkey across its territory next year, Georgia is a pawn in a big-power rivalry between Russia and the United States.
A seven-hour drive across Georgia's main east-west highway on Wednesday was a disheartening tour of vacant factories, barren countryside, abandoned gas stations and half-empty villages where residents hawk shanks of meat by the roadside, signals of a collapsed economy.
The second largest city in Georgia, Kutaisi, about 200 miles west of Tbilisi, has lost much of its industry and population as workers travel to Russia to find jobs.
The popular uprising last month that followed a parliamentary election tainted by fraud has brought a burst of hope to Georgia, symbolized by the red roses handed to Mr. Saakashvili when he meets the public.
"I'm sure he'll be successful as president," said Mikhail Kintsurashvili, 85, a retiree, as he went to vote. "He takes things very seriously, and he's very motivated."
But as he himself said, Mr. Saakashvili must now justify people's hopes by improving their lives.
"If he tries, he can do it," said Dato Bashidze, 40, who like many Georgians supports himself by doing one thing and another. "He'll have a little time. That's why we elected him, to get to work on our demands."
Initial reports from monitors were that the voting had been markedly free of the manipulation that characterized elections under Mr. Shevardnadze. Mr. Saakashvili said the results in a handful of precincts where procedural violations had been reported would be invalidated.
He attributed his overwhelming victory to the absence of serious challengers in the six-candidate field. He has formed a governing alliance with his two partners in leading the popular uprising, Zhurab Zvania and Nino Burdzhanadze.
Mr. Saakashvili asserted Sunday that Mr. Shevardnadze could keep his armed guard and remain in his home. But he said he did not want to talk about the former president. "Mr. Shevardnadze stays in the past for Georgia with many mistakes, and I would also say with many crimes," he said.
Asked at a polling station whether he had voted for the man who had driven him from power, Mr. Shevardnadze smiled an enigmatic smile and said, "You guessed my choice."
"He is young, he has a lot of energy, and is well educated," Mr. Shevardnadze said, and then added: "He should talk less and work more. Enough of populism. There is a lot to be done."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mikhail Saakashvili, 36, above, with the symbol of the revolution that led to the ouster of Eduard A. Shevardnadze. At right, a family toasts with wine in their home in Tbilisi, which features a campaign poster of Mr. Saakashvili. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) Map of Georgia highlighting Kutaisi: Kutaisi has lost much of its industry as workers seek jobs in Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); BOYCOTTS (61%); LAWYERS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) GEORGIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



96 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Trenton May Face $5 Billion Budget Gap 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
The year is beginning with signs of economic recovery, but when the new Legislature convenes this month it will confront a budget season that New Jersey officials say will be the most desperate in years.
 It is a crisis that everyone in Trenton long expected but barely mentioned in the legislative campaign last fall. For the 2005 fiscal year, which begins July 1, the state faces a shortfall that could amount to one-fifth of the total budget. And the last two budgets, patched together with elaborate effort to avoid increases in the sales or income taxes, exhausted obvious one-time fixes. 
 "Of the four budgets we've done, this is the toughest," the state treasurer, John E. McCormac, said. "A lot of easy solutions have been taken. We've cut the budget three years in a row, so the fourth year for the same reason gets a lot harder."
Mr. McCormac declined to put a number to the expected deficit before Gov. James E. McGreevey presents the budget on Feb. 24, but in an analysis quietly circulated among legislators in November, the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services said the gap could reach $5 billion.
New Jersey's shortfall is "pretty huge," said Nicholas Johnson, the director of the statefiscal project at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group in Washington. In a survey by the center that accounted for about half the states, New Jersey was second only to California in the size of its projected deficit for the 2005 fiscal year as a percentage of its general fund. 
And in finding a gap of 17 percent in New Jersey, the center used a conservative estimate of $4 billion for the deficit, Mr. Johnson noted. 
Mr. McCormac said the current fiscal year should bring an end to a two-year decline in receipts from the three major taxes -- personal income, corporate income and sales tax -- that together account for two-thirds of state revenue. Especially encouraging is a recovery in income-tax withholding, he said, "which means people are working." 
But much of the revenue that closed the budget gap this year and last has been exhausted. This year's $24 billion budget relied on the last money, $1.3 billion, the state could borrow against future receipts from the national tobacco settlement, and on more than $500 million allotted New Jersey in a federal aid package that is unlikely to be renewed. 
"Given the loss of those sources," Mr. McCormac said, "even if we had a billion in growth we'd still be a billion short." Corporate tax collections are also expected to decline in 2005 as some provisions of the overhaul enacted two years ago expire. 
In addition, in balancing this year's budget, the legislature tapped some of the more politically palatable tax sources, imposing new charges on Atlantic City gamblers and giving New Jersey the nation's highest state cigarette tax. Now the options are fewer.
At the same time, under current mandates and salary and benefit formulas, state spending would rise about $3 billion next year, mostly in health-related costs, Mr. McCormac said. 
The incoming Senate Republican leader, Leonard Lance, who is a budget committee member, dismissed the administration's protests about rising costs. "If my personal budget at home grew unchecked, I would be in bankruptcy inside a year, so that argument is not persuasive," Senator Lance said. 
The state has already cut spending on property-tax relief, eliminating NJ Saver rebates to households earning more than $200,000 a year and then, in a difficult compromise last year, cutting the rebates by half. The state has also frozen aid to school districts and municipalities for two years, putting pressure on local property-tax payers and pressure on legislators to resume annual increases. 
On the revenue side, one proposal sure to reappear is a tax increase for high earners, generally known as the millionaire's tax. Last year, the Fairness Alliance, a group of about 100 labor and social welfare organizations, campaigned unsuccessfully for a plan to raise the rates on incomes starting at $400,000 a year. This year, according to the architect of the plan, Jon Shure, the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal research organization in Trenton, the Fairness Alliance will propose a more far-reaching increase, though he said it would not affect more than 5 percent of taxpayers. 
While the Democrats are taking control of the Senate and tightening their grip on the Assembly in the new Legislature, which will convene Jan. 13, Mr. Shure, a Democrat, noted that many Democratic legislators opposed his plan last year and some Republicans were receptive to it. 
Some Democrats, in the Legislature and in the McGreevey administration, say a tax increase on high incomes, especially if it is limited to those over $1 million, stands a better chance this year. But publicly, at least, the governor continues to reject income tax increases. 
"He'll approach this the way he has approached the last two budgets," Juliet Johnson, a spokeswoman for Mr. McGreevey, said. "He's seeking to balance by controlling spending but not by raising the sales or income tax. "
Mr. Johnson of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said New Jersey's predicament was largely attributable to the state's aversion to taxes. Most states were more willing to enact large tax increases a year or two ago, rather than postponing the pain, he said, adding, "It's like pulling off a Band-Aid real fast."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John E. McCormac, New Jersey's treasurer, says the process of cutting the state budget for the fourth year in a row is not easy. (Photo by Christopher Barth) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SALES TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



97 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Despite Signs of Economic Recovery, States' Budgets Are Still Reeling 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER; Reporting for this article was contributed by Maureen Balleza, Ariel Hart, James C. McKinley Jr., Jo Napolitano and Stacey Stowe.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
After three consecutive years of dismal fiscal news at the state level, officials are beginning to detect signs that the worst may be over. But state budgets will continue to be stressed by slow job growth and rapidly rising health care costs, and battles in state capitals over taxing and spending will continue to rage, analysts say.
 The growing national economy and the rising stock market have begun to be felt in the states; tax revenues in most states rose slightly in the second half of last year for the first time since mid-2001. 
 Governors, legislatures and budget directors welcomed the news after three years in which state officials had to contend with a cumulative $200 billion in budget shortfalls. But officials warned that many states were entering the new year and preparing for next year still facing substantial budget deficits. 
Over the past three years, total spending at the state level rose, at most, by one-half percent, a marked change from the record of the previous 25 years, in which spending growth averaged 6.5 percent a year.
"In quite a large number of states, budgets will be smaller in actual dollar amounts than they were two or three years ago," said Scott Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers, based in Washington. "That's pretty unusual and significant. The good news is it appears most states have hit bottom and are slowly climbing out, but boy, the bottom was deep. It's going to be hard coming out of that."
States have responded by greatly cutting spending and raising fees on all kinds of services, from fishing licenses to divorce filings. Sales taxes rose in 17 states, while 10 states, including New York, increased income taxes, although most made the increases temporary. Many states resorted to one-time remedies to raise revenue, including accelerating tax collections in Michigan and deferring salary payments into the next fiscal year in Virginia. States have borrowed against pension funds and tobacco settlement payments and offered amnesty to delinquent taxpayers to encourage them to make overdue payments.
In California, state general fund spending in the current fiscal year, which began July 1, is projected to fall to $73 billion from $78 billion the previous year. This week, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger will present a budget for the coming fiscal year that must address a projected shortfall of at least $14 billion. Governor Schwarzenegger has vowed not to raise taxes, and the success of his plan hinges on a March referendum approving the sale of $15 billion in bonds to cover the deficit.
California has coped with its fiscal crisis with one-time budget gimmicks and deep cuts in spending on higher education, health care and numerous programs, from parks to the arts. The fiscal crisis has also had profound political implications, leading at least in part to the recall of former Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, and the rollicking election that brought Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, to power in November.
States from coast to coast are facing similar fiscal problems and the political fallout that accompanies them. In Alabama, a conservative Republican governor, Bob Riley, who said he had never voted for a tax increase in his three terms in Congress, proposed the largest tax increase in the state's history to cover a deep budget deficit.
Mr. Riley devised the $1.2 billion tax package to protect the state's poorest citizens, but opponents seized on provisions like a tax on services like car repairs to build public sentiment against it. 
Voters roundly rejected the tax increase in the fall, and now cuts have begun. Five thousand nonviolent offenders are being paroled early from prisons, troopers have gone to a four-day workweek, and schools have run out of money for textbooks and computers.
In Oregon, Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski, a Democrat, negotiated with Republicans in the State Legislature to win passage of an $800 million package of tax increases to address a projected $1 billion budget shortfall. The plan included a temporary increase in the state income tax and new taxes on tobacco and businesses. Oregon does not have a sales tax.
But antitax forces in the state, including members of the Libertarian Party and conservative Republicans, collected more than 50,420 signatures to put the governor's plan before the voters in a February referendum. Even the plan's supporters expect it to be rejected, which would force Governor Kulongoski to cut spending by $800 million.
Defeat of the tax plan would "end the Oregon Health Plan as we know it, cutting it by hundreds of millions of dollars, and cause deep cuts in K-12 education, as much as $400 million or $500 million," said Peter Bragdon, the governor's chief of staff. 
Like several states, Oregon broadened medical coverage in the boom years of the late 1990's. Now, with budgets shrinking and health care costs rising at double-digit rates, states are cutting back severely by raising eligibility requirements and eliminating coverage for hundreds of thousands of people.
According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research group in Washington that tracks the effects of government policies on low-income people, 34 states have cut spending on Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program over the past two years.
Missouri, for example, lowered the income limit for eligibility for Medicaid to $11,750 from $15,260 for a family of three, and tightened the requirements in other ways, eliminating benefits for as many as 42,700 people. Florida has stopped granting children's health benefits to new applicants, putting them on a waiting list instead; this has affected 44,000 children. Texas increased monthly premiums for the children's health program and imposed an asset test for families. Those and other changes will drop as many as 494,000 Texans from the ranks of the insured.
In all, the center estimates, 1.2 million to 1.6 million poor people have lost their health benefits as a result of cuts at the state level.
The last time states faced such difficult fiscal conditions was after the 1990-91 recession. But the response to the current slowdown has been vastly different, said Arturo Perez, a senior fiscal analyst in Denver for the National Conference of State Legislatures.
He said that in 1991, states raised taxes by $15.4 billion, about 5.4 percent of the previous year's tax collections. In 2003, by contrast, states raised taxes by $7.8 billion, or 1.5 percent of revenue from the year before. Mr. Perez said that politicians have become tax-shy in the past decade.
"Look what happened to Florio and Cuomo and others who supported tax increases in campaigns after that period," Mr. Perez said, referring to two former governors, James J. Florio of New Jersey and Mario M. Cuomo of New York, who lost to rivals who campaigned against unpopular tax increases. "That lesson hasn't been lost."
Widespread opposition to tax increases prompted officials to compensate by raising excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco and a variety of charges for state services, calling them user fees rather than taxes.
Alaska raised fees on rental cars. Arkansas imposed a 3 percent excise tax on beer and doubled, to $150, the fee for reinstatement of drivers' licenses revoked for drunken driving. Georgia tripled the cigarette tax to 27 cents a pack. North Carolina increased the fee the state charges for analyzing pap smears. Ohio raised the elevator inspection fee. Texas is erecting tollbooths on state highways, raising college tuitions and imposing a $1,000 surcharge on drunken driving convictions.
Massachusetts raised the fee for a marriage license to $50 from $4. New Jersey raised the divorce filing fee to $250 from $200.
Last spring, the New York State Legislature voted to raise taxes and borrow about $4 billion to avoid deep cuts to education and medical services for the poor that Gov. George E. Pataki had proposed to close an $11.5 billion budget gap. The governor vetoed most of the Legislature's plan, but lawmakers from both parties overrode him.
A reluctance to raise taxes or cut spending was among the chief causes of the current fiscal fix, said Ray Scheppach, executive director of the National Governors Association, based in Washington. Federal tax policy, unfinanced mandates for programs like domestic security, and ever-rising Medicaid costs all contributed to what will be long-term fiscal problems, no matter how the economy performs over the next 12 months, he said.
"I think we've bottomed out and it's going to get better," Mr. Scheppach said, describing the states' fiscal plight as the worst since World War II. "But not a lot better."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Improvement in State Tax Revenues"Tax revenues for the 50 states grew by 0.4 percent in the third quarter of 2003 after adjusting for inflation and legislated tax changes. It was the first quarter since 2001 that states had seen gains. YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE IN STATE TAX REVENUE Graph tracks percent change in year-over-year change in state tax revenue since 1992. July-Sept. 2003: 0.4% (Source by Fiscal Studies Program, Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); BUDGETS (94%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); SALES TAX (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



98 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: Mad Cow Forces Beef Industry to Change Course 

BYLINE:  This article is by Michael Moss, Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Simon Romero.

 BODY:
Jeffrey Behling, a dairy farmer in Washington State, used to burn the carcasses of his hobbled "downer" cattle until he found there was a market for their meat. Even so, selling damaged cows for human consumption never sat well with Mr. Behling, who in 2001 briefly had in his feedlot the Holstein cow identified last month as the downer with mad cow disease.
 "It's an absurd practice," Mr. Behling, 44, said in an interview. "Foolishness caused by maybe a certain amount of greed." 
 The financial motive that drove the industry to defend practices like selling downers has been turned on its head by the discovery of mad cow disease. Now, in an attempt to rescue the market for American beef, the industry is being forced to accept regulation it has long fought. 
But some large American companies that process and sell beef had already abandoned those more controversial practices, which had been a rallying point for food safety advocates since mad cow disease appeared overseas nearly two decades ago. While a schism developed in the industry, the current crisis reveals how government regulators sided with companies that adhered to those methods of operation.
When an animal rights group, Farm Sanctuary, and an individual, Michael Baur, sued the government to force a ban on using downer animals for food, government lawyers persuaded a federal judge to dismiss the case on the ground that mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, had not appeared in the United States.
"The threat of B.S.E. from downed livestock is not 'real and immediate,' " the lawyers argued. "B.S.E. has never been found in the country's livestock, and there is no reasoned basis to expect that it ever will be considering the measures being taken against it." An appeals court reinstated the case on Dec. 16, 2003 -- one week before the announcement that the disease had been discovered.
For years, the industry had a simple strategy: Fight proposals that would crimp its ability to squeeze as much revenue as possible from each cow. The finances were compelling.
At least 150,000 downer cattle -- those who because of injury or illness cannot walk -- were sold annually for human consumption for as much as a few hundred dollars apiece, extra money for cattlemen struggling with low prices. Food safety advocates warned that these cattle could carry disease, but the political power of the industry was evident in 2002 when its lobbyists helped defeat legislation banning the commercial slaughter of downer cattle even after it had been approved by the House and the Senate.
In the 1990's, meatpackers bought machines that were able to strip a few extra pounds off carcasses while saving millions in labor costs. Critics tried to limit the use of the so-called advanced meat recovery systems, citing studies showing that the extra meat was sometimes laced with nerve tissues, where mad cow disease can incubate. But by one consultant's account several years ago, getting rid of the machines would mean a loss to the industry of more than $130 million a year.
Now the money saved by fighting those changes is dwarfed by the billions the industry stands to lose unless it can convince consumers, especially overseas, that its beef is safe.
"They played a high-risk, high-stakes game, and they lost their bet," said Representative Gary L. Ackerman, a New York Democrat who pushed for a ban on the commercial slaughter of downer cows. "Now the perception among millions of people is that this product isn't safe, and they can't put Humpty Dumpty back together again."

It Was the Best of Times
As part of the campaign to restore consumer confidence, Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman last week banned the use of downer cattle for meat and imposed further regulation on advanced recovery systems. Still, after the disease was detected last month, cattle prices plunged about 20 percent, while the $3.6 billion export market for beef, veal and variety meats largely evaporated, according to Cattle-Fax, an industry research firm. This came after United States beef prices had reached record highs, partly because of the restriction of imports from Canada after the mad cow outbreak there and the rising popularity of beef-friendly eating trends like the Atkins diet. 
"The last year had been heaven on earth for beef producers," said Don Stull, a co-author of "Slaughterhouse Blues," a study of the meat industry.
But even in the best of times, meatpacking remains a cutthroat business. Steve Kay, the publisher of Cattle Buyers Weekly, estimates that profit margins rarely climb above 2 percent as companies deal with fluctuating cattle prices and relatively higher labor costs.
Those financial constraints, which led meatpackers to harvest every last pound of meat, also caused consolidation in the industry.
Five meatpackers now slaughter more than 80 percent of the nation's steers and heifers: Tyson, Excel, Swift, National Beef Packing and Smithfield. Bigger slaughterhouses have cut processing costs by as much as 40 percent, according to Agriculture Department data. Wholesale beef prices have declined almost every year since the early 1980's.
"We have the cheapest food supply in the world in terms of what we spend on food as part of our incomes," said Dean Cliver, a professor of population health at the University of California at Davis.
Affordable beef has helped make for easy relations between the industry and federal regulators. According to the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer group, a dozen top officials of the Department of Agriculture have worked or lobbied for the industry or for industry trade groups. They include Jim Moseley, the deputy agriculture secretary, who was managing director of Infinity Pork LLC, a hog farm; Dr. Chuck Lambert, the deputy under secretary for marketing and regulatory programs, who was chief economist of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association; and Mary Waters, the assistant secretary for Congressional relations, who was senior director and legislative counsel for ConAgra Foods. "It's not surprising the industry has so much influence given the number of U.S.D.A. officials who have been hired directly out of the meat industry," said Caroline Smith DeWaal, the center's food safety director.
Alisa Harrison, the department's press secretary, said Secretary Veneman set policy by consulting a wide range of advisers and interest groups. "To make a sweeping charge that her decisions are influenced just because she has people from industry on her staff is very disingenuous," she said. She also noted that the department's top food safety official, Dr. Elsa A. Murano, had been director of the Center for Food Safety at Texas A&M University.
Ms. Harrison also said the department had been attentive to the dangers of mad cow well before last month. "We were able to make the quick announcement that we did last week because a lot of the groundwork had been going on" since the discovery in May of a cow in Canada with the disease, she said. "These are things we have been looking at."
But the debate over the advanced recovery system shows how the industry and regulators have resisted pressure from safety advocates since the disease appeared in Britain in 1986 and then spread to 18 other European countries.

New Process, New Concerns
The technology, developed a decade ago, uses hydraulic pressure to force extra pounds off cow carcasses, producing filler for processed foods like hamburger, hot dogs and pizza toppings. Consumer groups initially complained that bone was getting into the advanced meat recovery product and argued that the product should not be labeled as beef. Then, in 1997, federal agriculture officials announced that they had found spinal cord tissue in some of the meat.
Concerned that the nerve tissue could increase the public's risk of contracting mad cow disease, consumer groups asked the government to ban the technology, said Linda Golodner, president of the National Consumers League.
But both the industry and government regulators resisted, arguing that the absence of the disease in the United States showed that there was no problem. "For us, so far, it's a non-public-health issue because we have no B.S.E.," Kaye Wachsmuth, who was then deputy administrator for public health science at the Agriculture Department, said in 1998.
There were other arguments against the ban. The machinery replaced workers who could suffer crippling injury from trimming the carcasses by hand; one consultant study estimated that 394 workers would be injured if slaughterhouses returned to hand-trimming.
Companies that sell the machines say such beef poses no threat. "The accepted science essentially states that there is not any relationship between B.S.E. and A.M.R.," said Harold T. Hodges, vice president of government relations and product quality for the BFD Corporation, one of the distributors of the machines. "We've never had an issue."
Proponents of the technology argued that proper enforcement of the technology, rather than a ban, could prevent contamination.
"It's always been a legitimate enforcement compliance issue to ensure that what you call beef is beef," said Robert Hibbert, a lawyer who represented meat processors that used the technology. "There is no justification for banning something on the basis that it has been removed by a machine rather than by hand with a knife."
But some industry officials worried that not every processor used the machinery properly. At an American Meat Institute conference in Chicago in 1997, an executive of a major beef producer warned that applying too much pressure would force bone material into the beefy mush. In addition, the spinal cord has to be carefully removed before the cow carcass is fed to the machine.

Second Thoughts
As federal officials continued to find traces of nervous-system tissue in recovered beef, some companies determined that the potential cost of these practices outweighed the gains.
With consumer groups pressing for a boycott of meat produced using advanced recovery technology, a host of restaurants and producers announced they were advanced meat recovery free, including General Mills and McDonald's, which swore off downer-cow meat as well. 
In a fact sheet, McDonald's says, "These policies meet or exceed all government requirements, and have been reviewed by our international scientific council on B.S.E., made up of renowned experts in this field." 
Meanwhile, some slaughterhouses had other reasons to stop using the machines. In late 2002, Shapiro Packing, a processor in Augusta, Ga., produced tainted beef using the machinery system. The contaminated material was destroyed, but the company had to spend a lot of money to shore up its operation, said Dane Bernard, vice president for food safety at Keystone Foods, which manages Shapiro Packing.
Additional workers were placed on the line to ensure that the carcasses were properly stripped of their spinal cords, and the company's inspections became nearly continuous, Mr. Bernard said. The new measures increased expenses while big beef buyers were boasting that their food was not processed using advanced meat-recovery systems. So last summer, Shapiro mothballed its machinery and returned to manual trimming. 
"I can't say we had a crystal ball," Mr. Bernard said. "Sometimes it's better to be lucky than good."
The discovery of mad cow disease is likely to increase the debate over the technology. Dr. Wachsmuth, the agriculture official who defended the technology in 1998, said in an interview on Saturday that the absence of the disease had been an important factor in that defense. "The mere threat of it wasn't enough," said Dr. Wachsmuth, who is now retired. "Now that we do have B.S.E., maybe it should be revisited."
Dan Murphy, a spokesman for the American Meat Institute, the meatpackers' trade group, said the number of processors using the technology had recently fallen to fewer than 30 from 35. He said that the machines once produced several hundred million pounds of meat a year, but that a survey in late 2002 found the number had dropped to 45 million.
Even so, he said, "We're confident that this is a safe, wholesome product that doesn't trigger any concern or carry any danger in its use." But he acknowledged that some members of the association were less supportive: "There are companies that would just as soon we said nothing." 
In her announcement last week, Secretary Veneman imposed regulations intended to further keep unwanted tissue from the food supply, but she stopped short of a ban on the technology.
Mr. Murphy, the industry spokesman, acknowledged that a further review of the technology was possible, especially if there is pressure from overseas trading partners. "Nobody is going to give up $1.2 billion in beef trade for a handful of A.M.R.," he said.
In Washington State, Mr. Behling, the onetime holder of the diseased cow, said that in the days since the discovery of mad cow, the industry has learned that lesson in global economics. Mr. Behling, who has a few thousand cows in his operation, said that when the occasional downer cow appeared, a slaughterer would drive out to his farm with a hoist and give him $100 for the hobbled animal.
But in the wake of the mad cow crisis, he said, "My feeling is that any money that dairy farmers might have made from downer cows, they gave it all back this week."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: "Getting the Remaining Meat Off the Bones"A mechanical process, known in the industry as advanced meat recovery, extracts residual muscle tissue from bone. Advocates say that it spares workers, who use tools to do the same job by hand, from getting repetitive motion injuries, and that it can harvest lean meat that would otherwise go to waste. Critics say it can mix nerve and muscle tissue, potentially spreading contamination. BONES CUT DOWN -- A "presizer" machine reduces bones to about six inches in length. MEAT SEPARATED -- Bones are fed into a hydraulic device that compresses them. The meat is pressed between a rotating cylinder and a moving belt. The softer meat goes through filter holes in the cylinder; the waste tissues are scraped off the outside of the cylinder. 1. Bones fill the compression chamber. 2. Two cylinders press the bones together. The strong pressure forces the softer meat tissue through a sieve above. 3. The bone mass, called a pellet, is removed for disposal. 4. FINER FILTER -- The meat is fed into another machine, below, which filters out remaining connective tissue and cartilage. The result is typically used in products with ground meat, including sausage, pizza toppings and hamburger. Diagram of the advanced meat recovery process. (Source by BFD Corporation)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); BEEF (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); ANIMALS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); LAWYERS (70%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (66%); APPROVALS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); JUDGES (65%); POLITICS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



99 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
A Debate on Web Phone S ervice

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Charles Davidson, a self-proclaimed gadget freak in Tallahassee, Fla., began using Internet-based telephone service last week. He can call anyone -- not just the other 100,000 pioneers around the nation using such service, but any of the millions of people who use conventional telephones, like his parents in Elizabethton, Tenn.
 But Mr. Davidson is more than an adventuresome consumer. As a member of the Florida Public Service Commission, he is a regulator who is eager to see Internet telephone service spread because he predicts it can make the nation's phone services less expensive and richer in features. 
 That is why Mr. Davidson wants the federal and state governments to let Internet-based phone service blossom, free from regulation, taxes and surcharges. Like a growing number of officials who advocate minimal oversight of the service -- including Michael K. Powell, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission -- Mr. Davidson says Internet telephone service should be treated just like other unregulated Internet services, including e-mail messaging and Web surfing. 
But unlike some proponents of deregulation, Mr. Davidson also has a nagging concern. Because Internet-based phone service rides over traditional telephone or cable lines, it will not work unless the conventional phone network is intact. The government has long regarded that network as a national asset akin to roads and highways, and it is a communications system whose reliability and virtual ubiquity make it the envy of most of the rest of the world. In fact, if users of Internet phones were not able to communicate with all the millions of people still plugged into the conventional telephone network, Internet telephone service would be little more than a hobbyist's experiment.
So Internet telephone service raises a public policy question: If the government does not continue to play a role in ensuring that the telephone network is reliable and universally available, does the nation risk losing a vital asset? 
"It's a great question," Mr. Davidson said. "Do we, as a society, want to maintain a policy of 'always on'?"
Mr. Davidson, a former antitrust lawyer appointed to the Florida commission by the governor, Jeb Bush, a Republican, is still weighing his answer. But he says he tends to think that markets are more efficient than regulators -- in other words, that laissez-faire can walk hand in hand with "always on." 
Some of Mr. Davidson's counterparts in other states sound just as certain that only government referees can preserve the decades-old tradition of universal, reliable telephone service.
"If somebody doesn't regulate this, it's buyer beware," said Loretta Lynch, a member of the California Public Utilities Commission, who was appointed by the former governor, Gray Davis, a Democrat. Ms. Lynch, a lawyer, said the role of the telephone was too important to leave in the hands of market forces. "Telecommunications is essential to our democracy," she said. "It's essential, in fact, to keeping an informed populace." 
If the issue were limited to the 100,000 or so customers currently using Internet-based telephones, the debate might remain largely theoretical. But the service seems on the verge of a takeoff. 
The field's current leader is the Vonage Holdings Corporation, an Edison, N.J., company with about 80 percent of the market so far. Mr. Davidson is among its customers. Vonage estimates that it will have 250,000 customers by the end of 2004 and one million by 2006. Time Warner Cable, a unit of Time Warner Inc., and the AT&T Corporation have both announced major initiatives to roll out Internet-based phone service. The regional Bell company Qwest Communications International Inc. plans to offer Internet telephone service in its 14-state Rocky Mountain region as an alternative to conventional phone service. And every other major telecommunications provider has plans to introduce Internet-based service to take advantage of the technology's lower costs and the lack of regulation. 
The F.C.C. has embarked on a series of public hearings around the country on whether and how to regulate Internet telephony. The agency's chairman, Mr. Powell, has said that his instinct is to subject telephone calls made using Internet technology to only minimal regulation in order to avoid costs and bureaucracy that he says would slow innovation and competition.
The public policy questions go to the heart of a social compact born in the 1930's. Then, the government granted regulated monopolies in individual markets to AT&T and other, smaller companies. In exchange, policy makers exacted a price: the telephone monopolies had to meet service quality standards and collect taxes and surcharges to support affordable, universal access even in rural or remote areas where free-market economics would not have made it cost effective to string telephone wires.
Although AT&T's Bell System was split up in 1984, the existing four major telephone companies descending from it -- Verizon Communications, the BellSouth Corporation, Qwest and SBC Communications Inc. -- still face substantial regulation from the federal and state governments. Now, though, with the advent of Internet-based telephone service, as well as competition from wireless providers, there is growing momentum to rewrite 70 years of rules. 
"The economic regulation was quid pro quo for giving it a monopoly," said Mr. Davidson of the rules governing the Bell companies. Now, he said, "there is no monopoly."
Mr. Davidson said he thought that competition from cable and wireless companies provided consumers an array of new choices. But among the various state and federal regulators who will weigh in on the Internet-phone issue, there are many nuanced notions about how to proceed. 
Some want to see state regulation eliminated; others want to see regulation streamlined but kept intact. Many want to retain guarantees of 911 service and universal service for low-income and rural residents, but they differ considerably on how to achieve those goals. Even within the National Association of Utility Regulators, an influential lobbying group of state regulators, some top officials have greatly divergent views about how to regulate telecommunications in the 21st century. 
Not all industry executives agree, either, although most companies favor a significant rollback of regulations. One of the most unabashed supporters of Internet-based telephone service is Richard C. Notebaert, the chief executive of Qwest. Mr. Notebaert said Qwest, besides introducing Internet-based calling across its region, might even offer it nationwide. 
Mr. Notebaert said that with Internet telephone service, he could save his customers 25 percent to 30 percent on their bills because they would not be required to pay the taxes and surcharges assessed to conventional phone service to support such things as phone service for low-income and rural residents. He said Internet-based service would enable his company to save "hundreds of millions" of dollars a year in costs associated with following regulatory requirements like tracking and reporting Qwest's customer service performance by various measures. 
Mr. Notebaert acknowledged that moving to Internet telephone service would mean tradeoffs. "You're going to have to give things up to get 25 to 30 percent savings," Mr. Notebaert said. As to regulation, including universal service, he said, "I do not think it should be retained at all."
Some of the lower costs of Internet telephone service are a result of the underlying architecture. In the conventional telephone network, voice calls travel over a line that stretches from the home to a piece of phone company equipment called a circuit switch. The switch, and many others like it along the way, routes the call to its destination over local or long-distance networks. The switches can be expensive, as much as $10 million each, said John Hodulik, a telecommunications analyst with UBS Securities.
And adding to the costs is the fact that with conventional telephone service the line that carries the voice signal to and from homes is dedicated exclusively to one call at a time. With Internet-basedcalls, the information is broken down into small packets, so that the lines that carry the voice conversations can simultaneously transport many other packets of Internet traffic, like e-mail messages and World Wide Web pages. And Internet calls do not require lots of expensive circuit switches, because each packet of data carries an address that helps it find its own way across the network. 
Were telephone companies to build a network from scratch today, they likely would do so using the less expensive Internet architecture that has enabled start-up companies like Vonage to enter the market.
Vonage has invested a mere $12 million in technology, the company's chief executive, Jeffrey A. Citron, said. That, he said, is a far cry from the $75 million to $100 million that some companies must spend to begin offering conventional telephone service. And Vonage spends only about $200 to set up each new customer, while a service provider selling conventional phone service might need to spend as much as $600 a customer, Mr. Citron said. 
But some critics say a big reason Vonage and other Internet-based phone providers can cut costs is because they do not have to adhere to the same rules and regulations as the conventional telephone companies on whose local and national networks the Internet providers depend. Even an Internet telephony fan like Jeff Pulver, who was formerly on the Vonage board, acknowledged that a substantial amount of cost savings comes from avoiding the taxes, surcharges and access fees used to support the traditional phone network. 
"Vonage benefits by not having to comply with those rules," he said. Mr. Pulver acknowledges that the Internet upstarts are practicing regulatory "arbitrage." But in his view the public policy response should be to deregulate all phone companies. 
The fact that Vonage is not regulated and did not pay to build the national network may obscure the real cost of providing Internet-based phone service. Likewise, the cost to customers is not as low as it may seem. While consumers may pay less each month for Internet telephone service than for regular phone service, they cannot obtain the service unless they first have high-speed Internet access -- on which they are likely to spend $40 to $70 a month. So the ability to use Internet phone service may actually require a total monthly outlay of $100 or more. 
Those are table stakes far higher than the bare-bones "lifeline" conventional telephone service subsidized by the regulated industry's universal service fund, which can make basic dial tone and 911 service available to the poor or elderly for less than $10 a month in some states. 
That is why policy makers like Ms. Lynch of the California resist the idea that Internet telephone service will lead to a telecommunications market so competitive that government regulation becomes unnecessary. She said that if conventional telephone companies like Qwest were allowed to avoid regulation by moving their business to Internet-based service, it would drain money from the universal service funds that have enabled low-income residents, as well as schools and libraries, to afford basic phone service.
"The pot of money used to make sure people can communicate will shrink," Ms. Lynch said. "It's a death spiral."
She also questions the premise that a competitive marketplace will satisfy consumer demands for reliable, affordable telecommunications. There are six major mobile phone companies, Ms. Lynch said, and despite vibrant competition, wireless service is still highly unreliable.
"Economic theory is not today's reality," Ms. Lynch said. "My job is not to hypothesize about Nirvana. My job is to deal with the realities today."
Mr. Davidson, in Florida, says he agrees that universal service is an important goal. But, he says he thinks the Internet phone technology should be allowed to mature before it is subjected to taxes and surcharges.
He also says he thinks that Internet-based telephone service providers should eventually be required to provide 911 service. But there, too, he would rather not force the issue just yet -- in part because 911 service is difficult for Internet-based telephone services to accomplish. 
Compared with traditional telephone calls, it is complicated to determine the precise location from which an Internet-based call has been placed, meaning that 911 operators would need to ask the caller to provide that information -- even as the house is burning or the child is choking. Mr. Davidson said companies should have to disclose that shortcoming.
"The industry has a very clear obligation," Mr. Davidson said, "to let folks know that this isn't your father's 911." 
But when asked when the industry would be mature enough to make 911 service mandatory, he showed his laissez-faire side. "I don't know," he said. "We should allow companies some time to get there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Davidson has been using an Internet-based phone service for only a matter of days. As a member of the Florida Public Service Commission, he would like to see the Web business flourish with little government oversight. (Photo by Reggie Grant/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Michael K. Powell, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, has said that he supports minimal regulation of Internet phone services because he thinks the added costs and bureaucracy would slow innovation and competition. (Photo by Kim Kulish for The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); LAWYERS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) ELECTRONICS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



100 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
In Survey, Fewer Are Sharing Files (Or Admitting It)

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
How easily do online file swappers scare? Pretty darned easily, a new survey suggests. 
 The number of people swapping music files online has dropped by half, and the number of people downloading files on any given day has dropped 75 percent since the middle of last year, according to a report to be released today by the Pew Internet and American Life Project. Last September is when the Recording Industry Association of America started suing people accused of making large numbers of songs available for downloading. 
 "Clearly, the R.I.A.A. suits were a watershed moment for the downloading community," the director of the Pew Internet project, Lee Rainie, said, referring to the lawsuits by the recording association. 
In a previous survey of 1,358 Internet users, conducted from March 1 to May 20, 29 percent said they had downloaded music. The percentage dropped to 14 percent when the question was asked again from Nov. 18 to Dec. 14, after hundreds of people had been sued by the recording industry over accusations of copyright infringement.
In the survey period last spring, 4 percent of the Internet users said they had downloaded files on an average day. Only 1 percent of Internet users in the later survey said they had downloaded files on any given day during the survey period. And about one in five of those who said that they still shared music and other files said that they were doing less of it because of the industry lawsuits.
Past surveys showed that many people did not fully understand that they were infringing on the copyright of others by downloading free music, Mr. Rainie said. Despite the abuse heaped on the industry for its tactics, he added, that message appears to have gotten through. 
Before the lawsuits, interviewers were often told, "'We think what we're doing isn't a violation, because we're just sharing,"' Mr. Rainie said. Now, he said, "significant numbers of people are thinking differently about it, in part because of the R.I.A.A. message," even if the lawsuits were "not a high-water mark for the reputation of the recording industry." 
The result is a change in behavior, though not necessarily in attitude. "It's not like people are happily embracing this message," he said, "but there are consequences now to what they are doing." 
Mr. Rainie said that the steep drop represented a sharp turnaround among Internet users. "I'm trying to think of any significant Internet activity that was popular, and on an upswing, and saw a decline of this level," he said. 
A representative of the recording industry hailed the news from Pew. "This is another data point that tells us that the lawsuits have had an impact," said Mitch Bainwol, the chairman and chief executive of the recording association. He called the new figures "encouraging" and said that, along with other measures that his group tracks internally, "it tells us that we're on the right track, and ought to continue with the lawsuits."
The industry was dealt a setback last month when a federal court ruled that it could not use a special fast-track process to force Internet service providers to unmask file traders so that they could be sued. But Mr. Bainwol said that the industry would continue to "vigorously defend our rights" through lawsuits, even if the legal procedure they have to follow to initiate the suits is more cumbersome and expensive.
The new study comes as other measures of consumer activity suggest that the industry's slide of the last several years might be slowing. Year-end figures released last week by Nielsen SoundScan showed that fourth-quarter sales of compact discs were up 5.6 percent over the same quarter a year earlier, and that CD sales for 2003 were down 2 percent from 2002. The overall music business, which includes sales of 19.2 million digital tracks since the end of June, was down 0.8 percent compared with sales from the previous year, Nielsen said. 
While other evidence also points to a sharp drop in online music swapping among Americans, some experts on the downloading world said that the Pew figures might overstate the drop in file sharing. For one thing, respondents to surveys could be more reluctant, in light of the lawsuits, to admit to engaging in an activity that could get them into legal trouble.
"I think it's not unreasonable to believe that most folks have at least heard of the R.I.A.A. lawsuits and probably figure that telling a stranger on the phone about their downloading isn't a very good idea," said Cindy Cohn, the legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group that has fought the industry. At the same time, some people may have gone to greater effort to mask their online activities, including going to alternatives for trading music that are harder to track, including so-called darknets, file-sharing networks with restricted membership.
Rob Glaser, the chief executive of RealNetworks, which makes software that plays music and video, said that he suspected that an unwillingness to admit to downloading could be skewing the Pew results, and that the survey went farther than other data he had seen. Moreover, core Internet users, like college students, have not changed much, he said. "The mind-set on college campuses," he said, "is still, 'Whatever."' 
If anything, use of file sharing is still on the rise, said Eric Garland, the chief executive BigChampagne, an online media measurement company. "We have empirical evidence that the use of popular file-sharing services like Kazaa, both in terms of the number of users and in terms of the volume of material, is up, and up dramatically" over the time measured in the study, he said. 
Even though some bias could be creeping into the survey because of the legal problems with downloading, Mr. Rainie said, the report provides clear evidence of a significant change in behavior. 
"My guess is that a portion of our respondents are no longer fessing up downloading," he said. "But that can't account for the full dropoff in the downloader population."
While services like Kazaa claim that file sharing on their networks continues to rise, those increases probably reflect global usage and not what is going on within the United States, he said. 
The Pew results are supported by new figures from a consumer monitoring firm, comScore Media Metrix, which were released along with the Pew report. The comScore data showed a significant drop in the number of computers in the United States running four of the most popular peer-to-peer file sharing programs compared with levels a year ago. Use of Kazaa, the largest program, fell 15 percent, while WinMX fell 25 percent; BearShare, 9 percent; and Grokster, 59 percent. 
To Ms. Cohn of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the lawsuits may have helped the industry address the problem of downloading, but they cannot fix a broader issue: giving people the music that they actually want to buy. "Who will the labels blame next if file sharing actually has gone down," she asked, "but they still haven't seen a corresponding bump in their revenues?"

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Behavior Modification"Combining the threat of lawsuits against major file swappers with the lure of easier online music purchases, the record industry is making gains in its battle against free music downloading. Unique visitors to Kazaa, from home or office, monthly The number of visitors to Kazaa, an Internet site that acts as a conduit for music swapping online, has fallen sharply . . . Graph tracks the number of visitors to Kazaa, from home or office, monthly from Jan.-Nov. Digital tracks downloaded, weekly . . . and legal sales of digital tracks via the Internet have started to take off. Graph tracks the number of digital tracks downloaded, weekly from June-Dec. (Sources by Nielsen/NetRatings; Nielsen SoundScan)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (87%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COPYRIGHT LAW (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (73%); COPYRIGHT (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TRADEMARK LAW (67%) MUSIC, OPERA AND MUSICAL RECORDINGS; PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND PIRACY; CRIME 

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



101 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Officials Search Office of Parmalat's Lawyer 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London for this article.

 BODY:
The Manhattan district attorney's office has searched the New York office and apartment of a Parmalat lawyer in connection with the fraud investigation of the company, according to someone close to the investigation.
 A spokeswoman for Robert M. Morgenthau, the district attorney, would not confirm yesterday that a search had been done. 
 The office and apartment, which were searched on Friday, belonged to Gian Paolo Zini, a Parmalat lawyer detained in Milan in connection with the Parmalat investigation, said Ansa, the Italian news agency, quoting people close to the case in Parma, where Parmalat is based.
Italian officials called the documents found in the search, the contents of which were not described, "interesting" and "useful," AFX News, an economic news service, reported, quoting Italian newspapers. 
On another front of the investigation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, which filed a complaint against Parmalat on Dec. 30, acknowledged yesterday that any inquiry it conducted would include scrutiny of investment banks that issued the company's bonds or stocks to investors. 
Lawrence A. West, an associate director in the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, would not confirm reports in Italian newspapers saying that three American investment banks were the subjects of an investigation. 
"In any case like this, it's obvious that we're going to be looking at anybody involved in the issuance of securities that were involved in the fraud," Mr. West said. 
In its complaint, the S.E.C. asserted that Parmalat sold nearly $1.5 billion in notes and bonds to United States investors from 1998 through 2002, but it did not assert fraud in connection with those offerings. 
Still, Mr. West disputed reports that an inquiry into the investment banks would represent a widening of the S.E.C.'s investigation. "When we say our investigation is continuing, which we said in the litigation release, that obviously refers to the possibility that there are other parties that are involved in the lawsuit," he said.
Challenging reports that Parmalat was asking for more bank loans to continue its operations, a person close to the company's situation said that it had "no urgent need for funds." 
Because the company is in the Italian equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy, loan and interest payments have been suspended, reducing Parmalat's day-to-day cash needs substantially. The money the company is generating is sufficient to meet its daily obligations, this person said.
The same person said most of the company's biggest creditor banks were eager to lend it money and have expressed a willingness to do so. Under Italian law, any lender to a company that has filed for bankruptcy protection receives privileged creditor status, meaning it will be paid back first.
Parmalat, one of Italy's largest food companies, sought protection from creditors last month after a string of accusations regarding fraudulent accounting. Investigators are looking at current and former Parmalat employees as well as outside auditors. 
Enrico Bondi, the turnaround specialist who has been selected to run Parmalat, is expected to concentrate this month on a detailed examination of the company's units and finances. 
On Saturday, Calisto Tanzi, Parmalat's founder, offered to forfeit his stake in the company as well as some of his personal assets. He did not say whether the holding represented the whole of his family's 50 percent share of the company. 
A Bloomberg News report said Mr. Bondi had rejected the offer yesterday.
In Ecuador, Reuters reported that Judge Guido Salvini told the newspaper El Comercio that Ecuadorean courts would investigate the company's activities there because Mr. Tanzi had visited the country shortly before his arrest last month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) CRIME; LEGAL PROFESSION 

COMPANY: PARMALAT SPA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) PARMALAT 

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (90%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (90%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



102 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: On Pleasant Avenue, a Mobbed-Up History Is Hard to Live Down 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON and VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
It can be hard for certain New York City neighborhoods to lose their reputations. To some people, the South Bronx is still burning and Hell's Kitchen is still a place filled with gangsters with Irish names and a taste for sadistic violence. And while gentrification can tame parts of Brooklyn, it cannot rewrite their rap sheets.
 Such is the plight of Pleasant Avenue -- a six-block stretch in East Harlem that is one of the most famous gangland stretches in mob history. The avenue, which runs from 114th Street to 120th Street, just east of First Avenue, is an Italian enclave dating back more than a century and has been immortalized as a Mafia stronghold by movies and mob reporters. It is where Sonny Corleone beat up Carlo in "The Godfather," and where a real-life godfather, Anthony Salerno, known as Fat Tony, ran the Genovese crime family. 
 Law enforcement crackdowns squashed much of the mob, and Mr. Salerno was sent to prison for racketeering. The old neighborhood began losing its mob reputation; wiseguys no longer got their Cadillacs and Lincolns hand-washed at the hydrant in front of Jimmy Chiarucci's hot dog store, and fewer residents got their merchandise off the back of trucks. 
And it became gentrified, its old tenements and brownstones renovated and rented to urban professionals. There were still low-level wiseguys, but Pleasant Avenue was beginning to live down its outsize reputation.
But on Dec. 22 at Rao's, a restaurant at Pleasant Avenue and 114th Street with a reputation for exclusivity, a man described by the police as a low-level local mobster shot another man -- whom the police said may have had mob ties -- for heckling a Broadway soprano who was entertaining diners. Suddenly, Pleasant Avenue was back in the headlines for all the old reasons.
"It set the neighborhood's reputation back 30 years," said Albert V. Luongo, 58, a board member of the Giglio Society of East Harlem, which raises money for Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church on East 115th Street. "That Pleasant Avenue died a long time ago. The young Italian people who live here now are educated."
The pastor at Mount Carmel, the Rev. Peter J. Rofrano, 87, dismissed the Rao's incident as a silly dispute, but said that people "immediately come to conclusions when there are no conclusions to be made."
The gangland stigma is hard to shake, he said. "It's been embedded in the neighborhood from 40, 50, 60 years ago, but you have the same sinners here as anywhere."
"The only godfather in this neighborhood," he added, leaning back in a chair in his rectory, "is me."
But even as many residents denounce the past, they celebrate it. Residents criticize the infatuation of the public and the press with their neighborhood's mob heritage. Then they begin telling ribald tales about Angelo Cheesecake or Tommy Salami. 
Clearly, Pleasant Avenue has a lot of lore to live down: Its pedigree as wiseguy central is well documented in books, newspapers and films.
This is the place Al Pacino cites in "Carlito's Way," that Robert DeNiro, in "Analyze That," recalls growing up in. It was the subject of books like "The Pleasant Avenue Connection" (Harper & Row, 1976) and "Blue Domino" (Putnam, 1978). Where a neighborhood fella named Johnny Roast Beef met Martin Scorsese in Rao's one night and landed a role in "Goodfellas."
But to Gary Lombino, all of that is the Pleasant Avenue his father once knew.
"It's all sensationalized," said Mr. Lombino, 46, a doorman in Manhattan who grew up and still lives on the avenue. "This isn't the Pleasant Avenue of 40 years ago. This neighborhood now is all working people and I'm one of them. I don't run around wearing a pinky ring."
Mr. Lombino, known to friends as Gary the Lamb, said the goodfella life did have a certain appeal growing up. "Who were our idols?" he asked. "It wasn't Mickey Mantle, it was Fat Tony. Look what we grew up with. Guys on the corners dressing nice and wearing nice clothes who didn't have to go work."
The Pleasant Avenue that he knew in the 1960's and 1970's, he said, was so protected by the mob that residents did not lock their doors. On the avenue he knew, merchandise would regularly fall off the backs of trucks and was sold cheaply around the neighborhood. One summer, it seemed as if every man in the neighborhood wore the same bright orange terry-cloth T-shirt.
There were the late-night poker games in Charlie Ding-Ding's candy store, on 118th Street and Pleasant. Legend has it that when he ran out of cash, Ding-Ding began throwing chocolate bars into the pot until his shelves were bare.
And there was Eddie the Butcher, whose shop on 119th Street and Pleasant Avenue was rumored to be a front for illicit activity. Locals still joke that he did not sell a pork chop in 40 years, and that the blood stains on his apron never changed.
Everyone on Pleasant Avenue had a nickname that usually stuck till death. (Except for Johnny Lend-Me-Twenty, whose nickname changed over the decades with inflation. Now he's Johnny Lend-Me-Thirty.)
Some guys were named after body parts: Alfred Ears, Gary High-Eye, Vinnie and Frankie Head (no relation), Frankie Nose and Danny Legs, for example. Others were named for food: Charlie Cream Cheese, Freddy Eggs, Tommy Salami (currently a busboy at Rao's), Joe Olive and Mary Knish. Still others were named for animals: Jimmy the Cat, Vito the Bat, Johnny Fox and Gary the Lamb. Rats? They never lasted long on Pleasant Avenue.
And sometimes the nickname was all there was. An elderly guy named Waffles was taken one day to the hospital, but when his lifelong friends tried visiting, they could not find his room because none of them knew his real name. "If you didn't have a nickname, no one knew who you were," said Joseph Camerlingo, 77, a retired doorman.
Everyone knew Angelo Cheesecake, a mob soldier. He is dead now, however, and his son, Joey Cupcake, is in prison. But Claudio Caponigro, the barber, is still in business in the neighborhood after 53 years, and a few other Italian establishments remain, including Patsy's pizzeria on First Avenue, Morrone and Sons bakery on East 116th, and Rao's. Some traditions are also alive, like the annual stickball game and the July feast at Our Lady of Mount Carmel, although it no longer rivals the Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy.
Many longtime residents say the community has lost much of the tightknit character it had built over a century, since Italians from an overcrowded Little Italy began moving uptown.
The remaining Italian population of Pleasant Avenue is aging. There are many gray hairs among those who frequent the few remaining social clubs, the kind Fat Tony favored before he was convicted of racketeering in 1986 and sentenced to 100 years in prison.
On a recent afternoon, in a tired storefront on 115th Street, a dozen men sat in a smoky room with a bar on the side and a large table in the middle. None of the men were eager to interrupt their pinochle game to discuss Rao's, or any other neighborhood business for that matter.
"We all like each other here," said a man peeking over his cards. "This is a great neighborhood. Now go away and write a nice story."
Even Mr. Caponigro, who likes waxing nostalgic as he snips, clammed up when asked about the mob and Pleasant Avenue. "I got nothing to say on that subject," he said. Was it true he was Fat Tony's personal barber? "What are you, a D.A.?" he snapped.
One local banking on gentrification is Michael Widing, 38, who in July opened the Pleasant Cafe, a sleek restaurant at 118th Street, where Charlie Ding-Ding's candy store once stood. It is the spot where the James Caan fight scene in "The Godfather" was filmed; the cover for the book "The Pleasant Avenue Connection" was shot down the block.
Mr. Widing, who grew up on Pleasant Avenue, said that he got his share of local patrons, but that his clientele also included young professionals and people who cannot get a table at Rao's.
"I'm banking on change coming to this neighborhood," he said. "I wouldn't have invested otherwise. Everybody knows Pleasant Avenue."
Last week, Mr. Luongo sat in his small office on First Avenue, next to a recently shut espresso machine business. On his walls are photographs of Brando, Sinatra and DiMaggio, as well as snapshots of politicians and religious leaders who have visited the neighborhood. There was a bit of romance in his recollection of Mr. Salerno. For one thing, criminals steered clear.
"I have good memories of Fat Tony. He wasn't a Robin Hood, but in the Fat Tony days, you took care of your own problems here," he said. "There were no shootings. If you had a problem with your landlord, you didn't need a court of law."
As infuriated as they are with the media attention over the Rao's shooting, residents here debate the case incessantly themselves. The gunman, the police say, is Louis Barone, an older man known as Louie Lump Lump for his bilevel paunch. He is charged with shooting Albert Circelli, 37. He has told The New York Post and The Daily News that he is not connected to organized crime.
The two men squabbled after Mr. Circelli loudly insulted a female singerwho was entertaining diners. Danny Day, 53, who since 1976 has run a clothing shop on East 114th Street, several doors west of Rao's, called it a classic case of a younger guy not deferring to an older, well-known man in the neighborhood. "It shows that in any era," Mr. Day said, "disrespect can still be punishable by death."
Many residents know Mr. Barone, and many still speak affectionately of him, including Anthony Santo, 97, who sat in the Friends of Victory social club on Pleasant Avenue near 118th Street. Mr. Santo said he preferred the neighborhood of today to the mobster's paradise that Pleasant Avenue once was.
"Sure, I could go to Hawaii, go to the shows, see that Don Ho Ho Ho guy," he said. "But I got to be in the neighborhood because I have friends here I can talk to, friends who can take me to the track."
On Pleasant Avenue, a man named Mo walked his pit bull. Asked about the neighborhood's mob heyday, he said, "It was better back then." Then he tugged at his pit bull and added: "But what do I know? I did 26 years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While organized crime figures have come and gone on Pleasant Avenue, Claudio Caponigro, the local barber, has been cutting hair for 53 years. A few other Italian establishments remain in the neighborhood. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6); While the avenue's mob history is giving way to gentrification, some locals, like the Rev. Peter J. Rofrano, left, say the stigma is hard to shake. After an incident like the shooting at Rao's, he said, people "immediately come to conclusions when there are no conclusions to be made." (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Map of East Harlem highlighting the location of Pleasant Avenue: Pleasant Avenue in East Harlem has seen its stores and tenements renovated for urban professionals, but its past lingers. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%); RED HAT INC (58%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



103 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: In Their Own Words 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from statements by the Democratic presidential candidates at a debate in Johnston, Iowa, on Sunday afternoon, as recorded by Federal Document Clearing House Inc. Two candidates -- Gen. Wesley K. Clark and the Rev. Al Sharpton -- did not take part.

RICHARD A. GEPHARDT
On trade agreements
 I got a treaty with Jordan through the Clinton administration that really paid attention to labor and environmental rights. The Gephardt amendment is in law in the country, and it got markets open, like in Japan, where we've had to face unfair trade practices. And the steel tariffs, which have helped save a steel industry in this country, came in part from my advocacy. Now, everybody up here, except Dennis, voted for Nafta and voted for the China agreement. They did the wrong thing. 

JOHN KERRY
On his health care plan
I roll back a tax fund that will then pay for all the catastrophic cases in our country. That means there is a cap of $50,000 on any health care premium that anybody's paying. The result will be, premiums drop for every single person by $1,000 or more. I will lower costs of prescription drugs by allowing bulk purchasing of Medicare. It's a disgrace what happened in Washington the last months. This is one of the biggest giveaways to the drug companies in history.

JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN
On international trade
We can't create jobs by building up walls of protectionism. I looked at the stats in Iowa. One-fifth of the manufacturing jobs in this state -- by the number I saw, more than 100,000 -- are dependent on trade. The top two and three markets for goods from Iowa, both agricultural-grown goods and manufactured -- Canada and Mexico, the countries we're in Nafta with. You break Nafta, you're going to cut out tens of thousands of jobs here in Iowa.

JOHN EDWARDS
On trade agreements
I voted against the Chilean trade agreement, against the Caribbean trade agreement, against the Singapore trade agreement, against final passage of fast track for this president. And the reason is because I've seen what's happened in my state of North Carolina, with the loss of manufacturing jobs. I have been hearing in all these places I've visited here in Iowa how devastating it is.

HOWARD DEAN
On overhauling health care
Jimmy Carter tried to reform the health care system. Bill Clinton tried to reform the health care system. Every time, we couldn't get that stuff through Congress. And I was involved in the second one, and very, very peripherally in the first one. This is the third time. This time we're going to do it. I'm not interested in reforming the system first. I want everybody in the system first. I'm tired of people being uncovered. I'm tired of people paying almost as much for their health care payments every month as they do for their home mortgage. I want everybody in the system.

DENNIS J. KUCINICH
On trade
I think that every working person in America is going to be interested in the answers that have been given here about Nafta and the W.T.O., because not a one of these candidates has been willing to take the position that I've taken in saying that my first act in office will be to cancel Nafta and the W.T.O. We've lost over three million manufacturing jobs in this country. The president has that authority.

CAROL MOSELEY BRAUN
On the economy
We are going to have to take steps to reverse those trends that are sinking our economy and sinking our ability to create jobs. What would I do? In the first instance, I'd have health care reform. Seeing to it that every American has health care is not only a way to solve a social problem, but also a way to take the costs of health care off of the back of our productive sector, our manufacturers, our small businesses, so that we can create jobs here at home. Two, environmental protection. Creating whole new industries with technology transfer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); JOB CREATION (64%); MEDICARE (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); AL SHARPTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



104 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

New Afghan Constitution After Decades of War
Delegates at a national meeting approved a new Constitution for Afghanistan after three weeks of often tense debate. Their decision heralded a new era of democracy after a quarter century of war. A1

Blair Visits Troops in Iraq
Britain's prime minister, Tony Blair, surprised British troops stationed in southern Iraq with a visit to extol their courage and survey their progress. He underscored the radically changed role of modern warfare and the challenges ahead. A11

The Bush administration has decided to let the Kurdish region remain semiautonomous as part of a newly sovereign Iraq despite warnings not to divide the country into ethnic states. Officials attributed their new position to the rapid timetable for Iraqi self-rule. A1

Former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, after having success with European and Asian nations, faces the new challenge of persuading much poorer Arab nations to forgive an even larger Iraqi debt, including the financial legacy of Iraq's violent history in the region. A11

Settlement Criticism for Israel
Israel, which is facing sharp criticism for its settlement-building policies, announced that it would dismantle two small West Bank outposts and sought to play down a previously announced plan to expand settlements in the Golan Heights. The actions were seen by settlement opponents as cosmetic. A10

Pakistani-Indian Relations
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India has met with the Prime Minister of Pakistan, and will also meet with President Pervez Musharraf. The meetings are the first sessions in more than two years between the leaders of the estranged nuclear-armed neighbors. A10

New President for Georgia
Mikhail Saakashvili, a 36-year-old lawyer, led what he calls the Rose Revolution -- the peaceful ouster of President Eduard A. Shevardnadze from the office he had held for 12 years in Georgia. An independent survey of voters put his winning total at about 86 percent. A3

NATIONAL A12-15

Democrats Criticize Dean At Debate in Iowa
The Democratic presidential candidates repeatedly attacked Howard Dean at a debate in Johnston, Iowa, in a raucous series of exchanges on taxes and trade that reflected how tight the contest for the Iowa caucuses has become 15 days before the vote. A1

Economic Growth in the States
After three consecutive years of dismal fiscal news at the state level, officials are beginning to detect signs that the worst may be over, with the growing national economy and the rising stock market beginning to be felt in the states. But state budgets will continue to be pressured by slow job growth and rapidly rising health care costs, analysts say. A12

Detention Case Draws Interest
A coalition of news and legal organizations is seeking access to information about a post-Sept. 11, 2001, detention case now before the Supreme Court. A12

Teenager Signs Plea Deal
Lionel Tate, a Florida teenager whose life sentence for beating a 6-year-old playmate to death was overturned last month, signed documents pleading guilty to second-degree murder in a deal that could get him out of prison as early as this month. A14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Industry Reacts to Mad Cow
The American beef industry is now being forced to accept regulation it long fought, like the prohibition of selling downer cattle for human consumption. While some large companies had already abandoned these more controversial practices, the current crisis reveals how government regulators sided with companies that did not. A1

Mars Rover Transmits Images
The robotic rover named Spirit began transmitting pictures of its resting place on a broad plain in Gusev crater, near the Martian equator. Its arrival marked the beginning to a new stage in the planet's exploration. A1

As Spirit made its way to Mars, space enthusiasts around the world waited nervously for word that the latest in a string of missions there had gone as planned. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

City Schools Still Struggle With Overhaul's Changes
Four months into Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's historic overhaul, the New York City public school system is straining under the pressures of extraordinary change, showing sparks of improvement against a backdrop of widespread confusion. A1

Echoes of a Gangland Past
Though Pleasant Avenue in East Harlem was beginning to shed its reputation as a Mafia stronghold through its recent gentrification, a murder on Dec. 22 at Rao's, a restaurant with a reputation for exclusivity, placed the area in the headlines again for all the old reasons. B1

Outspoken Minister Retiring
The Rev. Raymond Graves, a Southern preacher who moved to Rochester 40 years ago, survived four attempts on his life and preached against riots, the drug scourge and controversial police shootings, is retiring. B1

Neediest Cases B4

ARTS E1-12

Punctuation Sells
There is a surprise No. 1 best seller in England this year and its subject might confound. Lynn Truss's "Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation" has 510,000 copies in print and its popularity has shocked everybody from her publisher to her family. E1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

National Champions, Partially
Louisiana State University defeated Oklahoma, 21-14, and won at least partial claim to the national championship in football. It is L.S.U.'s first national title since 1958. D1

N.F.L. Playoffs
In Green Bay, Wis., the hometown Packers defeated the Seattle Seahawks, 33-27, in overtime of a National Football Conference's wild-card game. In an American Football Conference wild-card matchup, Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning threw five touchdown passes in the 41-10 domination of the Denver Broncos. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-7

Internet-Based Phone Service Raises Question of Regulation
Internet telephone service raises a public policy question over whether the government should continue to play a role in ensuring that the telephone network is reliable and universally available. C1

Carmakers' Attention to Detail
Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman for product development, is trying to persuade his employer to focus on some of the smaller nuances of car detailing. This move is part of a larger strategy to rekindle America's desire for domestic cars. C1

Drop in Online Swapping Seen
The number of people swapping music files online has dropped dramatically since the middle of last year, according to a new report. Many attribute much of this decline to the Recording Industry Association of America's lawsuits against people accused of making many songs available for downloading. C1

Five of the larger computer, cellphone and electronics companies are cooperating to plan a system for protecting digital music, video and software from illicit file sharing. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B8

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Year of spending dangerously; the ephedra ban is not enough; Verlyn Klinkenborg on dairy cows and modern farming.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E5
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); BUDGETS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); LAWYERS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CAUCUSES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (71%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); INDIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GEORGIA (90%); ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



105 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
An online travel company tries to revive its fortunes using a gnome and $80 million.

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
TRAVELOCITY, the online travel agency that has lost substantial ground to Expedia and Orbitz in the last two years, hopes that a gallivanting gnome can help reverse its fortunes. 
 Travelocity's new advertising campaign borrows a conceit from the French film "Amelie," in which a garden gnome stolen from its owner is lugged around the world and photographed in various iconic locales. In the rendition by Travelocity's advertising agency, McKinney & Silver, a unit of Havas based in Raleigh, N.C., a gnome uses Travelocity to embark on adventures like cliff-diving in Mexico and cheese-eating in Quebec. 
 At $80 million, the campaign is the largest in the company's eight-year history. The success of the campaign is vital to the financial well-being of the money-losing Travelocity, a unit of Sabre Holdings. 
Henry Harteveldt, principal analyst at Forrester Research, said, "2004 will be the year in which Travelocity will defend its No.2 position or potentially lose that forever to Orbitz and become a perennial No.3. If that's the case, then Sabre has lost the game. Nobody remembers or cares about the No.3 player."
Travelocity dominated the online-travel agency business two years ago. According to PhoCusWright, a travel research firm, Travelocity accounted for 32 percent of United States online travel agency sales in 2001; this year it is No.2, with 20 percent of sales. Expedia, which had 30 percent of the market in 2001, has jumped ahead and now generates 40 percent of sales, according to PhoCusWright. 
Orbitz, which began operating in June 2001 and is controlled by a group of airlines, has climbed to a 17 percent share of the online travel agency market, from 8 percent in 2001.
Industry analysts attribute some of Travelocity's decline to its decision in 2000 to obtain hotel room inventory from Hotels.com, a consolidator, rather than through special agreements like those Expedia has negotiated directly with hotels.
Lorraine Sileo, an analyst with PhoCusWright, said Expedia's agreements allowed it to sell hotel rooms at a 15 percent to 30 percent profit margin. 
She estimates that Travelocity's agreement with Hotels.com -- which ended last summer -- meant that its profit margins on hotel sales were roughly half those of Expedia because it had to pay Hotels.com a commission on sales. Travelocity began developing its own hotel program in late 2002.
Analysts also fault Travelocity for being slow to develop customized vacation packages combining flights and hotels and other activities. Expedia introduced this option in 2001, but Travelocity only did so last year.
The chief executive of Travelocity, Michelle A. Peluso, said the fact that the company trailed Expedia in offering its own hotel and vacation programs was not necessarily a disadvantage.
"Sometimes when you're not first to market, if you're smart about it you can develop a better product for suppliers and consumers," she said. "That's what we did."
Paul Keung, an analyst for CIBC World Markets, said Travelocity has also been hurt by a five-year, $200 million agreement it signed in 2000 to become AOL's exclusive travel reservations engine. Although the two companies share whatever advertising revenues AOL's travel channels generate, Mr. Keung said the agreement had not been as profitable as expected because of declines in AOL's subscriber base.
The results of these agreements have made a dent in Travelocity's bottom line. While Travelocity posted a net profit of $12.2 million in 2001, Sabre Holdings said the agency had an operating loss of $17.4 million in the first nine months of 2003, compared with an operating loss of $2.5 million in the first nine months of 2002. Sabre Holdings repurchased Travelocity in 2002 after spinning it off in 2000. 
Travelocity's competitors, meanwhile, have used engaging and sometimes wacky advertising, as well as deal-making, to become profitable. Expedia, a unit of InterActiveCorp, has consistently been in the black since the first quarter of 2001. It had a profit of $66 million in 2002, and profits of $26.9 million and $41.3 million in the first and second quarters of 2003. 
InterActiveCorp -- which bought a controlling interest in Expedia in 2002 and the remainder of the company last August, and which also owns Hotels.com and the discount online travel company Hotwire -- no longer breaks out Expedia's earnings. But its travel companies, of which Expedia is the largest, reported operating income of $80.1 million in the third quarter of 2003. 
Orbitz, which raised $316 million in an initial public offering last month, posted a profit of $3.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 and a profit of $3.9 million in the third quarter of 2003, according to the offer's registration statement.
Travelocity executives hope the humorous new campaign can help the company attain those profitable heights as well. 
"It's a concerted effort to help differentiate Travelocity from our competitors as a site for savvy travelers," said Susan McLaughlin, Travelocity's vice president for marketing and merchandising. 
Although the new advertising begins today, the company introduced a teaser campaign in mid-December. This effort included small ads that described the missing gnome and listed the address of a Web site, www.whereismygnome.com, which in turn contains a pseudo-newscast featuring a television reporter who discusses the theft of the gnome. The newscast also ran as a TV spot during the broadcast of the Rose Bowl on Thursday. 
"Because we only have one chance to relaunch the brand, we wanted to do it in a big way, with a teaser campaign," said David Baldwin, executive creative director of McKinney & Silver, which replaced the Richards Group in Dallas as Travelocity's agency in October. "It's all about generating conversation." 
Why a gnome? "When we looked at the category, we found people had functional bonds to the sites but no emotional bonds," Mr. Baldwin said. "One way to create this bond is through likeability, and the gnome is a very likable character." 
Ms. Sileo of PhoCusWright said customers' reactions to the traveling gnome would be critical because Travelocity's rivals also planned to step up their marketing efforts. 
"Because travel is such a commodity, there are only two things that are proprietary to an online agency, its brand and its technology," Ms. Sileo said, adding that consumers who spend on travel on average shop around on three Web sites before they make a purchase. "It's got to keep its brand out there, it always has to be top of mind."
Ms. Peluso of Travelocity said her company had not started advertising its new products until now because they were under development.
"2004 is very different for us," she said. "We have a better product than our competitors. We're very excited, and now we can scream it from the mountaintops."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Travelocity's new campaign tracks a garden gnome across the globe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); TRAVEL AGENTS (92%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); SALES FIGURES (74%); RESORTS (73%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); DIVING (71%); SALES COMPENSATION (70%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); COMMISSION PAY (65%); AIRLINES (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; HOTELS AND RESORTS 

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (96%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (90%); HOTELS.COM LP (82%); MCKINNEY & SILVER LLC (58%); HAVAS SA (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); SABRE HOLDINGS CORP (56%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (96%); OWW (NYSE) (90%); HAV (PAR) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (82%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



106 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Fed Governor Defends Call To Hold Rates At Low Level 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
A governor of the Federal Reserve Board, Ben S. Bernanke, argued Sunday that the central bank was correctly holding down interest rates in order to nurture an economic recovery in which the inflation rate "is very nearly at the bottom of the acceptable range."
 The recovery is raising concerns among some Wall Street investors and forecasters that growing demand will soon cause inflation to rise unless the Fed begins to raise interest rates to dampen activity. Addressing this concern, Mr. Bernanke agreed that the Fed's interest rate policy was "unusually accommodative in historical terms" for this stage of a recovery. 
 But, speaking here at the annual meeting of the Allied Social Science Associations, he said, "That accommodation is justified, I believe, by the current very low level of inflation, and by the productivity gains and the weakness in the labor market, both of which suggest that inflation is likely to remain subdued."
Mr. Bernanke, an economist who came to the Fed from Princeton University, has built a reputation as an influential policy maker. His preference for keeping down interest rates for the time being paralleled the views of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, which he made in his speech here on Saturday.
While the recovery is about six months old, Mr. Bernanke said, the inflation rate is low -- 1.1 percent by one measure. Growth in productivity is rising, lowering production costs and inflationary pressures. With new hiring still weak, true unemployment is probably greater than the official national rate of 5.9 percent suggests, the result being that wage pressure is close to nil.
"Core inflation rates in the United States," Mr. Bernanke said, "are as low today as they have been in 40 years, and they have been trending downward." The core rate as measured by the Consumer Price Index fell to 1.1 percent in November from 2 percent in the year-earlier month.
Mr. Bernanke said that "some remain unconvincedthat the Fed is pursuing the right course" in holding the federal funds rate -- the interest rate at which banks lend to each other overnight that influences rates on many business and consumer loans -- at only 1 percent.
Low inflation "is of utmost importance to the nation's economic health," he said, offering reassurance to the markets. But concerns over the inflationary potential of a weakening dollar and rising commodity prices are misplaced, he said.
The recent movements in commodity prices, he said, "are in fact quite normal for this stage of the business cycle" and secondly, he added, "the direct effects of commodity price inflation on consumer inflation are empirically miniscule."
As for the dollar's decline, that has been mostly against a few major currencies, particularly the euro. But measured against the currencies of America's important trading partners, China and India, for example, the decline has been much less. And rather than pass on to American consumers the rising cost of imported merchandise, Mr. Bernanke said, foreign producers "tend to absorb most of the effect of changes in the value of the dollar." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (61%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



107 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Hollinger Board Accused of Lax Supervision 

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
The board of Hollinger International repeatedly approved deals benefiting the company's chairman and chief executive, Conrad M. Black, and other executives without independent analysis, fairness opinions or extensive discussion of the rationale for such decisions, according to a lawsuit filed by a major Hollinger shareholder. 
 In numerous instances, the lawsuit says, the agreements were costly to Hollinger International, but the board agreed after Lord Black and other company executives recommended the deals without any independent confirmation. 
 The suit -- filed in Delaware Chancery Court in early December by the hedge fund Cardinal Value Equity Partners but unsealed late Friday -- accuses the board of letting Lord Black and his executives "line their pockets at shareholder expense."
The Hollinger board had many prominent members in the time covered by the suit including Henry A. Kissinger; A. Alfred Taubman, who remained a director even while serving a prison sentence related to his role in a price-fixing scheme as chairman of Sotheby's; Marie-Josee Kravis, an economist married to the financier Henry Kravis; and Barbara Amiel Black, Lord Black's wife. Neither Ms. Kravis nor Mr. Taubman is now on the board. 
The suit said that there were transactions where the board rubber-stamped sales of Hollinger assets to companies controlled by Lord Black and Hollinger executives, paid them noncompete fees or raised their compensation without question in a series of deals that cost Hollinger $300 million or more. 
The suit, filed against present and past Hollinger directors as well as two separate companies controlled by Lord Black, seeks damages as well as a court order to prevent the company from making any deal beneficial to its management. It had been under seal because many of the accusations were based on notes from board meetings that Cardinal Value Equity had obtained.
Hollinger, which owns The Daily Telegraph of London, The Chicago Sun-Times and The Jerusalem Post, has been embroiled in a series of revelations regarding payments to executives including Lord Black, who has resigned as chief executive. 
On Wednesday, Lord Black failed to make an initial $700,000 payment that was due as part of the $7.2 million that he had agreed to repay Hollinger by June, according to a person close to the company. The $7.2 million was part of $32 million paid out to Hollinger corporate executives in noncompete fees that were not authorized by the board.
A spokesman for Lord Black said: "He has yet to complete his inquiry into the facts underlying whether the payment was in fact authorized. He is working with the company's special committee to answer that question."
The special committee, which was established under the leadership of Hollinger's new chief executive, Gordon A. Paris, has hired Richard C. Breeden, a former head of the Securities and Exchange Commission to review actions by management and the board.
The company and Cardinal have asked that the lawsuit not proceed until the committee has completed its work.
The suit has a litany of examples of what it says was a quiescent board. For example, at a 2001 meeting, the board's audit committee -- which included James R. Thompson, the former governor of Illinois; Richard R. Burt, a former ambassador to Germany; and Ms. Kravis -- approved the sale for $1 of two publications to Horizon Publications, a company controlled by Lord Black and David Radler, Hollinger's former chief operating officer.
The explanation of the sale of the properties, which had negative cash flow, was that their fair market value was obtained. But there was never an independent valuation or a fairness opinion. Nor did the committee even discuss, the suit says, why a company controlled by Lord Black should sell properties for so little, if a second company controlled by Lord Black obviously believed they could be profitable. 
At that same meeting, the committee also agreed to raise the annual management fees paid to Ravelston, a company controlled by Lord Black more than 7 percent over the 2000 fees of $24 million. 
But according to the suit's description of the minutes of the meeting, there was no independent analysis of the payments, no review of their propriety or discussions of whether those services could be obtained for less money from other companies. The meeting, which took half an hour, also approved raises for the fees paid to board members without any explanation or review of the propriety of the raises. 
Cardinal Value Equity is affiliated with Cardinal Capital Management, which holds 1.869 million Hollinger shares, making it the company's seventh-largest investor. 
Lord Black and Ms. Kravis declined to speak about the lawsuit and Mr. Burt did not return phone calls seeking comment. Mr. Thompson, however, did offer a comment. "Just because someone alleges something in a lawsuit does not mean it is true," he said.
In another deal struck in 2000 with little board oversight, the suit says, Hollinger agreed to swap profitable newspapers that it owned for less profitable papers that belonged to a company owned by Lord Black. According to the suit, Lord Black's company, Horizon Publications, did not yet own the newspapers it planned to swap.
As to why Hollinger would swap profitable papers for less profitable papers, the company argued it would have room to improve the performance of the less profitable papers. The entire transaction, the suit said, was done on the recommendation of Mr. Radler and Jerry Strader, a Hollinger employee.
Since Mr. Radler was involved with Horizon, he could benefit from the deal, for which the board never got any independent evaluation. 
After some shareholders had already raised objections about corporate spending on Lord Black, the board was informed by Hollinger's accounting firm, KPMG, that it was difficult to assess whether Lord Black's use of a corporate jet was personal or business reasons.
Nevertheless the audit committee agreed to continue to pay for the jet for security reasons. The audit committee also approved 300,000 Canadian dollars (US$231,428) that had been spent to staff one of Lord Black's homes and previously undisclosed payments to Ms. Amiel (referred to in the suit as "Mrs. Black"). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); PRICE FIXING (77%); AUCTIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SENTENCING (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: HOLLINGER INC (92%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (58%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HOLLINGER INTERNATIONAL INC (HLR) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (77%); A ALFRED TAUBMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



108 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1170 words

PERSON: Michael Straight 

HEADLINE: Michael Straight, Who Wrote of Connection to Spy Ring, Is Dead at 87 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:
Michael Straight, the patrician former magazine publisher who described in a political memoir his lingering involvement with Soviet spies whom he had first met when they were all students at Cambridge University, died yesterday at home in Chicago. He was 87 and also had a home on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts.
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Arthur Mahon, his lawyer. 
 In a life of rubbing shoulders with the privileged, Mr. Straight went through a series of identities, from Communist during his student days at Trinity College, Cambridge, to reluctant Soviet agent in New Deal Washington to liberal anti-Communist during the cold war. He also went through a series of jobs, including economist at the State Department, editor and publisher of The New Republic magazine and, in the Nixon and Ford administrations, deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. 
He confessed all in his memoir, "After Long Silence" (1983), citing his hesitancy to spy when ordered to do so in 1937 by Anthony Blunt, then a young Cambridge don, and insisting that upon taking a job with the State Department under Roosevelt, the only papers he passed to the Soviet agent he knew as Michael Green were political and economic analyses written by himself.
He added that in 1951, a decade after he had turned against the Communist Party, apparently over his objections to the Nazi-Soviet pact, he ran into Guy Burgess, once his fellow student at Cambridge, on a Washington street corner and assumed he must be running a spy ring out of the nearby British Embassy. He said he warned Burgess to stop and go home or he would expose him. Shortly after, Burgess defected to the Soviet Union with his colleague and lover, Donald Maclean.
Mr. Straight's own exposure came finally in 1963 when he was offered a top arts post in the Kennedy Administration. Fearing a background check, he went to Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., a special assistant to the president, who in turn directed him to the Justice Department. His talks with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and British intelligence led to the unmasking of Blunt, by then knighted and the curator of Queen Elizabeth's art collection. Mr. Straight turned down the Kennedy Administration post, although some years later he took the position of deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts.
Although avowedly written as an apology and explanation, "After Long Silence" was not greeted with great sympathy. Critics on the right accused Mr. Straight of confessing to the F.B.I. only to clear his career path and speculated whether blowing the whistle sooner might not have saved lives. Gentler reviewers acknowledged the book's well-meaning thoughtfulness but accused the author of sentimentality and narcissism. Mr. Straight himself wondered in the book why his life had not added up to more.
Michael Whitney Straight was born Sept. 1, 1916, in New York City, the third and youngest child of Willard D. Straight, an investment banker with J. P. Morgan & Company, and Dorothy Payne Whitney Straight, an heiress. Together in 1914 the couple had started The New Republic. Their elder two children were Whitney, who became a racing-car driver and head of British Overseas Airway Corporation, and Beatrice, who became a distinguished actress.
Mr. Straight was educated at the Lincoln School in New York City and at Dartington Hall, the progressive English school founded and run by his mother and her second husband, Leonard Knight Elmhirst, whom she had married in 1925. Her first husband died in 1918 of septic pneumonia while serving with the American Expeditionary Forces in France.
After Dartington Hall Mr. Straight spent a year at the London School of Economics to offset literary tendencies in himself that he saw as useless to a world in political crisis. Going on to Cambridge in 1934, he became a member of the circle around John Maynard Keynes, socialized with young radical patricians like himself and joined the Communist Party, he said in his memoir, mostly in sympathy with its Popular Front objectives of supporting democrat governments against the rising tide of Nazism.
Moving from Cambridge to Washington in 1937 -- after spurning Blunt's order that he take a job on Wall Street -- he worked as an economist for the Department of State. He continued to pursue both politics and his stratospheric social life, sharing a house with Joseph Alsop, drafting speeches for and dining with the Roosevelts, and writing his analytic memorandums, some of which he passed on to Soviet intelligence.
In September 1939 he married Belinda Crompton, a child psychiatrist. They had five children, David, Michael, Susan Straight, Dina Krosnick and Dorothy Straight, all of whom survive him, as do four grandchildren. The couple divorced in 1969, and in May 1974 Mr. Straight married Nina Gore Auchincloss Steers, a half-sister of Gore Vidal and stepsister of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. They subsequently divorced. In 1998 he married Katharine Gould, a child psychiatrist. She, too, survives him.
In 1940, Mr. Straight returned to the State Department and then became Washington correspondent for The New Republic, which his mother still financed. He assumed the magazine's editorship in 1941 and shifted its stance from neutrality toward Europe to support for fighting Hitler and Fascism.
He served in the Army Air Forces from 1942 to 1945, a period when he learned to fly a B-17 but to his disappointment was stationed the whole while in the American Midwest. In 1946 he returned to The New Republic and became its publisher, remaining in that post until 1956. He enlisted Henry A. Wallace as the magazine's editor until Wallace, the left-leaning former vice president, became the Progressive Party's presidential candidate in 1948. Mr. Straight shifted editorial policy to a position opposing Stalinism and supporting the Marshall Plan. Yet he fought Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's brand of anti-Communism, publishing a book critical of both the senator and Communism, "Trial by Television" (1954).
After his mother's withdrawal of support of the magazine he enlisted new patrons and gradually ended his connection, reverting to his youthful interest in the arts. He turned to novel writing, publishing "Carrington" (1960) and "A Very Small Remnant" (1963), both westerns that received respectful reviews, as well as "Happy and Hopeless" (1979), a love story set in the Kennedy administration that he published himself. His memoir "On Green Spring Farm: The Life and Times of One Family in Fairfax County, Va., 1942 to 1966" is to be published in March by Devon Press.
From 1969 to 1977 he was deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts.
But his association with the Cambridge left never ceased to haunt him, and he went on defending his actions for the remainder of his life. To the end he insisted, as he put it in a 1995 letter to The London Review of Books responding to a reference to him as "a Cambridge Spy," "I was not a spy in the accepted usage of that word."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Straight in a photo for his 1983 book "After Long Silence." (Photo by Arnold Kremer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); POLITICS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WRITERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ART COLLECTING (73%); LAWYERS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); CANCER (56%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (56%)

Christopher Lehmann-Haupt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2004 



109 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVATORY 

BYLINE:  By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
Pushy, Pushy, Pushy
Parasites are pushy creatures, invading their hosts in one way or another. The golden nematode, a parasite that invades tomato and potato plants, takes pushiness to an extreme, penetrating a host plant at a rapid rate (about two minutes per cell layer).
 Now, scientists in the Netherlands and Scotland may have discovered the secret to its speed. The nematode is pushy in a novel way: it produces proteins that make plant cell walls loosen up as it moves in. 
 The proteins, a type called expansins, had previously been identified only in plants. They induce the cell walls to extend and relax and are thought to play a role in both plant growth and the disassembly of cell walls. Although the precise details of their function is not known, they weaken bonds between a wall's cellulose fibrils and compounds called glucans that hold the fibrils together.
The researchers identified a nematode gene responsible for the proteins and showed that they were produced in a juvenile stage of the parasite, by esophageal glands. Their research was reported in the journal Nature.
Many organisms that get their food from plants use enzymes called glycanases to break down cell walls completely. The researchers found that golden nematodes produce glycanases, too, at the same time that they produce the expansins.
The researchers suggest that by loosening up the walls, the expansins make the wall's component parts more accessible to the glycanases. So the plant tissue is broken down faster and the parasite can enter sooner.

Hydrogen's Hurdles
All the talk of a future economy based on hydrogen fuel is well and good, but there are many technological hurdles to overcome, not the least of which is figuring out how to store all that explosive gas efficiently and safely.
Liquefying hydrogen for storage is energy intensive because it must be cooled to about minus 425 degrees Fahrenheit. And since there is no practical way to keep a storage container that cold, boil-off is a problem.
It can be kept at room temperature as a compressed gas, but much less hydrogen can be stored in a given volume this way.
A new solution has been proposed by scientists at the University of Chicago and the Carnegie Institution of Washington. They suggest storing hydrogen molecules in tiny ice cages.
Specifically, they write in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, hydrogen could be stored in a network of frozen water molecules that has a crystalline structure, known as a clathrate. Gas molecules are trapped in cavities within the crystal and help stabilize it.
Clathrates, also known as gas hydrates, occur in nature, under the seafloor and in Arctic permafrost, for instance, where they trap immense amounts of methane. But the researchers synthesized their own, using hydrogen as the trapped gas.
The researchers found that their clathrate could exist at about minus 320 degrees under normal pressure. Then, when the clathrate was warmed to about minus 200, the hydrogen would be released.
Minus 320 degrees might not seem like much of an improvement over minus 425, but in fact a clathrate at the higher temperature could be kept cold through the use of liquid nitrogen. The researchers say that much more work remains -- for one thing, other clathrates may be more effective -- but that the approach is promising.

Next Stop, Mercury
 All eyes may be on Mars these days, but NASA engineers also have their sights set on Mercury, the innermost planet. The agency's first mission to orbit it is scheduled to lift off in May, and the spacecraft, known as Messenger, has been undergoing reliability tests.
Messenger will take images of Mercury's surface and conduct other studies when it reaches the planet in 2009.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nurit Karlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CHEMISTRY (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); ENZYMES (76%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) NETHERLANDS (73%); ARCTIC (71%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



110 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Food on the Table 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Our So-Called Boom," by Paul Krugman (column, Dec. 30):
 Mr. Krugman tells the tale of two recoveries -- one for the rich, and one for the majority of the population -- behind the Commerce Department figures hailed as harbingers for good times ahead. 
 The truth is that Americans shopping at the low-priced chains are also finding it difficult to buy food for their children. The administration's own figures show 35 million Americans, including 13 million children, lived in homes that struggled to put food on the table last year, a one-year increase of 1.7 million people. 
The growth of hunger and poverty in our nation is the reality behind the headlines of rising corporate profits. A political road map out of this economic divide could begin with policies that support the greatest good for the growing number of Americans with the greatest need. The first stop on the road map should be focused on our hungry children.

DAVID BECKMANN
Washington, Dec. 30, 2003

The writer is president of Bread for the World.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); BREAD FOR THE WORLD (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



111 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1999 words

HEADLINE: Slim Pickings: Looking Beyond Ephedra 

BYLINE:  By MARY DUENWALD

 BODY:
Now that ephedra is to be banned, the millions of people who have been taking the supplement to lose weight or control it may find themselves looking for an alternative. But weight-loss and nutrition experts nationwide say that no other over-the-counter supplements advertised asweight-loss aids are as effective as ephedra.
 "I'm not pushing ephedra, and I wouldn't recommend it to anybody, but several very good studies have shown that ephedra combined with caffeine promotes weight loss," said Dr. Ken Fujioka, director of the Nutrition and Metabolic Research Center at the Scripps Clinic in San Diego. "I don't know of any other over-the-counter preparation that has shown that kind of consistent effect." 
 Claims that other supplements -- from bitter orange to green tea extract to herbal laxatives -- can promote weight loss are not backed up by long-term studies in humans. 
"There are no over-the-counter dietary supplements, including herbal supplements, that lead to any significant amount of sustained weight loss," said Dr. Donald Hensrud of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
The Food and Drug Administration announced the ban on ephedra last Tuesday, after a review of 16,000 reports of adverse reactions that included heart attack, stroke and sudden death. Ephedrine, the active ingredient in ephedra, a plant also known as ma huang, is a stimulant that can increase heart rate, raise blood pressure and speed up brain activity.
Ephedra, which has been used in China for centuries to treat asthma and other breathing problems, has been promoted in the United States for its ability to enhance sports performance and increase energy. Little evidence exists to support those claims.
But studies have indicated that it can help people lose about two pounds a month more than is lost by people taking placebos, according to a recent analysis of dozens of studies conducted for the F.D.A. by the RAND Corporation.
Ephedra is especially effective when it is combined with caffeine, Dr. Fujioka said. Over the course of several months, the two agents can help people lose 5 to 10 percent of their body weight, he said. The only other weight-loss aids known to be that effective are prescription drugs.
Doctors generally frown on the use of ephedra, not only because it can have dangerous side effects but because supplements are unregulated by any government agency, so consumers cannot be sure that pills actually contain the amount of ephedra described on the label.
Yet millions of Americans consume ephedra products, according to the American Herbal Products Association, a trade organization. Some consumers have stopped taking the supplement as news of its adverse side effects has spread. But others are reportedly stocking up on supplies before the ban, which will take effect 60 days after the F.D.A. publishes a regulation stating its reasons for withdrawing ephedra from the market. 
Justin Varuzzo of Lagrangeville, N.Y., buys ephedra products online because he cannot get them in his home state. (New York, Illinois and California banned ephedra sales earlier.) After Tuesday's announcement, Mr. Varuzzo had trouble finding a Web site that was not sold out of his preferred brand of ephedra products. "I have a pretty good supply for now," he said. "After the ban, I will just try to find alternative methods of getting it."
Mr. Varuzzo, 23, has been taking ephedra on and off for six years. 
"I've yet to read anything that really suggests this stuff is dangerous if you take it according to the directions," Mr. Varuzzo said. He said that he was healthy and did not have high blood pressure and that he took the supplement only for three months at a time. "The only side effect I've ever had is a little bit of a speedy feeling," he said, "the same feeling you'd get from drinking three cups of coffee."
On Tuesday, the F.D.A. advised consumers to stop taking ephedra supplements immediately.
Quitting abruptly is safe and does not bring on withdrawal symptoms. But people who have used the supplement to lose weight may see the pounds return
"Ephedra suppresses appetite, and when someone goes off it, it's likely their appetite will increase and they will regain the weight they lost," said Dr. Jonathan Waitman, an internist at the Comprehensive Weight Control Program at New York Weill Cornell Center.
Ephedra users who look to supplement shelves for alternatives may find, for example, bitter orange, which is used in many products now advertised as "ephedra-free." The active ingredient in bitter orange is synephrine, a stimulant with pharmacological properties similar to those of ephedrine. "Like ephedrine, it leads to constriction of blood vessels," said Dr. Stephen Bent, a physician at the University of California at San Francisco, who has studied the health risks of ephedra. "But there have been very few investigations into whether it's safe."
Bitter orange, like ephedra, is often combined with caffeine. "The goal of these products is to increase metabolic rate, to burn more calories," Dr. Bent said. "But just about anything that increases metabolic rate is going to raise heart rate, blood pressure and temperature. In people with obesity who may have diabetes or high blood pressure or vascular disease, these products are potentially dangerous, and should be studied."
A few studies of bitter orange have been conducted on laboratory animals, but these do not demonstrate that it causes weight loss in humans, said Dr. Richard J. Ko, a research scientist for the California Department of Health Services. Comparisons of synephrine's chemical structure with that of ephedrine suggest that synephrine may not be as strong, Dr. Ko said. "But nobody has studied this," he added.
Green tea extract, another weight-loss supplement, has been studied in humans. In one investigation, the substance was given to 10 young men. Researchers found that it could boost a person's energy expenditure over 24 hours by 4 percent. But whether that can lead to weight loss is unknown.
"What patients have told me is that ephedra had been more stimulating," said Dr. Waitman. "They didn't feel as much of an effect with green tea."
Green tea extract appears to have no adverse side effects, Dr. Waitman said, but long-term studies have yet to be done.
Still another plant substance, extracted from the fruit of the Garcinia cambogia tree, from Indonesia, is said to help people lose weight. The fruit contains hydroxycitric acid, or HCA, which is said to interfere with the synthesis of fat cells. But so far, studies in humans suggest it is ineffective, Dr. Ko said.
A variety of herbal laxatives typically sold in the form of tea, including senna, cascara, aloe and rhubarb root, are said to promote weight loss. But these cause the body to lose water only. "We have not recommended laxatives or diuretics for years and years," Dr. Hensrud said. "You don't lose fat, and they have the potential to cause electrolyte imbalances."
In draining water from the body, laxatives also draw out calcium and potassium. Potassium deficiency can cause heart problems, which are potentially fatal. For that reason, in California, laxative teas containing senna carry a warning label.
Chitosan, a product made from the shells of shrimp and crabs, is said to be able to prevent the absorption of fat in the digestive tract, but no evidence exists to back up that claim, Dr. Ko said. "There is some evidence to show there are side effects, including nausea and vomiting," he said.
Chromium and vanadium are two heavy metals that are advertised for their ability to help people use blood sugar more efficiently. But here again, said Dr. Ko, "there is absolutely no study I'm aware of that shows they are useful in weight loss."
Ginseng and ginkgo are also used in some herbal weight-loss preparations, but these, too, appear to be useless for weight loss, Dr. Ko said.
A few prescription drugs are used for weight loss. Phentermine (brand name Ionamin), for example, suppresses appetite. The F.D.A. advises that this drug, which is sold under various brand names, be used no longer than 12 weeks at a time because few long-term studies of its safety and effectiveness have been done. But doctors can prescribe the drug for longer periods. Studies of people who have taken phentermine for six months suggest that they can lose from 4 to 20 pounds more than people who take placebo pills.
Phentermine, a stimulant, raises blood pressure. Side effects include insomnia, dry mouth, constipation, palpitations and high blood pressure.
Sibutramine (sold as Meridia by Abbott Laboratories) acts somewhat like an antidepressant: it keeps the chemicals serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine active in the brain's synapses longer than usual. "It's not an appetite suppressant," said Madelyn H. Fernstrom, director of the weight management center at the University of Pittsburgh, "but it increases a person's sense of fullness on less food.
Sibutramine can also raise blood pressure, Dr. Hensrud said.
Sibutramine costs from $2.98 to $3.68 a day, depending on where it is bought, according to a recent review of diet drugs in The New England Journal of Medicine. 
Orlistat (brand name Xenical, made by Roche) is a diet drug that works not on the brain but on the digestive tract. It blocks the absorption of one-third of the fat a person eats. For this reason, it works best for people who eat a lot of fat.
"What you have to look out for when using this medication is what happens to the fat that is not absorbed," Dr. Waitman said. "It goes through your gastrointestinal tract rapidly, so people have diarrhea or oily discharge."
That effect alone can discourage people from eating as much fat as they may be accustomed to. It also can lead to loss of fat-soluble vitamins, so doctors typically prescribe a daily multivitamin to patients who take orlistat. The cost of orlistat is about $3.56 a day. Both sibutramine and orlistat have been shown to help people lose 5 to 9 percent of their body weight in a year.
Some drugs not specifically designed for dieting can also help people lose weight. The anti-seizure medication topiramate (brand name Topamax, made by Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, a unit of Johnson & Johnson), for example, has been found to reduce bingeing behavior. "It decreases obsessional thinking about food and helps people control their eating," Dr. Waitman said. 
Side effects from topiramate include sleep problems, mood changes and difficulty with memory, concentration and attention -- results that cause some weight-loss doctors to avoid prescribing it. "Skilled weight-loss specialists will use this medication, but I think the field is divided," Dr. Fernstrom said. "I am with the group that says this drug's side effect profile is too significant to use for weight loss when there are so many other options." 
Lesley Fishman, a spokeswoman for Ortho-McNeil, maker of Topamax, noted that the drug was now approved by the F.D.A. only for treating epilepsy and migraine headaches. The company is looking into creating a controlled-release form of the drug for obesity treatment, but it has not yet started clinical trials.
Bupropion (Wellbutrin), the antidepressant made by GlaxoSmithKline, can also help some patients lose weight. "It's effective for people with low mood and a preoccupation with food," Dr. Fernstrom said.
Metformin (Glucophage, made by Bristol-Myers Squibb), a drug that is used to treat diabetes, can help people lose weight even if they are not diabetic but still have high insulin levels. Metformin lowers insulin levels and helps keep the body's blood sugar and insulin balance stable, and that can reduce a person's food cravings, Dr. Fernstrom said.
No weight-loss pill can be expected to work well by itself, doctors say. 
"Medications can be good tools," said Dr. Fernstrom, "but they don't replace the person's need to learn to manage hunger and fullness. There will never be a drug that will permanently suppress the drive to eat. That's something that has to be managed."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Jan. 6 about alternatives to the banned weight-loss supplement ephedra referred incorrectly to approved uses for another drug, topiramate (sold by Ortho-McNeil as Topamax). The Food and Drug Administration has approved it as an add-on treatment for epilepsy. Approval to treat migraine headaches or as a single treatment for epilepsy is pending.
The article also misstated Ortho-McNeil's plans to test a controlled-release form of topiramate. The company plans to test its potential to treat people with obesity who also have Type 2 diabetes, not just those with obesity.
The article also referred imprecisely to the government role in regulating such supplements. The Food and Drug Administration indeed exercises some regulatory oversight, by requiring that the products contain the ingredients listed on the labels. But it does not require approval before sales (as it does for prescription drugs), nor does it require manufacturers to prove the products are safe and effective before sale.

GRAPHIC: Photo: There are many alternatives to ephedra among over-the-counter weight-loss supplements, but experts say none are as effective. (Photo by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (90%); DIETING (90%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (89%); HERBAL MEDICINE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (71%); BRAIN (71%); HEART DISEASE (70%); STROKES (65%); ASTHMA (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



112 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: The Broken Promise of Nafta 

BYLINE:  By Joseph E. Stiglitz; Joseph E. Stiglitz, professor of economics at Columbia University and author of "The Roaring 90's," was chief economist of the World Bank from 1997 to 2000. He won the Nobel Prize in economics in 2001.

 BODY:
The celebrations of Nafta's 10th anniversary are far more muted than those involved in its creation might have hoped. In the United States, the North American Free Trade Agreement has failed to fulfill the most dire warnings of its opponents and the most fervent expectations of its supporters. In Mexico, however, the treaty remains controversial and even harmful -- as do America's efforts to liberalize trade throughout the hemisphere.
 There is some good news. In America, the "giant sucking sound of jobs being pulled out of this country" that Ross Perot predicted never quite materialized. The first six years of Nafta saw unemployment in the United States fall to new lows. (Of course, to most economists there was little basis for Mr. Perot's worries in the first place. Maintaining full employment is the concern of monetary and fiscal policy, not of trade policy.) Nafta has brought some benefits to Mexico as well; it was trade with America, fueled by Nafta -- not the bailout of Wall Street lenders -- that was responsible for Mexico's quick recovery after the financial crisis of December 1994. 
 But while Mexico benefited in the early days, especially with exports from factories near the United States border, those benefits have waned, both with the weakening of the American economy and intense competition from China. Meanwhile, poor Mexican corn farmers face an uphill battle competing with highly subsidized American corn, while relatively better-off Mexican city dwellers benefit from lower corn prices. And as all but one of Mexico's major banks have been sold to foreign banks, local small- and medium-sized enterprises -- particularly in nonexport sectors like small retail -- worry about access to credit.
Growth in Mexico over the past 10 years has been a bleak 1 percent on a per capita basis -- better than in much of the rest of Latin America, but far poorer than earlier in the century. From 1948 to 1973, Mexico grew at an average annual rate of 3.2 percent per capita. (By contrast, in the 10 years of Nafta, even with the East Asian crisis, Korean growth averaged 4.3 percent and China's 7 percent in per capita terms.)
And while the hope was that Nafta would reduce income disparities between the United States and its southern neighbor, in fact they have grown -- by 10.6 percent in the last decade. Meanwhile, there has been disappointing progress in reducing poverty in Mexico, where real wages have been falling at the rate of 0.2 percent a year.
These outcomes should not have come as a surprise. Nafta does give Mexico a slight advantage over other trading partners. But with its low tax base, low investment in education and technology, and high inequality, Mexico would have a hard time competing with a dynamic China. Nafta enhanced Mexico's ability to supply American manufacturing firms with low-cost parts, but it did not make Mexico into an independently productive economy.
When President Bill Clinton first asked the Council of Economic Advisers about the economic importance of Nafta, early in his administration, our response was that potential geopolitical benefits were far more important than the economic benefits. (Similarly, the European Union, for all of the economic benefits that it has brought, is mainly a political project.)
America perhaps stood more to gain economically than Mexico, but the concrete gains were likely to be small on both sides. Tariff rates on both sides were already very low, with Mexico's tariffs being slightly higher than America's, and Nafta would not eliminate important nontariff barriers. The disparity in income across the Mexican border is among the largest anywhere, and the resulting migration pressure was enormous. Doing what little America could do to enhance growth in Mexico would be good for Mexico, and good for America; and it was the right thing to do for our neighbor to the south.
Unfortunately, much of the goodwill that the United States might have expected has been squandered. First, America attempted to use barriers to keep out Mexican products that began to make inroads in our markets -- from tomatoes to avocados to trucks to brooms. Despite the impressive efforts of workers' rights groups, efforts to ease the life of immigrants have stalled. Recent moves in California to prevent illegal immigrants from receiving driver's licenses and medical care have been a depressing sign that conditions for Mexican immigrants in this country are getting worse.
Of course, Nafta was a far more modest project than the European Union. It did not envision the free movement of labor, though that would have had a far larger effect on regional output than the free movement of capital, on which it focused. It did not envision a common set of economic regulations, or even a common currency. But hidden in Nafta was a new set of rights -- for business -- that potentially weakened democracy throughout North America.
Under Nafta, if foreign investors believe they are being harmed by regulations (no matter how well justified), they may sue for damages in special tribunals without the transparency afforded by normal judicial proceedings. If successful, they receive direct compensation from the federal government. Environmental, health and safety regulations have been attacked and put into jeopardy. To date, suits with claims in excess of $13 billion have been filed.
While many of the cases are still pending, it is clear that there was not a full and open debate of the consequences of Nafta before passage. Conservatives have long sought to receive compensation for regulations that hurt them, and American courts and Congress have usually rejected these attempts. Now businesses may have accomplished indirectly, through treaty, what they could not get more openly through the democratic political process.
Meanwhile, those harmed by the actions of the foreign firms, for instance by what they do to the environment, do not have comparable protections of appealing to an international tribunal and receiving compensation. The concern is that Nafta will stifle regulation, no matter how important for the environment, health or safety.
All of this has important implications for the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas, and for countries thinking of signing onto bilateral trade agreements with the United States. Signing a free trade agreement is neither an easy nor an assured road to prosperity. The United States has said it does not want agriculture or nontariff barriers to be on the table in these talks. But while it refuses to give in on these points, it wants Latin American countries to compromise their national sovereignties and to agree to investor "protections."
In fact, the United States has been demanding that countries fully liberalize their capital markets just as the International Monetary Fund has finally found that such liberalization promotes neither growth nor stability in developing countries. Unfortunately, many of the smaller and weaker countries will probably agree in the quixotic hope that by linking themselves to America, they will partake of America's prosperity.
In the long run, while particular special-interest groups may benefit from such an unfair trade treaty, America's national interests -- in having stable and prosperous neighbors -- are not well served. Already, the manner in which the United States is bullying the weaker countries of Central and South America into accepting its terms is generating enormous resentment.
If these trade agreements do no better for them than Nafta has done for Mexico, then both peace and prosperity in the hemisphere will be at risk.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CORN MARKETS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); CORN FARMING (65%); MONETARY POLICY (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



113 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Second Thoughts on Free Trade 

BYLINE:  By Charles Schumer and Paul Craig Roberts; Charles Schumer is the senior senator from New York. Paul Craig Roberts was assistant secretary of the Treasury for economic policy in the Reagan administration.

 BODY:
"I was brought up, like most Englishmen, to respect free trade not only as an economic doctrine which a rational and instructed person could not doubt but almost as a part of the moral law," wrote John Maynard Keynes in 1933. And indeed, to this day, nothing gets an economist's blood boiling more quickly than a challenge to the doctrine of free trade. 
 Yet in that essay of 70 years ago, Keynes himself was beginning to question some of the assumptions supporting free trade. The question today is whether the case for free trade made two centuries ago is undermined by the changes now evident in the modern global economy. 
 Two recent examples illustrate this concern. Over the next three years, a major New York securities firm plans to replace its team of 800 American software engineers, who each earns about $150,000 per year, with an equally competent team in India earning an average of only $20,000. Second, within five years the number of radiologists in this country is expected to decline significantly because M.R.I. data can be sent over the Internet to Asian radiologists capable of diagnosing the problem at a small fraction of the cost.
These anecdotes suggest a seismic shift in the world economy brought on by three major developments. First, new political stability is allowing capital and technology to flow far more freely around the world. Second, strong educational systems are producing tens of millions of intelligent, motivated workers in the developing world, particularly in India and China, who are as capable as the most highly educated workers in the developed world but available to work at a tiny fraction of the cost. Last, inexpensive, high-bandwidth communications make it feasible for large work forces to be located and effectively managed anywhere. 
We are concerned that the United States may be entering a new economic era in which American workers will face direct global competition at almost every job level -- from the machinist to the software engineer to the Wall Street analyst. Any worker whose job does not require daily face-to-face interaction is now in jeopardy of being replaced by a lower-paid, equally skilled worker thousands of miles away. American jobs are being lost not to competition from foreign companies, but to multinational corporations, often with American roots, that are cutting costs by shifting operations to low-wage countries. 
Most economists want to view these changes through the classic prism of "free trade," and they label any challenge as protectionism. But these new developments call into question some of the key assumptions supporting the doctrine of free trade. 
The case for free trade is based on the British economist David Ricardo's principle of "comparative advantage" -- the idea that each nation should specialize in what it does best and trade with others for other needs. If each country focused on its comparative advantage, productivity would be highest and every nation would share part of a bigger global economic pie. 
However, when Ricardo said that free trade would produce shared gains for all nations, he assumed that the resources used to produce goods -- what he called the "factors of production" -- would not be easily moved over international borders. Comparative advantage is undermined if the factors of production can relocate to wherever they are most productive: in today's case, to a relatively few countries with abundant cheap labor. In this situation, there are no longer shared gains -- some countries win and others lose. 
When Ricardo proposed his theory in the early 1800's, major factors of production -- soil, climate, geography and even most workers -- could not be moved to other countries. But today's vital factors of production -- capital, technology and ideas -- can be moved around the world at the push of a button. They are as easy to export as cars. 
This is a very different world than Ricardo envisioned. When American companies replace domestic employees with lower-cost foreign workers in order to sell more cheaply in home markets, it seems hard to argue thatthis is the way free trade is supposed to work. To call this a "jobless recovery" is inaccurate: lots of new jobs are being created, just not here in the United States.
In the past, we have supported free trade policies. But if the case for free trade is undermined by changes in the global economy, our policies should reflect the new realities. While some economists and elected officials suggest that all we need is a robust retraining effort for laid-off workers, we do not believe retraining alone is an answer, because almost the entire range of "knowledge jobs" can be done overseas. Likewise, we do not believe that offering tax incentives to companies that keep American jobs at home can compensate for the enormous wage differentials driving jobs offshore. 
America's trade agreements need to to reflect the new reality. The first step is to begin an honest debate about where our economy really is and where we are headed as a nation. Old-fashioned protectionist measures are not the answer, but the new era will demand new thinking and new solutions. And one thing is certain: real and effective solutions will emerge only when economists and policymakers end the confusion between the free flow of goods and the free flow of factors of production. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BANDWIDTH (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); WORKPLACE MORALE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



114 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Moves to Restrict Building Near Waterways 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

DATELINE: CLOSTER, N.J., Jan. 5 

 BODY:
With a soft rain falling as if on cue, Gov. James E. McGreevey on Monday announced new regulations on storm-water runoff that environmentalists said would create one of the strongest impediments to urban sprawl anywhere in the nation.
 The regulations, which will prohibit most new construction within 300 feet of rivers, streams and reservoirs, are intended to reduce flooding and protect and improve the state's drinking water supply. 
 "These storm-water rules are the most comprehensive set of water protections in the nation," Mr. McGreevey said here on the banks of Anderson Brook, one of the tributaries of the Oradell Reservoir. "No other state has required statewide 300-foot buffers around its high-quality waters. They will prove to be a critical tool in our fight against sprawl." 
The 300-foot buffer could prevent development of as much as 300,000 acres in the state along an estimated 6,000 miles of rivers and streams. Builders, especially those in the shore areas and the western and southern parts of the state, where open land is still available, had opposed the rules.
Mr. McGreevey made the announcement in an upscale community of Closter, in northeastern New Jersey near the Hudson River. Anderson Brook runs through a new housing development that would probably be affected by these rules if it were being proposed today.
Jeff Tittel, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, said the new rules were "landmark regulations" that would benefit future generations, but that took years of discussions because of the opposition from the powerful construction lobby and some politicians.
"We talked and talked and now it's reality and I have to really thank the governor for his leadership on this issue," Mr. Tittel said. "These regulations will not only prevent future floods and help mitigate droughts, but more importantly it's going to protect the pristine streams and our drinking water."
Maya van Rossum of the Delaware Riverkeeper Network, an environmental group, said that while many states have been working on ways to protect the waterways from overdevelopment, New Jersey has, with these rules, jumped ahead of other states in the region.
"The new storm-water rules being announced today are the most protective and effective storm-water regulations in the entire country, and Governor McGreevey is setting the standard for the entire nation on how to deal with storm-water runoff and damaging developments," she said.
In addition to restricting development near waterways, the rules will force municipalities and developers to find more natural ways of managing water runoff from communities. With current manufactured drainage systems, pollutants such as grease, fertilizers and pesticides make their way into streams and rivers.
Developers' groups have opposed the regulations during public hearings, and they are not happy with the final outcome. A report released by the New Jersey Builders Association last year suggested that the state's efforts to restrict growth would lead to higher housing prices and cost 14,000 jobs.
Richard S. Van Osten, executive vice president of the Builders League of South Jersey, said that by taking land out of development, the governor is shrinking the housing supply for the one million new residents expected to move into New Jersey in the next 10 to 20 years.
"Where are they going to live?" he said on Monday. "Clearly, by taking out more ground from development, you increase the cost of housing. The average worker isn't going to be able to afford to live in New Jersey."
But the governor, who has made the issue of fighting urban sprawl a linchpin of his administration, said making way for new residents in a state that does not take care of its natural resources would not make good economic sense.
"For too long in New Jersey we've ignored our water supply," he said. "During the course of the 1990's, nearly one-quarter of New Jersey's water supplies were degraded. Less than a third were swimmable. What we've done today is say that there is nothing more basic or precious for our families and for our children than the quality of our water."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey, center, announced a water protection initiative yesterday, joined by Fred Pitofsky, left, the mayor of Closter, N.J., and Bradley M. Campbell, the state's environmental protection commissioner. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER QUALITY REGULATION (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); RIVERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LOBBYING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); PESTICIDES (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



115 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Rubin Gets Shrill 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Argentina retained the confidence of international investors almost to the end of the 1990's. Analysts shrugged off its large budget and trade deficits; business-friendly, free-market policies would, they insisted, allow the country to grow out of all that. But when confidence collapsed, that optimism proved foolish. Argentina, once a showpiece for the new world order, quickly became abyword for economic catastrophe.
 So what? Those of us who have suggested that the irresponsibility of recent American policy may produce a similar disaster have been dismissed as shrill, even hysterical. (Hey, the market's up, isn't it?) But few would describe Robert Rubin, the legendary former Treasury secretary, as hysterical: his ability to stay calm in the face of crises, and reassure the markets, was his greatest asset. And Mr. Rubin has formally joined the coalition of the shrill. 
 In a paper presented over the weekend at the meeting of the American Economic Association, Mr. Rubin and his co-authors -- Peter Orszag of the Brookings Institution and Allan Sinai of Decision Economics -- argue along lines that will be familiar to regular readers of this column. The United States, they point out, is currently running very large budget and trade deficits. Official projections that this deficit will decline over time aren't based on "credible assumptions." Realistic projections show a huge buildup of debt over the next decade, which will accelerate once the baby boomers retire in large numbers.
All of this is conventional stuff, if anathema to administration apologists, who insist, in flat defiance of the facts, that they have a "plan" to cut the deficit in half. What's new is what Mr. Rubin and his co-authors say about the consequences. Rather than focusing on the gradual harm inflicted by deficits, they highlight the potential for catastrophe. 
"Substantial ongoing deficits," they warn, "may severely and adversely affect expectations and confidence, which in turn can generate a self-reinforcing negative cycle among the underlying fiscal deficit, financial markets, and the real economy. . . . The potential costs and fallout from such fiscal and financial disarray provide perhaps the strongest motivation for avoiding substantial, ongoing budget deficits." In other words, do cry for us, Argentina: we may be heading down the same road.
Lest readers think that the most celebrated Treasury secretary since Alexander Hamilton has flipped his lid, the paper rather mischievously quotes at length from an earlier paper by Laurence Ball and N. Gregory Mankiw, who make a similar point. Mr. Mankiw is now the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, a job that requires him to support his boss's policies, and reassure the public that the budget deficit produced by those policies is manageable and not really a problem. 
But here's what he wrote back in 1995, at a time when the federal deficit was much smaller than it is today, and headed down, not up: the risk of a crisis of confidence "may be the most important reason for seeking to reduce budget deficits. . . . As countries increase their debt, they wander into unfamiliar territory in which hard landings may lurk. If policymakers are prudent, they will not take the chance of learning what hard landings in advanced countries are really like."
The point made by Mr. Rubin now, and by Mr. Mankiw when he was a free agent, is that the traditional immunity of advanced countries like America to third-world-style financial crises isn't a birthright. Financial markets give us the benefit of the doubt only because they believe in our political maturity -- in the willingness of our leaders to do what is necessary to rein in deficits, paying a political cost if necessary. And in the past that belief has been justified. Even Ronald Reagan raised taxes when the budget deficit soared.
But do we still have that kind of maturity? Here's the opening sentence of a recent New York Times article on the administration's budget plans: "Facing a record budget deficit, Bush administration officials say they have drafted an election-year budget that will rein in the growth of domestic spending without alienating politically influential constituencies." Needless to say, the proposed spending cuts -- focused only on the powerless -- are both cruel and trivial. 
If this kind of fecklessness goes on, investors will eventually conclude that America has turned into a third world country, and start to treat it like one. And the results for the U.S. economy won't be pretty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); WRITERS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



116 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2037 words

HEADLINE: Questions Seen On Seed Prices Set in the 90's 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
Senior executives at the two biggest seed companies in the world met repeatedly in the mid- to late 1990's and agreed to charge higher prices for genetically modified seeds, according to interviews with former executives from both companies and to court and other documents.
 The Monsanto Company and Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. acknowledge that their executives met to discuss genetically modified seeds. Monsanto also said the companies discussed prices, but added that they were engaged in legitimate negotiations about changes to an existing licensing agreement, not illegal price fixing. 
 Interviews with former and current executives of major seed companies, along with company documents, however, show that through much of the 1990's Monsanto tried to control the market for genetically altered corn and soybean seeds. Monsanto spent billions in the 1980's to invent specialized seeds and sold the rights to make them to big seed companies like Pioneer. 
More than a dozen legal experts contacted by The New York Times say that if the goal of the talks between the rivals was to limit competition on prices, they would have violated antitrust laws.
The talks, which occurred from 1995 to 1999, involved licenses that let Pioneer sell altered seeds developed by Monsanto, which is based here. In those talks, according to interviews with dozens of executives and court and other documents, the companies discussed prices, swapped profit projections and even talked about cooperating to keep the prices of genetically modified seeds high.
The talks involved top executives at both companies, including Robert B. Shapiro, then Monsanto's chief executive, and Charles S. Johnson, then Pioneer's chief executive, as well as Richard McConnell, now president of Pioneer, and Robert T. Fraley, now Monsanto's chief technology officer, according to company officials and documents. Together, Pioneer and Monsanto control about 60 percent of the nation's $5 billion market for corn and soybean seeds.
Also in the late 1990's, Monsanto pressured at least two other big seed companies to coordinate their retail pricing strategies with Monsanto's, former chief executives at those companies said. The executives, who ran Novartis Seeds and Mycogen, said they rejected Monsanto's entreaties as anticompetitive and potentially illegal.
Analysts estimate that more than $10 billion worth of genetically altered seeds have been sold in the United States since they werecommercialized in 1996. Monsanto and Pioneer did not have to succeed in actually raising retail seed prices to have violated the Sherman Antitrust Act, legal and economic experts say; just agreeing to coordinate prices is against the law.
Companies found to have violated federal antitrust law could be subject to criminal fines and civil class-action litigation. In the civil lawsuits, courts can award triple monetary damages.
"If they're talking to Pioneer about raising the ultimate price to the farmers, that's illegal," said Austan Goolsbee, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago and a former Justice Department consultant on antitrust issues. "Monsanto shouldn't care about the final price. They should only care about the royalty payments they receive from Pioneer."
Royalty payments were at the heart of the matter. Before it realized how successful altered seeds would be, Monsanto sold the technology to some companies, including Pioneer, for relatively modest sums. When the seeds proved to be a hit, Monsanto tried to renegotiate many of those deals to ensure that the seeds sold for higher prices, executives and records show.
Monsanto said it brought up those early agreements only in the context of negotiating a licensing deal with Pioneer for new seeds that Monsanto was developing.
"Monsanto did offer to expand and revise existing licenses with Pioneer," Lori J. Fisher, a Monsanto spokeswoman, said in an e-mail message. "In the context of a potentially new license for technology, it is absolutely within the law to discuss the price and the means of compensation to the licensing party."
Pioneer, a division of DuPont, also denied that the discussions were used to fix prices. "We set our own prices," it said in a statement. "We do it independently, and without consultation with our competitors." It added that it believed that all of its talks with Monsanto about technology licensing were "legitimate and appropriate business negotiations" intended to benefit its customers. "Pioneer at no time engaged in illegal or inappropriate activity regarding the prices of our products," it said.
Some leading antitrust experts, however, said the talks resembled an effort to suppress competition on retail prices for seeds, though they cautioned that they had not seen documents in the case.
Before Monsanto struck the 1992 and 1993 licensing agreements with Pioneer, it had monopoly rights to its technology and could set any price it wanted. But once Pioneer bought the licenses, it became Monsanto's competitor and, legal experts say, the companies were no longer supposed to talk about how much to charge.
"Once you've created the competition," said George Hay, a law professor at Cornell University, "you can't take other steps to snuff it out."
The Justice Department is looking into whether Monsanto engaged in anticompetitive action in the herbicide market, which it dominates with its Roundup weed killer.
The department is aware of the seed pricing talks, according to government officials. But it is unclear if a formal inquiry has begun. A department spokeswoman declined comment.
And a group of farmers filed a class-action suit against Monsanto in 1999, accusing it of several misdeeds, including seeking to organize a cartel to control the market for biotech seeds. In September, a federal judge dismissed some claims, but not the accusation of price fixing. The farmers' lawyers have appealed the judge's rulings.
Monsanto began its work on seeds in the 1980's, when it applied genetic engineering to agriculture. One idea was to develop soybeans impervious to Roundup, which would let farmers attack weeds without killing crops. Another idea was to make a type of corn with its own insect repellent, to save the cost and trouble of killing pests.
The company spent hundreds of millions of dollars on these and other projects, and when the first altered seeds were ready for market, it sold the rights to produce and market them. Pioneer was one of the first to sign up, paying $450,000 in 1992 for nonexclusive rights to altered soybean seeds. In 1993, Pioneer paid $38 million for nonexclusive rights to the biotech corn.
Monsanto officials initially viewed the deals as a vote of confidence in biotechnology, former executives said. But soon after, some senior executives complained that the technology had been sold too cheaply.
"I left in '93, and they tried to undo the deal," said Geert Van Brandt, a former Monsanto executive who helped negotiate the 1993 agreement. "They wanted more money; they wanted to have their cake and eat it, too."
By 1995, Monsanto revamped its licensing program to what some executives called a value capture system to reap bigger profits. Under this system, companies that licensed the technology had to require farmers to sign a grower licensing agreement that forbade them to replant seeds saved from harvest. Monsanto also required the companies to charge a technology fee for every bag of biotech seed; licensees were to collect the fee and pay it back to Monsanto.
Most big seed companies -- including several that Monsanto has since acquired -- agreed to use the system, which legal experts say is a legitimate exercise of Monsanto's licensing and patent rights.
But one major company was absent from the program: Pioneer, which already had the right to sell Monsanto's altered soybeans and corn. Worried that Pioneer might undercut prices being charged by other licensees, Monsanto asked Pioneer to renegotiate the 1992 and 1993 deals, according to executives involved in the talks.
"We bought Roundup soybeans for about $500,000," said Thomas N. Urban, the former chairman and chief executive of Pioneer. "They hated us. Every time we had a meeting, they'd say, 'You need to pay us more.' We said, 'Why?"'
Monsanto executives wanted to make their pricing system an industry standard, according to former industry executives.
"We had commercial concerns about somebody willfully trading away the value of the technology," said Arnold Donald, Monsanto's former president and a figure in the Pioneer negotiations. "If Pioneer and Asgrow went out and charged a normal seed price and didn't put any value on the technology, in that scenario, we have no value."
Asgrow is the nation's biggest soybean seed producer; Monsanto bought it in 1997 for $240 million. Mr. Arnold said he believed that what Monsanto did was legal.
Pioneer, however, was reluctant to go along with Monsanto's marketing plan, but former executives say that Pioneer considered acceding to Monsanto's proposal in exchange for more advanced seeds and for getting the underlying genetic engineering expertise, called enabling technologies, that Pioneer could use to develop new seeds by itself.
Monsanto balked at sharing that technology, according to lawyers and executives. Instead, it offered other incentives, including $25 million, if Pioneer would adopt the grower agreement and technology fee in 1995, according to lawyers. At one point, Monsanto also offered to let Pioneer keep the technology fee just so long as it charged one.
"We said, 'Just go with our form and keep the money.' And they didn't want to go," said Mr. Donald, now the chief executive of Merisant, a Chicago company that makes artificial sweeteners.
When talking failed, Monsanto tried a threat. Former Monsanto executives said they told Pioneer they would withhold new technology from Pioneer if it did not renegotiate.
"We said, 'You paid us; you have every right,"' Mr. Donald said. "'But now we have a value capture for the industry.' And we said, 'If you want future technology from us, you need to honor it."'
Monsanto and Pioneer, which is based in Des Moines, declined to discuss specifics of their talks.
In 1997 and 1998, Pioneer executives told Monsanto they would agree to simply charge an "elite" or premium price -- in effect agreeing not to compete with Monsanto and its partners on price -- in exchange for Monsanto's giving Pioneer access to new varieties of modified seeds and the technology to make others, according to people who have seen documents relating to this.
Mr. Shapiro declined to comment when reached by telephone. Other current executives of Monsanto and Pioneer who participated in the talks were not made available for comment by the companies.
In the mid- to late 1990's, Monsanto sought similar agreements from other rivals, according to former seed executives.
For example, Monsanto asked the seed unit of Novartis, the Swiss maker of drugs and nutrition products, to charge premium prices for its altered soybeans even though Novartis, like Pioneer, had a license to market them independently, according to former executives.
"They came to us; they did pose that question," said Ed Shonsey, the former chief executive of Novartis's crop science unit. "We felt it was inappropriate. We refused."
In 1995, Monsanto asked Mycogen, which is based in San Diego, not to compete with Monsanto or its partners on the price of biotech seeds in exchange for access to some of Monsanto's patented technologies, according to former executives and others who were close to the talks.
Carlton Eibl, former chief executive of Mycogen, said Monsanto also sought to combine its seed technology with Mycogen's to bring his company into Monsanto's pricing system.
"They wanted us to license enough of their technology so they could control pricing under the G.L.A.," he said, referring to Monsanto's grower licensing agreement. "That was a fundamental thing about controlling price that we did not agree with. No matter how you look at it, it was anticompetitive." Mycogen is now a unit of Dow Chemical.
Monsanto denied it sought an agreement on price with either Novartis or Mycogen; it said it was simply engaged in licensing negotiations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The talks in the mid- to late 1990's involved top executives at both companies, including Robert B. Shapiro, left, then Monsanto's chief executive, and Charles S. Johnson, then Pioneer's chief executive. (pg. C8) Chart: "Seller's Regret"In the early 1990s, Pioneer Hi-Bred bought the right to use Monsanto's technology to develop genetically engineered seeds. The agreement placed no restrictions on how Pioneer priced the seeds. Some Monsanto executives later concluded that the company had sold the rights too cheaply. Monsanto then created what it called a value capture system, which imposed more restrictive terms on seed resellers. Here are some differences in the contracts. ORIGINAL CONTRACTPioneer paid Monsanto $38 million for the right to technology for producing genetically engineered corn and $450,000 for the technology for producing genetically engineered soybeans. Under the agreement, Pioneer was free to market those products any way it wanted and charge farmers any price it chose. VALUE CAPTURE SYSTEMMonsanto later decided that companies that wanted to license the technology for its engineered seeds had to agree to the following: They would have to make farmers sign contracts forbidding them to replant seeds saved from harvest. If the farmers broke these contracts, they could face civil lawsuits for theft of intellectual property. Monsanto required seed companies to charge farmers a separate "technology fee" that was set by, and payable to, Monsanto.(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); CARTELS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); PLASTICS (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); DAMAGES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) FOOD AND COOKING; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (94%); PIONEER HI-BRED MAGYARORSZAG VETOMAGTERMELO ES FORGALMAZO RT (58%); NOVARTIS AG (52%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (94%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%) SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESINS; 

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



117 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Detroit to Focus on Tastes as Its Market Share Decreases 

BYLINE:  By FARA WARNER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The strengthening economy and generous sales incentives led to robust car sales last year, automakers said Monday, but the American companies' share of the market continued to shrink as import brands like Toyota, Honda and BMW posted the biggest gains. 
 Despite those declines, the American companies did not pledge to increase market share in 2004, as they have often done. Instead, they said they would look for ways to make the cars and trucks that they do sell more profitable, largely by making them more appealing to consumers. 
 "Oversupply of vehicles consumers don't want has led us to raise incentives or run to daily rentals fleet sales and we have to stay out of that trap," Steve Lyons, president of the Ford Motor Company's Ford division, said during a conference call. 
Including its Lincoln and Mercury divisions, but not its foreign luxury makes like Jaguar and Volvo, Ford's sales fell 8 percent in December from the same month a year earlier, and its share of the North American market slipped to 20.7 percent from 21.3 percent in 2002. For the year, Ford's sales were down 4 percent, including an 11 percent decline in cars sales. 
Mr. Lyons added that while Ford planned to introduce several new vehicles, including a minivan and an upscale sedan, he expected the Ford brand's market share to remain where it was last year, at about 17.1 percent, in 2004.
Wesley Brown, a partner with Iceology, an automotive research firm in Los Angeles, said Ford's forecast suggested a new reality in Detroit. "Maybe the companies are finally getting to that point of acceptance," he said, "where they recognize what their true market share really is and then determine how to be profitable at that figure."
American automakers' share of the North American market has been dropping for decades and is now 61.8 percent, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. Japanese makers have 29 percent of the market with German and Korean automakers making up the rest. Two decades ago, the American automakers held 80 percent of the domestic market; in the 1970's, General Motors alone had more than 50 percent.
The market itself shrank to 16.6 million cars and trucks in 2003, down from 16.8 million in 2002. Still, that was above some analysts' forecasts of 16.2 million, largely because of the aggressive use of low-interest loans, cash rebates and other incentives to buyers. For some G.M. models, the incentives totaled about $4,000, according to Edmunds.com, a consumer research company in Santa Monica, Calif.
In 2003, G.M.'s market share dropped to 28.3 percent, said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief sales analyst. That is down from 28.7 percent in 2002, and the first decline for G.M. in three years. Some G.M. executives have started wearing lapel pins with "29" on them to encourage employees to push the company's share over that figure.
Mr. Ballew said that "2003 was a solid year for G.M., but we didn't get to where we wanted to be." However, instead of saying that the company would push for market share gains in the next year, he noted that G.M.'s market share for the last five yearshas remained stable in the 28 percent range despite tough competition.
G.M.'s 2003 sales slipped 2.2 percent to 4.7 million cars and trucks, with car sales sliding 5 percent and truck sales up 0.2 percent. Its December sales were down 9 percent compared to a year earlier when G.M. went on a marketing and incentive blitz.
The market share for DaimlerChrysler slipped to 12.8 percent from 13.1 percent in 2002, putting it 270,000 units ahead of Toyota, which said 2003 sales rose 6.3 percent, making it the company's best sales year in its 46-year history. 
None of the American carmakers said they would abandon incentives this year. 
G.M. said it would give away 1,000 new vehicles over the next two months. The idea, said Steve Hill, a top marketer at the company, is to encourage shoppers to visit G.M. dealers "and close this perceptual gap in how people think about G.M. and how good it is today."
Meanwhile, Chrysler said it would offer buyers a zero-percent interest rate for 48 months on many of Chrysler vehicles, and also offer a $2,000 cash rebate.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about 2003 auto sales misstated DaimlerChrysler's share of the United States market. It was 14.1 percent; the 12.8 percent figure was for the Chrysler Group only.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Auto Sales in December"ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States. Graph tracks the sale of cars and light trucks since June 2002. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States. Cars2003: 580,3152002: 624,936CHANGE: -10.7 Light trucks2003: 844,0002002: 817,915CHANGE: -0.8 Total2003: 1,424,3152002: 1,442,851CHANGE: -5.1 CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 168,561CHANGE*: -5.8MARKET SHARE: 29.1 FordNUMBER SOLD: 80,763CHANGE*: -19.6MARKET SHARE: 13.9 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 72,112CHANGE*: -7.0MARKET SHARE: 12.4 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 58,032CHANGE*: -8.9MARKET SHARE: 10.0 Daimler-Chrysler+NUMBER SOLD: 47,672CHANGE*: -11.1MARKET SHARE: 8.2 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 37,150CHANGE*: -8.0MARKET SHARE: 6.4 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 84,657CHANGE: +11.7 Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 68,163CHANGE: -14.6 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 40,119CHANGE: +10.8 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 33,313CHANGE: -17.1 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 29,818CHANGE: -7.5 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 26,443CHANGE: -20.0 Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 23,244CHANGE: -26.0 Jeep Gr. CherokeeNUMBER SOLD: 23,174CHANGE: -7.6 Chevrolet CavalierNUMBER SOLD: 21,662CHANGE: +13.5 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 21,246CHANGE: -5.0 Chevrolet TahoeNUMBER SOLD: 21,122CHANGE: -19.2 Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 20,467CHANGE: -9.5 LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 274,548CHANGE*: -11.2MARKET SHARE: 32.5 FordNUMBER SOLD: 206,510CHANGE*: -2.8MARKET SHARE: 24.5 Daimler-Chrysler+NUMBER SOLD: 156,956CHANGE*: +6.1MARKET SHARE: 18.6 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 81,305CHANGE*: +16.8MARKET SHARE: 9.6 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 43,615CHANGE*: +6.2MARKET SHARE: 5.2 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 29,844CHANGE*: +53.3MARKET SHARE: 3.5 *December figures include estimates for Hyundai, Isuzu, Kia and Subaru. Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. +Includes MercedesBenz sales. (Source by Wards AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (78%); SEDANS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



118 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Anxious Time for Parmalat Bondholders Outside Italy 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Parmalat bondholders outside Italy have been nervously watching since the company filed for bankruptcy, saying that the reorganization of Parmalat may be a watershed event that determines whether they will invest in Italy in the future. 
 Many investors are concerned that Italian banks will be given preferential treatment in the bankruptcy process. Such a decision could cool a recent boom in Italian bonds. The bond market in Italy is relatively small compared with that of other large European countries because Italian companies have preferred to borrow from local banks. But issuing debt has become a more popular option in recent years, and more than 20 billion euros ($25.2 billion) in bonds were issued by Italian nonfinancial corporations in 2003, according to Fitch Ratings, up from less than 2 billion euros in 1997. 
 "If the Italian courts and regulators are not going to treat nondomestic investors fairly, that will not be a country we are going to participate in," said Gary E. Wendlandt, chairman and chief executive of New York Life Investment Management, which owns $30 million in Parmalat private placement bonds. This is the first investment that New York Life has made in Italy that has gone bad. 
Parmalat has issued more than 5 billion euros in bonds in the last four years, and most of the bonds are held by investors outside Italy. The company's three Italian bank lenders, Capitalia, Banca Intesa and San Paolo IMI, are owed more than 1 billion euros, about the same as foreign banks. The way the debt is structured banks and the bondholders are on the same level. 
But experience in Italy shows that local companies and banks are often given preferential treatment. In 2001, for example, Telecom Italia shareholders outside of a stake held by Olivetti, many of them foreign, received no premium when the company was taken over by Pirelli. Olivetti received an 80 percent premium. And an earlier bid for the company was blocked by Italian regulators because it was backed by a French utility. 
Foreign creditors are also worried by Italy's bankruptcy law, which, unlike the law in the United States, does not require creditors' approval before a restructuring plan is submitted to regulators. "We're looking for the regulators to recognize the creditors as important stakeholders, and consult them first," said one person involved with a large bondholder consortium. 
Regulators, meanwhile, have done little to assure foreign creditors that they will get their money back. Italy's industry minister, Antonio Marzano, stressed last month that the company's bankruptcy decree was to "safeguard employment, not the shareholders or the management." 
He added that the "main brief" of Enrico Bondi, the court-appointed administrator of Parmalat, was to "overhaul the company, not to sell the company's assets." European Union officials have said they will be watching the situation closely. 
Should foreign investment in Italy decline, the slow recovery there could be weakened. The country's sovereign debt, at 104.9 percent of gross domestic product, is the highest in Europe. 
Italy has the second-highest level of public investment-grade debt after Japan, said Moritz Kraemer, a director with Standard & Poors. The ratio is coming down, Mr. Kraemer said, "but too slowly, given the challenges Italy will face" in the future. 
The country's aging population will put great demands on government spending, Mr. Kraemer said, but Italy has not opted to reduce its public debt now, before that happens. Standard & Poor's has a negative outlook on Italy's government debt. The Parmalat collapse has not affected the performance of Italy's sovereign debt, nor is it expected to. And foreign investment is not necessarily important for the financial stability of Italian companies, because they can still rely on the local banking system, said Lorenzo Codogno, a managing director with Bank of America. But it is important for the Italian economy over all, Mr. Codogno said. 
Mr. Bondi, the turnaround expert who has been saddled with the task of fixing Parmalat, is well aware of foreign investors' concerns, and has been willing to meet with bondholders, say several people on both sides of the situation. "This is not the first time he had to do this sort of thing," one such person said. "He understands that there will be tough conversations, but the solution has to be acceptable to everyone." 
But bondholders say they have not yet been able to secure meetings with Italian regulators. 
If bondholders' worst fears are realized, and local Parmalat debtholders are given preference over foreign investors without reason, some say they will desert the market. "If they choose to treat the Italian banks as a special class of creditors, we will not be a participant in Italian markets in the future," Mr. Wendlandt of New York Life said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EURO (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); MISAPPROPRIATION (63%) FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: PARMALAT SPA (90%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); INTESA SANPAOLO SPA (54%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PARMALAT 

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (90%); ISP (BIT) (54%); TIT (BIT) (53%); TI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (90%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (90%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



119 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 TheNew York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: American Investors Put Japan's Resorts in Play 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: MIYAZAKI, Japan 

 BODY:
With his father murmuring encouragement, a little boy in a yellow polo shirt whacked at a golf ball in a practice sand trap. Nearby, his mother worked on her putting.
 The family scene at the Phoenix Seagaia Resort's new golf academy here recently was a far cry from the old days two years ago when golfers, invariably upper-echelon businessmen, were met at the clubhouse by obsequious employees in tuxedos. 
 The difference reflects the metamorphosis that has changed a state-supported white elephant, which was sinking into a Pacific Ocean beach, into a world class resort owned and managed by Americans.
"Our vision is to create Japan's first international resort," said Michael F. Glennie, a former manager of the Waldorf Astoria in New York and now chief executive of Seagaia, which is owned by the private equity firm Ripplewood Holdings and is situated on the southern tip of Japan's main island chain. 
In a turn of the wheel from more than a decade ago, when Japanese giants were buying American ski and golf properties, like Steamboat in Colorado and Pebble Beach in California, American companies have been aggressively buying bankrupt leisure ventures -- many of them golf properties -- in Japan, a nation sometimes seen as welcoming foreign investors with barbed wire.
The Goldman Sachs Group has become Japan's largest golf operator, with 70 courses. Not far behind is Lone Star, a Texas-based investment fund, which has snapped up 39 Japanese golf courses and plans to increase that number substantially.
Americans, far and away the dominant foreign investors in Japan -- they accounted for 190.9 billion yen of the 981.2 billion yen ($9.2 billion) in foreign direct investment in the six months ended in September -- have been buying the hotels, apartments, resorts and golf courses because they are for sale, they are cheap and the demographics are in their favor. Over the next decade, 10 million Japanese are expected to retire. Controlling as much as $500 billion in savings, Japanese over 60 tend to favor domestic travel as a primary leisure activity.
With Japan's heavily indebted central government cutting payments to local governments, more golf courses and resorts built with government guarantees, like Seagaia, are set to come on the market.
"You will probably see tons of stuff for sale," said Kunji Okue, a fiscal policy expert with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Tokyo. "It is going to be a garage sale. They have to sell, and that is it." 
In the fall of 2001, Ripplewood paid about $125 million for Seagaia, a 1,730-acre complex in this semitropical city on Kyushu Island. Managed by Starwood Resorts as a Sheraton, it includes 99 holes of golf; four hotels, including one with 45 floors and 753 rooms; two clubhouses; a convention center; and what is billed as the world's largest domed water park. In return for promises to invest another $125 million, Ripplewood won the cancellation of the resort's debt of about $3.5 billion.
Now, after $145 million of investments, Seagaia's golf is so popular that the peak-season greens fees this winter are rising to $300 a round. Its weddings and meetings business is so strong that the conference space is being expanded. Ripplewood officials forecast a profit next year.
Though American investors have been busy buying bits of Japan -- including, in November, Japan Telecom's fixed-line operations -- this is the only American-owned golf property in the country.
Seagaia, believed to have cost about $2 billion to build, is emblematic of the late 1980's bubble-era excess when the number of number of golf courses in Japan rose almost one-third, to 2,471 today. 
Since 2000, 265 courses have gone broke, with total liabilities of $61 billion. And the country has a new law making bankruptcies easier. 
"It is not clear whether it has peaked out," said Saturo Shinzuka, golf course analyst for Teikoku Databank, a private credit research firm that tracks bankruptcies in Japan. 
When Ripplewood showed an interest in Seagaia, " we were worried," recalled Shoichi Chuman, director of industry, commerce, tourism and labor for Miyazaki Prefecture. "There is the image of the vulture fund that makes investments in failed Japanese businesses and then quickly sells them for profits. But now I find the management is making a mid- to long-term commitment to build a resort that stands out in the Asia-Pacific region. I think foreign capital is actually reconstructing the Japanese economy."
Hitoshi Hirano, secretary general of Seagaia's union, agreed.
"First came only the hard stuff, the risutora," he said, using the Japanese word for restructuring, a process that reduced the payroll here to 1,400 employees from 2,400. (American investors here often say their new businesses are overstaffed.)
The union accepted the cuts because it knew that Seagaia was losing about $230 million a year and that there would be no government aid.
A union leader even joined a Seagaia marketing trip to South Korea last year. "We made a big push at cutting costs, but the bottom line is that we should increase the sales," Mr. Hirano said. "The trip was rather successful. We got many contracts."
Seagaia's location far from Japan's center had been seen as a negative. But Kurt Michelsen, who directs golf operations at the resort, sees it at the hub of 20 million golfers residing within two-hour flights from Seoul, Shanghai, Taipei or Tokyo.
In early 2003, direct flights started between here and Seoul on Asiana Airlines. Now 10 percent of the golfers are from South Korea, a nation where five million golfers compete for tee times at just 168 courses.
The golf academy encourages women and children to join what used to be a businessman's sport. Beverage carts now circulate around the links. At the clubhouse, employees wear resort-style uniforms, a pine forest has been pruned to allow views of the Pacific, and a hall of fame has been created with memorabilia from past tournament players at Seagaia, including a golf bag signed by Tiger Woods.
To help smooth out the peaks and lows in hotel occupancies, Ripplewood is seeking to attract more women and elderly visitors, who can often travel off season and stay longer. It has decided to spend $30 million to build a luxury spa, a traditional bath complex and a new entrance to the high-rise hotel. The goal is to make Seagaia look more like aresort.
Then there is that water park dome. With its wave machine and retractable roof, the park can cost $25,000 a day to run. But on a recent Monday, a holiday here, only around 100 visitors had paid the $9 admission fee.
"The dome is the jaw dropper," Mr. Glennie said. "We just looked at it, scratched our heads and said, 'What do we do with this?"'
Whatever the company decides, leaders of this city of 300,000 are very likely to cooperate. "You hear a lot about red tape in Japan," Mr. Glennie said. "But we have been able to get permits faster than in many localities in the United States."
Mr. Chuman, the local economic development director, said that Miyazaki authorities were not giving any subsidies to Seagaia, and that Seagaia had not asked for any.
But Miyazaki has invested $7.3 million in Skynet Asia Airways, a small airline that started flying between here and Tokyo last year. With round-trip flights for about $350, the start-up has had a 76 percent occupancy rate for its six daily flights between here and Haneda, the main domestic airport for greater Tokyo.
Local officials financed the start-up to bring down air fares that were being kept high by the two national companies serving the route, Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways. Those two have since dropped their prices.
Seagaia is not out of the woods yet. The complex includes a mothballed golf course clubhouse and 250-room hotel. But Ripplewood's initial success here is attracting competition.
Late in 2003, , Ripplewood bid on Huis Ten Bosch, a Japanese-owned Dutch-themed amusement park on Kyushu Island. The Americans believed that their success with Seagaia made their offer a natural. But when the bids were opened, the winner, with a $275 million offer, was Nomura Principal Finance, a unit of Japan's biggest brokerage firm, Nomura Holdings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kurt Michelsen, the director of golf operations at the Phoenix Seagaia course managed by Starwood Resorts as a Sheraton on Kyushu Island. (Photo by Masafumi Yamamoto for The New York Times)(pg. W1); The Seagaia resort has a water park, with an artificial beach, a retractable roof and a wave machine. The cost of operating the park, which has struggled to attract visitors, can reach $25,000 a day. (Photo by Masafumi Yamamoto for The New York Times)(pg. W7) Chart: "In the Rough"American companies have been buying bankrupt golf courses and other leisure ventures in Japan over the last several years. Chart shows golf course bankruptcies in Japan since 1997. LIABILITIES, IN BILLIONS'97 -- $3.3'98 -- 4.2'99 -- 4.4'00 -- 14.6'01 -- 8.5'02 -- 20.0'03* -- 17.8 *Through Oct. (Source by Teikoku Databank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESORTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BEACHES (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); BONDS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOLF 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (83%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (80%); RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



120 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Agriculture Rivals Are Said To Have Met on Seed Prices
Senior executives at Monsanto and Pioneer Hi-Bred International met repeatedly in the 1990's and agreed to charge higher prices for genetically modified seeds, according to interviews with former executives from both companies and to court and other documents.
 The Justice Department is aware of the seed pricing talks, officials said, but it is unclear whether a formal inquiry has begun. Meanwhile, a lawsuit filed in 1999 by a group of farmers accusing the company of price fixing is still pending. Page A1. 

Writers Guild President Ineligible
Victoria Riskin, left, the president of the Writers Guild of America, the union that represents Hollywood screenwriters, was ineligible to run for re-election in September, an independent investigator decided, according to people who have seen his report. Ms. Riskin's lawyer, Larry Feldman, said he hoped that the board would not overturn a majority election but added, "I'm sure Ms. Riskin will abide by the decision ofthe board." C4.

New Hybrids From 3 Automakers
The number of fuel-efficient hybrid models available in the United States will more than double in the next year, to seven from three, with new entries coming from Toyota, Honda and Ford Motor. C2.

The strengthening economy and generous incentives produced robust car sales last year, automakers said, but American companies' share of the market continued to shrink. C2.

Nasdaq Jumps 2%; Dow Up 1%
The Nasdaq composite rose 40.68 points, or 2 percent, to 2,047.36, The Dow Jones industrials gained 134.22 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,544.07, The Standard & Poor's 500 increased 13.74 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,122.22. C9.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether one or more employees of the investment banking division of Bank of America traded stocks in advance of ratings changes by research analysts, a person briefed on the matter said. C2.

Hollinger Grants Black an Extension
Hollinger International said that Conrad M. Black had been granted a two-week extension to repay $850,000 that he owes. It is still not clear, however, whether Lord Black actually intends to make the repayment. C4.

Big Trial for Autism Drug Fails
Repligen, a small biotechnology company, announced the failure of a large clinical trial for secretin, an experimental drug for autism. The drug's future is now in doubt. A14.

AOL Tries to Control 'Spyware'
America Online will give its customers built-in software to detect and remove "spyware," company executives said, in a bid to control such hidden tools that can monitor users. C7.

1.2% Rise in Construction Spending
Construction spending rose 1.2 percent in November, to a $934.5 billion annual pace, a record and the sixth consecutive monthly increase, and builders started work on houses at a record rate, the government said. Residential construction, which accounts for more than half the total, rose 1.9 percent. C13.

Cross-Border Debate on Mad Cow
Canadian ranchers and officials have criticized the United States cattle industry's effort to distinguish American cattle from Canadian cattle, saying mad cow disease is being portrayed as a Canadian problem. A14.

Two Sides to Luggage-Lock Plan
The government says a new luggage-lock program is doing just fine. Some travelers say otherwise. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,544.07 up 134.22Nasdaq composite -- 2,047.36 up 40.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.38% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2669 up 0.0082The dollar -- 106.08 yen down 0.90 Graph: "TODAY" shows Factory Orders since May.November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -1.5% Graph tracks construction spending since June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (86%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE FIXING (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); WRITERS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); HYBRID VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); LITIGATION (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (64%); SPYWARE (63%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (60%); AUTISM (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PIONEER HI-BRED MAGYARORSZAG VETOMAGTERMELO ES FORGALMAZO RT (58%); MONSANTO CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (52%); AOL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



121 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA BUSINESS; 
Report Backs Overturning Of Election at Writers Guild

BYLINE:  By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The president of the Writers Guild of America, the union that represents Hollywood screenwriters, was ineligible to run for re-election in September, an independent investigator decided on Monday, recommending that the election be overturned, according to several people who have read the decision.
 The action came on the same day that a screenwriter sued the union in federal court, contending that he was denied the chance to receive credit for work on "The Last Samurai." 
 In his report, William B. Gould IV, an independent investigator and labor law expert, found that the guild's president, Victoria Riskin, was not eligible to run for another two-year term in September because she did not fulfill the requirement for maintaining active membership: being paid for a writing assignment.
To maintain active status, guild members must have earned income from projects covered by guild contracts within four years. Rival union members said that Ms. Riskin had been granted a bogus deal -- an option to rewrite the classic film "Magic Town," originally written by her father, Robert Riskin -- purely to maintain that status. 
Mr. Gould did not say that the deal was bogus but he said that Ms. Riskin needed to be paid for the rewrite, not just paid for an option, to be considered an active member. The guild's board met to discuss the recommendation and was expected to take immediate action. 
Ms. Riskin's lawyer, Larry Feldman, said he hoped that the board would not overturn a majority election based on Mr. Gould's report but added, "I'm sure Ms. Riskin will abide by the decision of the board." 
A guild member, Eric Hughes, lost the election in September to Ms. Riskin and was among those protesting her eligibility as a candidate. 
He said he had been asked to run for office by fellow union members and was surprised to find that no one expected him to try to win. "This is a very, very corrupt guild," he said. "It was stunning to find that the winner is designated. And then you discover that the president of the guild is not even a writer?"
Mr. Hughes said if the board did not remove Ms. Riskin, he would take the matter to the state Department of Labor in California.
A Connecticut-based writer sued the guild on Monday along with the writer-producers and director of the Warner Brothers film "The Last Samurai," contending that he had been denied credit for originating the story, which is about a Civil War veteran who takes up arms with Samurai warriors in 19th-century Japan.
A lawyer for the writer, Michael Alan Eddy, filed a suit accusing the defendants of fraud, breach of contract and breach of the duty of fair representation. Mr. Eddy said that he and two other writers, Garner Simmons and Robert Schenkkan, were not given the opportunity to go through the guild's arbitration process on assigning credit.
"Myself and a couple of other writers went through channels and tried to do it the right way, and it didn't work out," Mr. Eddy said. "I didn't feel I had any choice. I tried to go through the Writers Guild. They didn't follow their own guidelines. We were cut out of being considered part of full-blown arbitration, which is the way it should have gone."
Instead, he said, the guild assigned "expert readers" to review contracts and scripts, and they decided that the matter should not be officially arbitrated. Edward Zwick, who directed and produced the film and shared writing credit; his partner, Marshall Herskovitz, who was also a producer and shared writing credit; and Warner Brothers and Interscope were also named as defendants. According to the lawsuit: "The W.G.A. now operates a bizarre and secretive system of apportioning credits that denies fundamental due process to its very members, and has a dual set of rules for certain writers. To make this all the more unusual, these 'special rules' are nowhere codified, but are made up at the whim of the executives who run the guild."
Mr. Simmons made a similar complaint about the guild in a letter to California's labor commissioner, Arthur Lujan, on Dec. 23, asking that he take action to force the guild to reopen credit arbitration for "The Last Samurai."
According to the suit, Mr. Eddy wrote a script called "Eastern/Western," which was later rewritten by Mr. Simmons under the title "West of the Rising Sun." Mr. Schenkkan replaced Mr. Simmons as the third writer on the project, the lawsuit contends, before it was taken over by Mr. Zwick. Another writer, John Logan, also received screenplay credit for the film and is not named in the suit.
Mr. Zwick was in Europe for a premiere of the film, but Mr. Herskovitz said in a phone interview: "I think it's finally a Writers Guild matter. The guild has a long-established procedure for determining who gets credit. That procedure is weighted very much in favor of the original writers on any project. If they decided that the original writers of this project should not be eligible for an arbitration, that's their decision."
A guild spokeswoman, Cheryl Rhoden, declined to comment, saying she had not received a copy of the suit. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about a dispute involving the eligibility of Victoria Riskin as an official of the Writers Guild of America referred incorrectly to her union's jurisdiction. She was elected president of the guild's Western branch in September; the Eastern branch has a separate president, Herb Sargent. (Ms. Riskin stepped down early Tuesday.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: An investigator said that Victoria Riskin was not eligible to run for another term as guild president. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FILM (78%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (77%); CONTRACTS LAW (76%); LAWYERS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



122 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Automakers Unveil Plans for More Hybrid Models 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM; Micheline Maynard in Detroit contributed to this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
The number of fuel-efficient hybrid models available in the United States will more than double in the next year, to seven from three, with new entries coming from Toyota, Honda and Ford Motor. 
 Two of the new vehicles were announced at the North American International Auto Show -- one of the auto industry's most important annual product previews -- which opened here Sunday for the news media. 
 But the news from Japanese automakers was hardly all green. They are redoubling their efforts to take on the Big Three in the market for pickup trucks. Toyota, for example, unveiled a gigantic pickup truck prototype, called the FTX. 
The truck, which Toyota said it modeled after a clenched fist, appears to be its answer to the biggest offerings from United States automakers as well as to Nissan's burly new Titan pickup. Nissan also showed a new version of its compact Frontier truck. 
Honda, the only one of the six largest automakers in the United States market that does not sell a pickup truck, said on Sunday that it would build its first pickup truck by 2005. It pitched an early prototype of the truck, which looks like a cross between a car, a truck and a spaceship, as a quirky vehicle that is more for "cool dads" than construction workers. 
Tom Elliott, executive vice president of American Honda, said that many consumers now look at trucks "not as work vehicles but instead as products to support their active lifestyles."
The growth in pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, both in sales and size, has for years been ratcheting up the nation's gasoline consumption even as fuel-saving technology has advanced. Pickup trucks are increasingly sold as luxury passenger vehicles for people who do not need them for heavy lifting. 
If hybrids have had some positive effect on the nation's gas consumption, they are not now sold in enough volume to have a big impact. 
The industry over all remains mixed on the prospects for hybrids, which improve fuel economy and reduce emissions by supplementing internal combustion engines with electric motors. 
"I'm just not a blind monk of hybrid technology," said Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan, adding that the technology was still too expensive to be profitable or a good value for buyers.
Hybrids add a few thousand dollars to the manufacturer's cost of a vehicle. A package of tax deductions for the vehicles died when the energy bill stalled in Congress last month. 
Nissan plans to sell a hybrid version of its Altima in 2006, but Mr. Ghosn said it would not be profitable. 
Toyota has been far more bullish on the technology, predicting that by the end of this decade people will have bought two million hybrids worldwide -- 600,000 of them in the United States alone. Analysts forecast that Americans will buy about 50,000 hybrid vehicles this year. 
Yoshio Ishizaka, an executive vice president at Toyota, said on Monday that the company's hybrid sedan, the Prius, was already profitable and was becoming more so. He added that Toyota had reduced its costs for producing hybrid systems by more than 30 percent since they were introduced in the late 1990's. 
"Every Prius we make, we make a profit," he said. 
In addition to the Prius, Toyota will offer a hybrid version of the Lexus RX sport utility by fall. On Sunday, the company added that within a year it would sell a hybrid version of the Toyota Highlander, an S.U.V. that is built on the same underpinnings as the Lexus. A Toyota executive said the Highlander hybrid could travel 600 miles on a single tank of gas.
On Monday, Honda said that it would add a hybrid car from its Acura division this year to the two Honda hybrids that it already sells. 
And Ford has previously said it will become the world's third automaker to sell a hybrid when a version of its Escape sport utility vehicle goes on sale this summer. 
"Because of that, we'll be talking more about the environment this year," said William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Ford. He added that protecting the environment was "a core value to me."
The Detroit show looks like an inversion of those a half decade ago, when the Big Three focused on sport utilities and pickups while the Japanese automakers came to dominate passenger cars. 
As Toyota, Nissan and Honda push into pickups, the Big Three -- General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group division of DaimlerChrysler -- are all talking about winning back passenger car customers. A lack of profitability in cars has been a considerable business challenge for the domestic industry. 
"If we can be successful in trucks continuously, why not do it in cars?" said Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive of the Chrysler Group. "The profits in trucks didn't necessarily come from the fact that it's the natural order that trucks are profitable." 
Trucks brought in profits for American companies in the 1990's, he said, because there was less competition than in the passenger car market. "We didn't have the imports in those segments," he said. "They are coming no matter what. So if we do not understand how to work competitively, we won't be successful in trucks or in cars."
Toyota's FTX prototype pickup, which owes its design flair to Japanese cartoons, was meant to suggest what Toyota plans in its next-generation full-size pickup. The Tundra, its current full-size pickup, is not quite as large as the Nissan Titan or the offerings from Detroit. But the FTX is big: nearly 19 feet long, 7 feet wide and 6.5 feet tall. Its design features massive metal bumpers, although Toyota painted it turquoise with white trim, an approachable combination.
James E. Press, executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales, said the automaker was giving "serious consideration" to developing a hybrid version of the FTX. Mr. Press said the truck could provide a platform for an advanced hybrid engine, providing V-8 power with the efficiency of a V-6 engine.
Stressing the point, Mr. Press took the hybrid decal that Toyota uses on the Prius and held it next to the side of the FTX. 
"That looks quite nice," he said, addressing a row of Toyota's Japanese executives, who would have final say over whether a hybrid truck reaches the market. 
Given that the project has not yet been approved, Mr. Press said a hybrid engine would not be ready when the FTX, set to be built in San Antonio, is introduced in 2006.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about automakers' plans for more hybrid vehicles misidentified one model that Honda will start selling this year. It is an Accord, not an Acura. Because of an editing error, the article also referred incorrectly to a forecast from the Toyota Motor Company. The figure of two million sold by the end of the decade was for Toyota models only, not those of all automakers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Toyota presented a hybrid version of its Highlander sport utility vehicle on Sunday at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. It says the hybrid will be able to travel 600 miles on a tank of gas. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SPACECRAFT (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONCEPT CARS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); CONSUMPTION (75%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (61%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (50%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 7201 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



123 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Property Sale Raises Questions Amid Ethics Inquiry 

BYLINE:  By MIKE McINTIRE and ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Back when Gov. John G. Rowland was still a representative from Connecticut in the 1980's, he bought a tiny apartment in Washington to use when Congress was in session.
 But by June 1997, having just purchased the weekend cottage that has since become the center of an ethics scandal, Governor Rowland was looking to sell the old apartment. He found a buyer who paid him $68,500, considerably more than the $30,000 to $50,000 that other units in the same building sold for at that time. 
 And two years later, when the buyer, Wayne E. Pratt, a Connecticut antiques dealer with showrooms in Woodbury, Conn., and Nantucket, Mass., no longer wanted to hold on to the apartment, he sold it for $30,000 less than what he had paid, property records show. 
Mr. Rowland's profitable real estate transaction attracted no attention at the time, and probably would be of little interest today if not for the political and legal crises arising out of other aspects of his financial affairs. But the sale, and the involvement of a multimillionaire real estate investor, Robert V. Matthews, who helped Mr. Rowland first lease and then sell the apartment, could make the sale another troublesome issue for a governor who has been criticized for personal financial transactions with people heavily involved in state business. 
Mr. Rowland has admitted giving a false account about free work performed on his cottage by aides and government contractors, paid an ethics fine for discounted vacations he accepted from people doing business with his administration, and acknowledged joining a real estate partnership with a state paving contractor while governor.
Mr. Matthews, a longtime friend of Mr. Rowland's who has received at least $5 million in economic development loans and loan guarantees and $7.5 million more in lease payments during Mr. Rowland's tenure, said that his involvement with the apartment was simply done for a friend, and that he reaped no benefit.
But at a time when the governor cannot afford any more controversy, the apartment transaction is likely to get close scrutiny.
Mr. Rowland continued to hold on to the apartment after becoming governor in 1994. But within two years, he began renting it to a niece of Mr. Matthews.
"She was going to Georgetown," Mr. Matthews said of his niece, "and needed a place to stay, and I knew he had an empty apartment and I e-mailed her. Basically all I did was tell her about the apartment and that was it, and she leased it on her own."
In an interview last night, Mr. Matthews said his niece paid Mr. Rowland about $1,000 a month until June 1997, when the governor sold the apartment to Mr. Pratt, a close friend of Mr. Matthews.
Asked what role he played in helping Mr. Rowland sell the apartment to Mr. Pratt, Mr. Matthews said:
"I'm sure Wayne had to find out from me or the governor, but probably through me because my niece was leasing it and we were good friends. I'm sure I said, 'John is selling his apartment. Do you want to buy it?' "
Washington property records reflect sales of 13 other apartments in the same building between 1996 and 1999, ranging in price from $10,000 to $54,000. Last year, the city's tax assessor estimated that the market value of Mr. Rowland's former apartment was $54,400, still far below the $68,500 selling price in 1997.
A spokesman for Mr. Rowland said last night that the governor's office would have no comment on the apartment sale.
Mr. Pratt, in a brief interview last month at his Woodbury antiques store, would say only that his purchase of Mr. Rowland's apartment was "an investment opportunity that was presented to me." He added that he does not know the governor and has no business dealings with the state.
In 1997, the same year that Mr. Rowland sold his apartment, his administration awarded economic development loans and loan guarantees totaling $4.7 million to companies owned by Mr. Matthews. Mr. Matthews is a longtime friend of the governor, who during his divorce lived briefly in one of Mr. Matthews's homes. Mr. Matthews also owns the Palm Beach vacation getaway that was a subject of Mr. Rowland's ethics fine.
Mr. Pratt would not talk about Mr. Matthews, who was once described in a Hartford Courant story as his best friend. Mr. Matthews would sometimes go on buying trips with Mr. Pratt, who helped Mr. Matthews and his wife furnish their Nantucket estate. In 2000, the two men invested $200,000 together to purchase an original draft copy of the Bill of Rights that had surfaced on the antiques market.
That investment led to a falling out between the pair when it turned out that the document had been stolen from North Carolina during the Civil War, and federal authorities stepped in to seize it from Mr. Pratt last year as he was preparing to sell it. Mr. Pratt relinquished his claim on the parchment, but Mr. Matthews chose to fight, and is suing both the federal government and his former friend, Mr. Pratt.
Mr. Matthews has owned a number of companies and properties that have benefited from state economic development assistance, as well as state office leases that date to the administration of Mr. Rowland's predecessor, Lowell P. Weicker Jr.
One of his companies, Fabricated Metal Products, received a $3.6 million loan guarantee from the Connecticut Development Authority in 1997, which at the time was one of the largest awarded by the Rowland administration. That same year another Matthews company, New Haven Manufacturing, received a $1.1 million loan from the authority.
The state during Mr. Rowland's tenure also has paid more than $7 million to lease office space in a New Haven building owned by Mr. Matthews.
Last year, Mr. Matthews surfaced in an ethics controversy involving the governor, in which Mr. Rowland paid almost $9,000 to settle a State Ethics Commission complaint about his acceptance of discounted vacation rentals from wealthy businessmen who had dealings with the state.
One of those businessmen was Mr. Matthews, who let Mr. Rowland stay for free, for five days in 2001, at a luxury home he owns in Palm Beach. Other homes in Florida and Vermont that Mr. Rowland admitted staying at are owned by members of the Tomasso family, whose construction companies are at the center of a wide-ranging investigation of possible bid-rigging and bribery by state officials.
Mr. Matthews's friendship with Mr. Rowland dates to when they were neighbors in Middlebury, Conn., in the 1980s. After Mr. Rowland separated from his wife in 1992, he stayed for a time in a carriage house on Mr. Matthews's property.
As part of his divorce, Mr. Rowland gave up his interest in most of the assets he shared with his former wife, including their Middlebury home. However, he retained ownership of the Washington apartment, at 637 Third Street. N.E., a 278-square-foot unit he bought in the late 1980s for about $57,000.
In May 1997, two and half years after becoming governor, Mr. Rowland and his second wife, Patricia, bought a weekend cottage in Litchfield, Conn., for $110,000. A month later, Mr. Rowland sold his Washington apartment to Mr. Pratt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCANDALS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); SALES & SELLING (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (64%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



124 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Officials to Consider Role of Preservation at Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
What is historic about the World Trade Center site?
 The reflexive answer, of course, is everything. But beginning today, government agencies, preservationists, planners, builders, neighbors and the relatives of those who died on Sept. 11, 2001, will try to forge an official response, one that will guide redevelopment of the site. 
 They will attempt to define the boundaries and features that would make ground zero eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, in a process outlined by the National Historic Preservation Act. Then they will assess what adverse effects that reconstruction might have on the historic areas and, if there are any adverse effects, propose ways to avoid, lessen or soften these impacts. 
Many groups will be represented as consulting parties in the first meeting today, at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. But they will be there by invitation only. The meeting will otherwise be closed to the press and general public. The review process is expected to run at least until the summer.
Though the federal preservation act is 38 years old -- a product of an era in which interstate highways and urban renewal projects seemed to be obliterating the historical landscape -- it has rarely dealt with as unconventional a site as ground zero.
To begin with, the trade center site falls far short of the ordinary 50-year age requirement for registry eligibility. That, however, can be overcome with a finding that it possesses exceptional significance.
More challenging, the site is both a mass graveyard and a neighborhood in its own right, brimming with emotional resonance but almost devoid of the three-dimensional structures that once made it a global cynosure. It is now a raw-edged precinct in which every protrusion of steel or concrete can signify to many people the most memorable and painful day they will ever know.
In the review, for instance, a balance may have to be found between preserving the remnants of the towers' footprints, which are still partly visible as rusted steel column footings around the base of the site, and accommodating a permanent PATH terminal.
As another example, participants may find themselves weighing the loss of the last of the trade center garage, with levels that are still vibrantly color coded, against the construction of Freedom Tower.
No one expects this to be easy.
"In a difficult process of such high visibility, with so many interested parties, perhaps not everyone will be happy," said Bernadette Castro, New York State commissioner of parks, recreation and historic preservation, in what may prove to be a considerable understatement.
Ms. Castro is also vice chairwoman of the federal Advisory Council on Historic Preservation which oversees the review process. She said she might end up recusing herself from one of the two roles.
Ground zero is subject to review under Section 106 of the preservation act because the government is providing financing for the new PATH terminal, through the Federal Transit Administration; the reconstruction of West Street-Route 9A, through the Federal Highway Administration; and the activities of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, through the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Kevin M. Rampe, the president of the development corporation, said historical resources at the site would also be studied under a separate environmental review.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site and is developing the permanent PATH terminal, will probably be most directly affected by the review. Its cultural resources consultant is Dr. John A. Hotopp, senior vice president of the Louis Berger Group, which was involved in the recent disinterment and reburial of some 3,500 graves from a potter's field in Secaucus, N.J., to make way for a highway interchange.
In the trade center review, there are now 65 consulting parties, and the list may grow. They include the Alliance for Downtown New York, the Coalition of 9/11 Families, the Families of September 11, the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese, the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, the Municipal Art Society, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the New-York Historical Society, the New York Landmarks Conservancy, Pace University, the Regional Plan Association, Silverstein Properties, the Van Alen Institute, Verizon, the World Monuments Fund and three members of Congress.
Achieving consensus or compromise in such a group may seem unlikely. But speaking generally about the process, Don L. Klima, the director of federal agency programs at the advisory council, said: "Everyone is motivated to reach a memorandum of agreement. The agency wants to maintain control of the project, and the preservationists want to reach a memorandum of agreement because it's legally binding on the agency."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ground zero in May 2002. A formal process begins today to determine the site's eligibility for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. (Photo by Paul J. DeMeo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (91%); HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



125 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Man Gets 35 Years For Rape 

BYLINE:  By Susan Saulny (NYT); Compiled by Christine Hauser

 BODY:
 A 23-year-old man who pleaded guilty last month to sodomy and rape involving four women in Manhattan was sentenced yesterday in State Supreme Court to 35 years in prison. The man, Tyrone Williams, has a criminal record dating to 1997 that includes burglary and grand larceny convictions. 
He pleaded guilty on Dec. 8 to two counts of sodomy and two counts of rape, the top charges in an 18-count indictment, an official in the office of Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, said. Mr. Williams, who was unemployed at the time of his arrest in May, still faces separate charges in the Bronx related to three attacks against women there. His next court date is Jan. 12. Susan Saulny (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (93%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INDICTMENTS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); LARCENY & THEFT (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); BURGLARY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); ARRESTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



126 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ECONOMIC PROPOSALS; 
Clark and Kerry Offering Plans to Help Middle Class

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Edward Wyatt reported from Nashua, N.H., for this article, and David M. Halbfinger from Des Moines.

DATELINE: NASHUA, N.H., Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Gen. Wesley K. Clark on Monday proposed a broad overhaul of the tax code that would eliminate federal income tax payments for families of four earning up to $50,000 and cut taxes for families with incomes of up to $100,000.
 The plan, which General Clark called a cornerstone of his domestic agenda, would also raise taxes on Americans with annual incomes of $1 million or more. 
 "I believe that those who work hard and excel should be rewarded," he said in a speech here. "But I also believe that all Americans must pay their fair share in the burden of preserving and protecting our country." 
On the same day, as the Democratic presidential candidates looked toward the first voting in Iowa in two weeks, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, another Democratic candidate, made proposals to rein in what he termed the "outsourcing" of American jobs overseas.
Mr. Kerry criticized the Bush administration as the tool of special interests. And in about as populist an appeal as he has made, he railed in a speech in Des Moines against a system he called "stacked against" average workers.
"I'm running for president because the American people are calling 911 for help," Mr. Kerry said.
"I think the American people are tired of watching corporate executives on Friday afternoons pile into their airplanes paid for by their corporations," he said, "going to homes paid for by the corporations, playing golf on the weekend in memberships paid for by the corporations, going to shows on Broadway paid for by the corporations, all of which is subsidized by the American taxpayer while the American taxpayer is struggling to get along."
"Middle-class families have an agenda, too," he shouted to loud applause. "And it's about time someone in the White House held a special meeting for them."
The candidates turned to the economy as they stepped up their efforts to catch up with Howard Dean, who is ahead in the polls in the early voting states.
General Clark said his proposals were intended "to take back tax reform as our issue," rather than leaving it to the Republican Party.
"For them, tax reform is too often a cover for giving huge tax breaks to the families of the wealthiest Americans," he said. "They don't care if it's for working families, if it makes the tax code more complicated or if it explodes the deficit."
General Clark said his plan would eliminate the need for most American families to file federal income tax forms. Taxpayers would be free to use a simple three-line form to allow the Internal Revenue Service to calculate how much they owe.
Under his proposal, General Clark said, a typical married couple with two children making $85,000 would get a $975 tax cut, while a family of four with income of $50,000 would save $1,500, its entire previous tax liability. Currently a family of four earning up to $39,000 does not pay federal taxes.
General Clark acknowledged that many of his plan's benefits would not flow to married couples without children or to single taxpayers.
Jeffrey Liebman, an associate professor of public policy at Kennedy School of Government at Harvard who appraised the Clark plan at the request of the campaign, said it would remove 3.2 million Americans from the tax rolls. About 31 million families would get a tax cut, he said, roughly 86 percent of all families with children. The average tax cut for families with children would be $1,044, Mr. Liebman said, while the average cut for families without children would be $99.
General Clark said the tax cuts would not increase the deficit. They would be offset by the higher taxes on wealthiest Americans and the closing of what General Clark called "corporate loopholes," particularly those that he says reward companies for moving jobs offshore.
The highest-income taxpayers, in addition to their 39.6 percent rate, would pay a 5 percent surcharge on all income above $1 million. The marginal tax rate for those Americans would be 44.6 percent, the highest since 1986, Mr. Clark's aides said. General Clark issued a direct challenge to Karl Rove, President Bush's chief political adviser, daring Mr. Rove to attack him as an old-style tax-and-spend Democrat. "You don't have to read my lips," General Clark said. "I'm saying it. And if that makes me an old-style Democrat, then I accept that label with pride."
Mr. Kerry focused Monday on new proposals for stanching the flow of jobs overseas. He dismissed recent positive economic reports as a "Bush-league recovery" and a "special interest recovery," saying that average income grew by only 3 cents last quarter, though the economy grew at a rate of 8 percent.
One proposal, a call for a law requiring that telemarketers disclose where they are calling from, featured a rare whiff of America-first rhetoric from Mr. Kerry, otherwise an ardent supporter of globalism and free trade.
"A quarter of a million call-center jobs have been sent overseas in the past three years," he said. "When people pick up the phone they hear people who've been trained to speak in an American twang and dialect, so you won't know where they are."
He also noted that the State of New Jersey had filled some government-service jobs with offshore labor. He said he would ensure that if government contracts could be performed by American companies, they would be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX REFORM (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); CHILDREN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (71%); NASHUA, NH, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



127 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Fund Industry Challenges Fee Data Cited bySpitzer 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
The trade group for the mutual fund industry will release another volley today in its continuing campaign to prove that the New York State attorney general, Elliot Spitzer, is wrong in saying that funds pay more than they should for money management services.
 The new study, by Sean Collins, a senior economist at the trade group, the Investment Company Institute, supports the conclusions of a brief report the group issued in November. That report found near parity in the advisory fees paid by public pension funds and the so-called subadviser fees that mutual fund managers pay when they farm out the management of a portion of their portfolios to another investment adviser. 
 Both studies found that those fees, on average, are about the same for each dollar under management -- 28 basis points for public pension plans and 31 basis points for subadvised mutual funds. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent, so a fee of 28 basis points results in a $28 fee for every $10,000 invested. 
But a draft copy of the new report marshals more extensive arguments in an effort to rebut an academic study that Mr. Spitzer has cited in his complaints about fund management fees. The study, which appeared almost three years ago in the Journal of Corporation Law, was written by John P. Freeman, a professor of legal and business ethics at the University of South Carolina, and Stewart L. Brown, a finance professor at Florida State University.
In "Mutual Fund Advisory Fees: The Cost of Conflict of Interest," the professors argued that fund investors were paying more for investment advice than they should because fund boards with conflicts had failed to negotiate better money management deals for shareholders.
Both studies rely on public pension funds as the benchmark for investment advisory fees paid by mutual funds. The Freeman-Brown study found that public pension funds paid just 21 basis points for investment advice on the management of large-capitalization stock funds, compared with 52 basis points paid by investors in similar mutual funds.
Pension funds paid 42 basis points for the management of midsize-capitalization funds and 58 basis points for small-capitalization funds, while mutual funds paid 71 basis points in both cases, that study showed.
The new Investment Company Institute study echoes the argument that the fees paid by mutual funds cover a broader assortment of services than those paid by pension funds and that their fees cannot therefore be fairly compared. But the new study concludes that operational differences between public pension funds and mutual funds have a significant effect on management fees.
For example, the average mutual fund complex has "vastly more accounts" than the average pension plan, the study reports. It argues that, if operational efficiency is measured in terms of costs for each account, instead of costs for each dollar of assets, pension funds do not look as good. Pension funds pay $335 in expenses for each individual pension account, compared with $148 in expenses for each mutual fund account, the study showed.
Other differences between mutual funds and pension plans could skew fee comparisons, the study argues. The average mutual fund account is much smaller than the average pension fund account; pension funds rely far more on low-cost index funds than mutual fund investors do; and mutual funds are required by law to be much more liquid than pension plans, which may make managing them more challenging.
Professor Freeman, in a telephone interview yesterday, said he was unimpressed by those arguments, as low-cost fund complexes like Vanguard are able to negotiate for management fees that are much lower than the average industry fee despite those circumstances.
The real issue for the fund industry will be whether the report is persuasive to Mr. Spitzer, who has already forced one big fund complex, Alliance Capital, to reduce its future management fees.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer said yesterday that the attorney general did not wish to comment on the new findings until he had studied them. In Congressional testimony in November, though, he called on fund companies to charge the mutual funds they sponsor no more than they charge pension funds for similar money management services.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Putnam Imposes Fee
BOSTON, Jan. 5, (AP) -- Putnam Investments, a unit of Marsh & McLennan, said Monday that trustees approved a 2 percent redemption fee on fund shares exchanged or sold within five days of purchase, a move intended to discourage short-term market- timing trades.
Previously, Putnam imposed 1 percent redemption fees on global and international funds exchanged or sold within 90 days on some accounts, and in December expanded that policy to cover all Putnam-administered 401(k) plans and taxable high-yield funds.
The Investment Company Institute has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to impose a 2 percent redemption fee on short-term transactions across the industry, a request the commission is expected to consider next month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); BONDS (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ETHICS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (54%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



128 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 904 words

PERSON: Caroline Miller 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Staying Alive in a Piranha Pool, Er, Fishbowl

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
FOR a woman built along broomstick proportions -- make that whisk broom -- there's a ludicrously gargantuan pair of green boxing gloves atop Caroline Miller's desk at New York magazine, where she has presided, by most accounts without resorting to fisticuffs, since 1996. This designates her, in the recession-racked, ego-driven piranha pool that is New York City's magazine business, as a certified survivor. For now. 
 Last month, New York magazine was sold for $55 million in just plain cash to the Wall Street mogul Bruce Wasserstein, head of Lazard and a principal owner of several less glamorous publications like The American Lawyer, The New York Law Journal, and The Deal, a trade bible for high-wire, deep-pocketed deal-lovers like himself. 
 The transaction is to be completed later this week; the editor in chief, scribbling away at transition plans that include an immediate expansion of the writing staff but no immediate renovation of the editorial overview, presumes she's part of the package. Then again, never assume: that's what she learned 25 years ago in her first reporting stint at The Ithaca Journal, a spot where, after she moaned about the shoddy editing of her pieces, her boss dared her to become an editor herself if she thought she could do better. Some promotion. But it stuck. As she hopes this job will. 
"I know all bets are off anytime anything is sold," says Ms. Miller, 55, a mother of three and the wife and occasional collaborator of Eric Himmel, editor in chief at Harry N. Abrams, an art book publisher. 
Their photo book, "September 11, 2001," raised $250,000 for the September 11 Fund. "I knew when I walked in here in 1996 that I could be fired any day," she said. "Editing New York, you're in a fishbowl, and speculation about your demise is practically a spectator sport." 
Unmindful of potential wrinkles to her svelte black Armani jacket, she thrusts her arm elbow-deep into a boxing glove and gives her inquisitor a spirited jab to the bicep, then another, harder one. The second hit produces the desired effect: these are Incredible Hulk gloves, and they emit belligerent grunts whenever sufficiently serious body contact is made. Next she elucidates the link between those gaudy green gloves and the glossy magazine she edits: "Here at New York, we're tougher than we look," she asserts, tossing her blond pageboy around. 
Message received: New York magazine is a scrappy team sport. Why else would Ms. Miller and assorted colleagues be here on the day after New Year's, an anticlimactic day when the magazine's soon-to-be-ex-parent company, Primedia Inc., is officially closed. But what about her? Is she tougher than she looks? 
"It has been said," she retorts with a blip of a grin. "This is a job that gives you nerves of steel." Ms. Miller drops her glove, retrieves a cup of Starbucks black brew (she says the more caffeinated she gets, the smarter she feels), and rests her black-booted feet on a glass coffee table. 
She describes herself as no more or less gossip-obsessed than the rest of the staff. She participated in, indeed starred in, the gallows humor wafting through the office pre-and-post sale. But she seems optimistic that Mr. Wasserstein will do something Primedia didn't: pump some dough into the editorial coffers. 
"We're already great on social trends, on sexual politics, on reconstructing murders and scandals, and with an infusion of capital, we'll be able to work on the gravitas," she predicts. She endorses Mr. Wasserstein's intention to bump up their business coverage. So is she about to surrender her voice to his in order to hang onto a job she deems coveted by every magazine editor in New York City? 
"I've been on a mission to keep this magazine alive, smart and compelling in very difficult times," she says, of its profit plunge to $1 million in 2002 from $8 million in the mid-90's, "and I don't think he bought it because he thinks he can reinvent it. Bruce Wasserstein didn't buy the magazine so he could make it more about what he's interested in; that's a mistake many people make, but I'm gonna stick my neck out and say that's not a mistake he's going to make." 
Ms. Miller grew up in Seattle, where her father was an executive at Boeing. Though she wanted to attend college in New York, her parents forbade it. She wound up at Stanford, where her political and feminist consciousness was raised. After her first husband drew No. 66 in the Vietnam War draft, he got conscientious objector status and they moved to Oregon; she went to graduate school at Reed College, taught, and then moved to upstate New York. 
THE marriage didn't last, but her journalism career germinated in Ithaca. From there, she moved with her daughter to New York City, and held editorial positions at New York Newsday, Lear's, Variety and Seventeen before succeeding Kurt Andersen at New York.
Ms. Miller, who keeps a low profile on the dinner party circuit and gardens on Fire Island when she feels the need to disconnect from publishing, insists New York's present sensibility, including its bevy of "best of" service articles, is not so different from the template that Clay Felker and Milton Glaser invented in 1968. 
"I don't think there's any need to apologize for what we do," she says. "In the Felker era, in the same issue you'd have, say, Tom Wolfe on radical chic and Gael Greene on the best bagel; we still take both of these things very seriously." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: CAROLINE MILLER (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BOOK PUBLISHING (69%) Magazines

COMPANY: PRIMEDIA INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: New York (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (54%) Robin Finn; Caroline Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 



129 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 855 words

PERSON: Takashi Ishihara 

HEADLINE: Takashi Ishihara, 91, Dies; Led Nissan's Rise 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Takashi Ishihara, who marshaled the fierceness of a rugby player and the precision of an accountant to lead the Nissan Motor Company to global prominence, died on Dec. 28 at a Tokyo hospital. He was 91.
 The announcement of his death came in a statement by his son Yoshiharu that was reported by The Associated Press. 
 Mr. Ishihara was president of Nissan during the years in which Japan surged ahead of Detroit to become the world's largest auto producer. He became a highly visible spokesman, often a notably loquacious one, at a time when politicians enacted quotas to limit imports of Japanese cars because Americans liked them better than Detroit's. 
Moreover, he was a frequent spokesman on economic and trade issues before Congress and elsewhere as chairman of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives, as well as the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association. 
Mr. Ishihara pushed Nissan into visibility and then profitability as the first president of its United States subsidiary in the early 1960's, and in the 1970's he guided Nissan's exploitation of the suddenly unquenchable market for small cars in the wake of soaring oil prices.
In the 1980's, as president of the company, he built plants to make Nissan vehicles in the United States and Britain. His style was hands-on in a corporate culture used to deference: before him, top Japanese executives seldom visited assembly lines.
David Halberstam, in "The Reckoning" (Morrow, 1986), his study of the Japanese car industry, suggested Mr. Ishihara, a former rugby player, "more than any other Japanese auto executive" looked like a counterpart of his "burly, forceful Detroit peers."
Mr. Ishihara "flaunted," Mr. Halberstam said, "an almost pugnacious physical quality." He took risks, almost eagerly. In the early 1960's, he told Nissan's board that he would resign from the company if the $500,000 investment he was requesting for American operations did not result in a profit.
"Years later, when Ishihara was president of Nissan and was frequently congratulated on the brilliance of Nissan's performance in America, he was always mildly amused, for he knew how near they had come to failure," Mr. Halberstam wrote.
Takashi Ishihara was born in Tokyo on March 3, 1912. He graduated from Tohoku University in 1937 with a law degree. He then joined Nissan.
He enjoyed telling friends that he got the job because he was not talented enough for the first-rate places, the banks and high ministries, Mr. Halberstam wrote. He advanced rapidly during World War II; he did not serve in the military.
"I was lucky," he later said. "All the smarter young men had to go into the army, so there was little competition in my generation."
By 1945 Mr. Ishihara had risen to director of Nissan's accounting department, a pivotal position at a time the company was struggling to pay its bills. He was named a director of the company in 1954.
He was then named director of exports, and in 1960 set up an export subsidiary in the United States. He insisted that he do the job from Tokyo, where he could better navigate Nissan's tangled office politics. He was promoted to managing director in 1963 and two years later became head of sales in Japan.
Mr. Ishihara scored a big success in the mid-1960's by backing a small car with a one-liter engine for the Japanese domestic market. Other directors opposed it because a similar car made by Toyota, the Publica, had sold poorly. Nissan's car, called the Datsun Sunny, became the company's best-selling model, Michael A. Cusumano wrote in "The Japanese Automobile Industry: Technology and Management at Nissan and Toyota" (Harvard, 1989).
Mr. Ishihara did not become president of Nissan until he was 65, when he was already something of a legend. He made deals with West Germans and Italians without even mentioning the transactions to local Nissan officials. Mr. Halberstam suggested that Mr. Ishihara was unusually "self-interested" for a Japanese executive, saying that he "nakedly wanted the credit."
He set up a design studio near San Diego that became celebrated for its groundbreaking automotive designs. It developed the 1986 Hardbody pickup, the muscular 1987 Pathfinder and the modular 1987 Pulsar NX.
He served as president from 1977 to 1985, and later as chairman for seven years. One of his biggest initiatives was building a plant in Tennessee, which assembled trucks beginning in 1983 and added cars two years later. The factory was highly automated, in part because Mr. Ishihara doubted the quality of American workers.
"There are great differences between them in loyalty to the company, their enthusiasm to work and other factors," Mr. Ishihara said in an interview in 1980.
Such forthrightness was not uncommon. In 1990, Mr. Ishihara suggested that Japan might be better off if its governing party, the Liberal Democrats, were split into two centrist parties. In 1999, he said in an interview that Renault, which had become the largest holder of Nissan stock, was a second-rate company.
The Associated Press said that Mr. Ishihara is survived by his wife, Shizuko, his son Yoshiharu and another son, whom The A.P. did not name.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Tuesday about Takashi Ishihara, the former president of the Nissan Motor Company, misstated the date of his death. It was Dec. 31, not Dec. 28.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Takashi Ishihara (Photo by Associated Press, 1981) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); ARMIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (94%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (56%); JAPAN ASSOCIATION OF CORPORATE EXECUTIVES (56%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004 #100T040110SIOSA01# #100T040110SPPLA01# #100T040110S100A01# #100T040110S102A01# #100T040110S329A01# 



130 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Plugging a Hole in Brooklyn's Heart; 
A Web of Urban Challenges to Rival Dallas or Los Angeles

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
Brooklyn nurses its grudge against Manhattan with all the subtlety of King Kong, a Red Sox fan or Gerald R. Ford.
 So this may come as perverse consolation, but slowly, quietly and over the course of decades, the borough has created something -- or, rather, a conspicuous nothing -- that elevates it among the ranks of the country's real, independent big cities. 
 At the borough's heart, framed by the waterfront to the west, the arts center to the east, the civic center to the north and a thriving residential neighborhood and dining scene to the south, sit eight square blocks of urban blight. There are some buildings, some beauty salons, a deli here and there, but the dominant features of this rectangle bounded by Atlantic Avenue, Schermerhorn Street, Court Street and Bond Street are parking lots, fences, dirt, and nothing.
By virtue of its centrality and run-down state, this area gives Brooklyn a challenge and an opportunity that compares not with Manhattan but more directly with the West End in Dallas, downtown Columbus, Ohio, or Skid Row in Los Angeles. In short, it is the archetypal little urban patch right in the middle of everything that no one knows how to use. 
What sets this one apart from comparable sites in those other cities is that it includes an unrelated patchwork of seven major projects, five of them already under way.
"What's there right now is an area that hasn't had much attention paid to it," said Glenn D. Markman, an executive director of the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield. "Now, the focus is there. The vision is going to result in this being one of the important gateways in all of Brooklyn."
The success of each project, though, depends to some extent upon completion of the others. And around the intersection of Willoughby Street and the Flatbush Avenue Extension, more is at stake. The city of New York has earmarked that zone for a $100 million economic development project and identified it as one of the city's last best hopes to retain companies and jobs after so many have moved away in pursuit of less expensive real estate.
That commercial area, where the city hopes to create 4.5 million square feet of new office space, is linked to Manhattan by the Brooklyn Bridge and the Manhattan Bridge and subway service, including the A, C, F, M, N and R lines and the 2, 3, 4 and 5 trains. It is isolated, though, from much of what Brooklyn has to offer, including the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the promenade and a group of neighborhoods so trendy that the civic boosters have taken to referring to them collectively as BoCoCa, for Boerum Hill, Cobble Hill and Carroll Gardens.
What stands between them all is this frozen zone, its south side sometimes called the Atlantic Avenue Gap, which is now thawing in chunks.
"It's one of the most critical intersections in all of Brooklyn," said David Yassky, a City Council member whose district office is on Court Street at the edge of this zone.
This barren but strategically invaluable area was nearly a half-century in the making, created from the Brooklyn House of Detention -- which was erected in 1957 and emptied last year -- and three urban renewal sites acquired by the state for a project that was aborted in the 1970's.
New plans for the lots would create a mixed-income residential neighborhood served by its own retail stores and hotels.
The most expensive and intricate of the projects is an effort to overhaul a full city block bounded by Schermerhorn, Hoyt, State and Smith Streets.
The presence of five historic town houses near the southeastern flank makes the block visually striking. They make this stretch of State Street look like any other tree-lined block of moneyed Brooklyn, only with a gaping hole plugged by a parking lot.
A partnership including Time Equities, known recently for its conversions of office buildings around Wall Street into apartments, and Abby Hamlin, a Brooklyn-born onetime dancer who has developed town houses in TriBeCa, bought the 100,000-square-foot site from the Empire State Development Corporation last month after two years of negotiations, for $4.6 million.
The developers say they intend to line State Street with 27 single-family town houses and to build about 200 apartments and lofts, a theater and retail space, perhaps including a supermarket. They have to work around the five town houses because of the historic designations, and the city mandated the inclusion of low-income housing, developed and managed jointly by the Actors' Fund and Common Ground. The total cost of the project is estimated at $165 million.
"It looked like an opportunity to do a project that would have a significant impact on the urban environment," Ms. Hamlin said.
Directly to the east, the state is selling a 60,000-square-foot parcel bounded by State, Bond, Hoyt and Schermerhorn Streets, to the IBEC Building Corporation in a deal expected to close for $3.5 million in the spring, state officials said. IBEC, which has been awarded development rights from the city, has indicated that it plans rental housing and the sale of town houses, state officials said.
South of those parcels, at Smith Street and Atlantic Avenue directly east of the House of Detention, Lev Leviev/Boymelgreen Developers paid the state $3.3 million last February for an 18,000-square-foot parcel, where it intends to build a boutique hotel with 50 luxury rental condominiums and 10,000 square feet of retail space. Work is under way at the site, and the building is scheduled to open in the spring of 2005 at a total cost of $30 million, according to the developer. 
"The projects count on each other," said T. William Kim, project developer for the hotel complex. "How much traffic comes into the area depends on there being some momentum and the right mix of services to create that niche."
On the other side of the House of Detention, at the intersection of Court Street and Atlantic Avenue, Two Trees Management, the company controlled by the Walentas family and best known for transforming the neighborhood known as Dumbo (Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass), bought the site from the city for $16.5 million and plans a $120 million project that would include a 700-space subterranean parking garage, 321 apartments for diverse income levels, 20,000 square feet of retail space and a new $14 million Y.M.C.A.
The same company has been engaged in negotiations to acquire the old Board of Education building at 110 Livingston Street. Though Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg slapped a red "Sold" sign on the front door for dramatic effect at a news conference in July, the sale still faces some public review, according to the city's Economic Development Corporation. Two Trees envisions transforming those offices into condominiums.
"Long-term, downtown Brooklyn is going to be what's going to compete with New Jersey," said Jed D. Walentas, an executive of Two Trees.
Between the two sites where Two Trees has its designs, on Boerum Place between State and Schermerhorn Streets, the Brooklyn Law School paid $6.2 million for a parking lot that it plans to convert into a residence hall for 360 students. The plans drawn up by Robert A. M. Stern call for an exterior of brick and cast stone to match the brownstones of the neighborhoods nearby, and Joan G. Wexler, dean of the school, said it would be completed in the spring of 2005 at a total cost of $83 million.
Across the street, on the east side of Boerum Place between State and Schermerhorn Streets, developers acquired yet another parking lot last year and have plans to build an 11-story tower of 99 one- and two-bedroom market-rate rental apartments. The project will be completed in the spring of 2004 at a total cost of $28 million, according to Mario Procida, a manager of the development group.
The fate of the stark Brooklyn House of Detention is among the more obvious variables, cited as a challenge by several of the developers. Though the building is empty, the city has characterized its closing as temporary and left open the possibility that it could be filled again, a prospect that would oblige all the fancy new apartment buildings to find tenants who do not mind living next door to a jail.
The obstacles do not end there.
"You have streetscapes that, most of them, are pretty ugly, with very few amenities, street trees," said Michael J. Burke, director of the Downtown Brooklyn Council, a business advocacy group. "That will require a lot of public investment."
If in fact a new neighborhood emerges, there remains the matter of winning over the neighbors. Few people are sorry to see the parking lots go, but the prospect of a new influx of people is not universally applauded in the existing neighborhoods.
"What are you going to do to create open space, realistically, that people can use?" said Jo Anne Simon, a past president of the Boerum Hill Association. She cited additional traffic as another concern.
And there are those who see the eventual success of the whole endeavor as a loss for Brooklyn, for reasons as old as the borough's grudge against the island to the northwest.
"When we become more like Manhattan due to the high-rises, it takes the personal nature out of it," said Matthew LaSorsa, owner of Heights Chateau, a wine store that has been on Atlantic Avenue between Clinton and Henry Streets since the mid-1980's. "I don't know that you ever get a communal feeling out of a high-rise building, as if you were walking down Henry Street and people were sitting on their stoops. It's not the same."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eight square blocks of blight pose a development challenge in a slice of Brooklyn that includes a patchwork of major projects. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) Map of Brooklyn shows the areas of proposed development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (54%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



131 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Intel Investing $200 Million In Home Entertainment
Intel plans to invest $200 million in start-up companies that are creating digital home entertainment technology that could eventually reach nearly every American household.
 The semiconductor company's venture capital fund is intended to support development of digital home entertainment networks, which would make it possible to connect various digital devices -- stereo systems, portable music players, flat-screen televisions and personal computers -- and allow those devices to share and transfer video, music and information from room to room. Page C5. 

A New Creative Director for Arnold
John Staffen, who resigned in October from DDB Worldwide, where he had been one of two executive creative directors, is joining the New York office of Arnold Worldwide. He will have the title of creative director, overseeing work for clients like the Bermuda Department of Tourism, GlaxoSmithKline, the United States Tennis Association and Welch Foods. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C3.

Reactions to Security Measures
The new security measures imposed on travel to the United States have caused starkly different reactions around the world. A1.

Antimissile Defenses for Planes
Northrop Grumman, BAE Systems and United Airlines were picked by the Homeland Security Department to lead teams of companies to try to adapt military antimissile defenses to protect civilian airliners. A18.

Diseased Cow Was Born in Canada
United States and Canadian officials confirmed that the Washington State cow diagnosed with mad cow disease was born in Alberta, Canada. They also said the investigation would continue until they discovered how and where the animal was infected. A14.

Apple to Sell Smaller IPod
Apple Computer has introduced a smaller, slightly less expensive version of its iPod digital music player and a more powerful $3,000 to $4,000 server computer based on the company's new G5 microprocessor. C5.

Walt Disney Revises Policies
The board of the Walt Disney Company adopted new guidelines for its corporate practices. It also voted to reconfigure the makeup of major committees, including the influential governance and nominating committee. The chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, also detailed initiatives for 2004 and forecast a 30 percent rise in earnings per share. C3.

Stewart Jury Selection Starts
Jury selection began for the trial of Martha Stewart and her former stockbroker, Peter E. Bacanovic, with scores of potential jurors reporting for duty in Lower Manhattan. C11.

Nasdaq and S.&P. Indexes Gain
The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.01 points, to 2,057.37, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 1.45 points, to 1,123.67. The Dow Jones industrials lost 5.41 points, to 10,538.66. C6.

Orders to factories fell 1.4 percent in November, the Commerce Department said. C6.

Ex-Parmalat Official Upset
The former head of Parmalat's operations in Venezuela, Giovanni Bonici, said that he felt shattered by the scandal at the company. C6.

McDonald's Caters to Popular Diets
Some McDonald's restaurants in the New York metropolitan area are displaying posters showing how to customize hamburgers and salads to fit some of the popular low-carbohydrate, low-fat diets. C3.

From Industry to Mixed Use
Emeryville, Calif., which is eight miles east of San Francisco, is redefining itself by moving from a totally industrial base to mixed-use neighborhoods with housing, shopping and entertainment. Commercial Real Estate. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,538.66 down 5.41Nasdaq composite -- 2,057.37 up 10.0110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% down 0.11The euro -- $1.2767 up 0.0098The dollar -- 106.17 yen up 0.09 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Walt Disney shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STARTUPS (89%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (89%); JURY TRIALS (84%); JURY DUTY (84%); MICROPROCESSORS (79%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); TENNIS (71%); SPORTS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (70%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (56%); MAMMALS (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (56%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); PARMALAT SPA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); DIS (NYSE) (82%); GSK (NYSE) (56%); GSK (LSE) (56%); BIOC (EGX) (56%); BA (LSE) (55%); NOC (NYSE) (55%); PLT (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (50%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (50%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (50%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



132 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: A Drop of 1.4% in November For Orders to Factories 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Orders to factories, after two months of solid increases, fell 1.4 percent in November, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday, the biggest decline in seven months. 
 But analysts viewed the drop as a temporary blip in what had been an improving picture for American manufacturers. 
 The Commerce Department said that while several sectors suffered declines in orders, the weakness was concentrated in communications, where orders plunged 41.1 percent. 
 Demand in all categories of durable goods was down 2.5 percent, a slightly smaller drop than the 3.1 percent originally stated in a preliminary report two weeks ago. It was the biggest decrease in durable goods in more than a year.
 Analysts noted that orders, especially for big-ticket items, are extremely volatile from month to month and said the November drop did nothing to shake their view that manufacturing, after suffering through the loss of 2.8 million jobs over the last three years, was on the verge of a rebound.
 A second report on Tuesday showed that sentiment in the services sector of the economy, where most Americans work, remained in positive territory although the nonmanufacturing index of the Institute of Supply Managers took a slight dip to 58.6 last month from 60.1 in November. It was the ninth consecutive month the index was signaling growth in services, represented by a reading above 50.
 This indication of expansion in services came after a report last week that the supply manager's closely watched manufacturing gauge climbed to a two-decade high in December.
 "The combination of the manufacturing and nonmanufacturing indices indicates that economic growth is broad based and strong," said Joel L. Naroff, head of a forecasting firm in Holland, Pa.
 In other news, the portion of credit card holders late on their card payments hit a record high of 4.09 percent in the third quarter of last year, the American Bankers Association reported. The figure was up from 4.04 percent in the second quarter.
 The chief economist for the association, James Chessen, said that Americans' financial difficulties had been intensified with the longer time it was taking many laid-off workers to find jobs.
 The association's data came after an earlier report by the Federal Reserve, which showed that total consumer debt in America hit a record of $1.98 trillion in October.
 The 1.4 percent decline in factory orders for November followed gains of 2.4 percent in October and 1.4 percent in September. It was the biggest decline since a 2.6 percent falloff last April.
 The 2.5 percent drop in orders for durable goods left total demand for durable goods at a seasonally adjusted $181.2 billion in November. Durable goods orders had been up 3.9 percent in October.
 Orders for nondurable goods, items not expected to last at least three years, were down as well in November, falling 0.2 percent after posting a 0.6 percent increase in October.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Factory Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Nov.: -1.4%Oct.: +2.4Sept.: +1.4 Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, from June 2002 to November 2003. (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); CREDIT CARDS (63%); CONSUMER LENDING (63%) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%) Commerce Department; Institute of Supply Management; American Bankers Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



133 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Alter Mortgage Rules Is Questioned 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
The government is proposing a rule aimed at giving consumers better estimates of the total cost of a home loan, but the mortgage finance industry and even consumer advocates have expressed concern that the measure is being rushed. 
 Without providing any specifics on the rule, which would overhaul the mortgage application process, the Department of Housing and Urban Development submitted what it called a final version last month to the Office of Management and Budget. 
 A version of the rule proposed a year and a half ago would have required lenders to offer a single price for the various costs of processing the mortgage -- including such expenses as appraisals and title insurance -- or to stick much more closely to initial estimates of those costs.
 HUD has estimated that a new rule would save home buyers $700 each on their loans, or $8 billion a year. That is more than a sixth of the $50 billion that HUD says Americans spend each year in closing costs. 
 HUD was flooded with nearly 43,000 letters of comment on the initial proposal, far more than it had ever received. Most approved of HUD's intentions -- to make borrowing simpler for prospective homebuyers -- but few agreed on the specifics of what a new rule should do. Mortgage brokers and bankers, appraisers and title insurers, real estate agents and consumer groups alike had been waiting for the revised rule. 
 "While we all may disagree on what the final rule should look like, we all agree that the stakes are too high for everybody for us not to get this right," said Stephen O'Connor, vice president of government affairs for the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
 A.W. Pickel III, president of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers, put it this way: "What HUD did flies in the face of democracy. They issued a final rule during Congress's recess."
 HUD defended its submission, pointing out that it spent a year and a half drafting its final proposal. In addition, it accepted public comments on the original rule for 90 days, rather than the usual 60, and asked 30 specific questions.
 In written testimony submitted to a hearing of the House Small Business Committee yesterday, John C. Weicher, assistant secretary for housing, said he could not comment on the new rule but assured the committee, "We carefully considered all comments offered by the public, including the comments offered by settlement service providers such as title agents, brokers, appraisers, credit bureaus, consumers, and others."
 He added: "I can also assure you that there has not been a rush to promulgate this regulation, but rather a deliberate and careful effort." The committee hearing was called by Donald A. Manzullo, Republican of Illinois, who has been an outspoken critic of the proposal. 
 HUD has not disclosed how the new proposal differs from the original. The budget office can review the measure for 90 days, and approve it by making it public in the Federal Register. Until the office approves or returns the proposal, the housing agency is prohibited from disclosing the details. The White House has endorsed a revision of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974, sometimes called Respa. Just hours before the final rule was submitted on Dec. 16, President Bush reiterated his support. "We have proposed new rules to make it easier for buyers to shop around and to compare prices on closing costs, so they can get the best deal and the best service possible," he said at a bill signing at the agency.
 Mel Martinez, who introduced the measure, resigned as the secretary of the housing agency in December to run for the Senate in Florida. Many industry professionals had expected the measure to fade with his departure.
 The agency has said its chief objective is to simplify home buying by bundling a loan's closing costs and the points charged on the loan or by guaranteeing an interest rate. Ideally, borrowers would then be able to shop for loans based simply on the interest rate and the cost of the loan. Furthermore, they would no longer be surprised by additional costs or new rates at the closing table. 
 "Most people hold their noses, and they close their eyes, and they pay the extra hundreds or extra thousands of dollars in unanticipated costs," said Brian Sullivan, a spokesman for HUD. Commenting on the original rule, he said: "One of the things that we've tried to build into this proposal is more certainty for consumers at the front end of the process." Consumer groups have supported changes in how mortgage costs are presented to consumers but have said they are concerned about several details. A consortium including the Consumer Federation of America and the Consumers Union told the Office of Management and Budget that it would only support a rule that included guarantees on interest rates and closing costs.
 "A myriad of important details must be worked through to ensure that the rule does in fact protect consumers, instead of simply providing a shield behind which mortgage originators can hide inappropriate, unfair and illegal activities," the groups said in a letter.
 Consumer advocates worry that any measure could aid predatory lending by obscuring the components of a loan. They have suggested that certain types of loans, like those that carry a prepayment fee, continue to require a list of each of the items that make up the loan's pricing. HUD has acknowledged that the original rule did not address predatory lending, saying that it lacks the authority. It has not indicated whether the final rule will address the issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (92%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INSURANCE (74%); TITLE INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); CITIES (71%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: DONALD A MANZULLO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



134 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
A Onetime Industrial Field Now Sprouting Storefronts

BYLINE:  By MORRIS NEWMAN

DATELINE: EMERYVILLE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Construction is to begin later this month on the second phase of what its developers call a new model for Main Street. 
 It is Bay Street Emeryville, a street densely packed with shops that are topped with housing, set in an area of heavy industry. 
 The $400 million project is eventually to contain 400,000 square feet of retail space, a 16-screen movie theater complex, a hotel and 326 housing units, and is a striking example of the efforts of this small city, eight miles east of San Francisco, to redefine itself. 
 Bay Street stands at the confluence of several trends in commercial real estate. One is the growing attraction to developers of urban infill sites; another is developers' increased willingness to build on so-called brownfields -- former industrial locations with a history of chemical pollutants. A third is the growing popularity of open-air, street-style retail development, often with a housing component. 
 The project stretches three blocks, about 1,000 feet, on a narrow site with a freeway on one side and railroad tracks on the other. The shopping and residential complex takes the form of a city street that seems oddly isolated, as if the builder had lifted a street and its flanking buildings from another city with a crane and set it down in the middle of Emeryville. 
 The buildings range from four to eight stories tall. The retail section, with 65 merchants and 9 restaurants, opened in November 2002. Construction of the housing, which is to be on the upper stories, is to start early this year.
 "Bay Street is a kind of microcosm of what we are trying to do throughout the city," said Patrick O'Keefe, the city's director of economic development and housing. The project, he said, exemplifies Emeryville's transition from industry to housing, shopping and entertainment.
 Bay Street is visibly a work in progress. The retail part, which defines the basic form of the street, is largely finished and occupied. Above the stores are gaps where parking garages for the housing units are to be built; several floors of housing will be built above the garages. The gaps give the buildings the appearance of chests of drawers with several top drawers missing. 
 The city has zoned the residential portions of the buildings, starting about 30 feet above street level and continuing upward, as separate parcels belonging to the home builder. 
 The master developer of Bay Street is Madison Marquette, a unit of the Capital Guidance Corporation of Washington, while the residential part is to be built by MacFarlane Partners of San Francisco. Madison Marquette has not yet selected a hotel developer. 
 The primary financing for Bay Street comes from California Urban Investment Partners, a joint venture with MacFarlane Partners, and from the California Public Employees' Retirement System, one of the nation's largest public pension funds. 
 The recent history of Emeryville is not dissimilar to that of many heavily industrial cities that have found themselves with ever fewer jobs and a disappearing tax base. By 1980, "40 percent of the city was undeveloped or vacant or blighted," according to John Flores, the city manager.
 At that time, the departure of many businesses had left Emeryville with a dwindling tax base, and the city was nearly bankrupt, he said.
 In the mid-1980's, city officials began rezoning the once all-industrial city to a variety of new purposes, especially housing, which had been neglected during the city's heyday as an industrial hub. Until the 1970's, only about 2,000 people lived in Emeryville, although its daytime population soared to 25,000. The number of permanent residents has since risen to more than 7,000. 
 The original idea for Bay Street was conceived in the early 1980's, according to Mr. O'Keefe. The goal was to bring in a new mix of businesses, make the city more attractive and generate new tax revenues. 
 Research indicated that Emeryville and the surrounding area, including Berkeley, were "under-stored," according to Mr. O'Keefe. Emeryville had few shops in the 1980's, and a strong antidevelopment sentiment in Berkeley had blocked the development of many proposed shopping centers and "big box" retailers. Emeryville's location near three major freeways was a selling point to prospective merchants.
 An open-air design in the style of a traditional Main Street would be "a better-quality project both for the retailers and for the community" than a conventional enclosed mall, Mr. O'Keefe said, and would be "closer to the New Urbanism and smart growth ideas that were starting to emerge in the 1990's." 
 New Urbanism and smart growth are planning doctrines that encourage mixed-use neighborhoods where the basic components of city life, like schools, shopping and transit stops, are all within walking distance of housing. 
 Perhaps the strongest demonstration of the city's desire to promote the project was its investment of $36 million even before it had a signed agreement with a developer. The city assembled the 20-acre site from five properties, using eminent domain in several cases, at a cost of $25.5 million. The city spent $11 million more to remove soil contaminated with traces of arsenic, lead and 45 other toxic substances, according to Mr. O'Keefe. 
 He acknowledged that the city took a financial risk by investing so heavily in a construction site without a developer in place. 
 "Frankly," he said, "we could not advance the retail concept any further without getting control of the site and clearing it." 
 In the 1980's, most developers shunned abandoned industrial sites, but investors and their lenders have been emboldened to take a second look at such sites because of changes in environmental law in the mid-1990's and increased protection from legal complications.
 Liability insurance is increasingly available to developers who clean up industrial sites, and local governments have increasingly offered guarantees to shield developers against future lawsuits. 
 Victor B. MacFarlane, chief executive of MacFarlane Partners, appeared to take the contamination in stride. For developers like MacFarlane that specialize in urban redevelopment, "it's rare that you will find a site that isn't contaminated," he said. 
 To make itself more accessible to commuters, Emeryville spent $30 million in the early 1990's to cut major thoroughfares through the city, which until then had only a patchwork of narrow roads. 
 The city also established a free shuttle service to carry daytime employees to and from the Bay Area Rapid Transit station a few miles outside the city in neighboring Oakland.
 Wareham Development of San Rafael, Calif., built a passenger rail station for Amtrak in Emeryville on land it leased to the city, providing a connection to much of the east Bay Area.
 The industrial flavor of Bay Street's architecture, intended to complement the existing landscape, is the work of Jerde Partnership International and the Charles Group International, both of Los Angeles, with David L. Hoffman, a San Francisco architect. The housing was designed by SB Architects, also of San Francisco. 
 P. Eric Hohmann, vice president for acquisitions and development at Madison Marquette, said that Bay Street represented the newest thinking in the way shopping should fit in to city life. 
 "This is the antimall," he said, adding, "We would like to think that Bay Street is currently the next thing in the evolution of the shopping center." 
 While retail shops are transitory and ever changing, Mr. Hohmann said, Bay Street itself will be a permanent part of the city.
 Over time, he said, "ownership of the project will change, the skins of the building will change, the retailers will change from what we have created." 
 What will remain, he said, are the fundamental form of the street and the social interactions that it supports. "I think we have created some good bones for the future," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rainwater collects in what will eventually be balconies on housing units to be built atop shops on Bay Street in Emeryville, Calif. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting Emeryville. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (79%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); BROWNFIELD SITES (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (61%); PENSION FUNDS (60%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%); MOVIE THEATERS (56%) 

ORGANIZATION: Madison Marquette; Macfarlane Partners

PERSON: Morris Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Emeryville (Calif) ; Emeryville (Calif) 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



135 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
S.& P. 500 Index Reaches Its Highest Level Since 2002

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose for the sixth trading day in seven yesterday, reaching a level not seen in more than 20 months.
 Sun Microsystems led the gain after Merrill Lynch increased its fourth-quarter revenue estimate for the company. J.P. Morgan Chase advanced as the Prudential Equity Group said the company should exceed earnings estimates in 2004. 
 The S.&P. 500 increased and the Dow Jones industrial average pared losses even after reports on factory orders and service industries showed signs that the economy might not be growing as fast as some expect.
 "The equity market will continue to be driven by the strength of the economy and growth in earnings," said Michael Strauss, who helps manage $29 billion as chief economist at Commonfund in Wilton, Conn. "With the turn for earnings and the turn in the economy, there are a lot of factors that are stimulating things." 
 The S.&P. 500 rose 1.45 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,123.67, the highest since April 19, 2002. Computer-related companies contributed the most to the gain among the benchmark's 10 industry groups. The Nasdaq composite index, which obtains 42 percent of its value from technology companies, added 10.01 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,057.37.
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 5.41 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,538.66. Caterpillar was the biggest contributor to the decline.
 Almost seven stocks rose for every six that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.5 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 15 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 Sun Microsystems, whose servers run corporate networks and Web sites, added 33 cents, to $5.03. A Merrill Lynch analyst, Steven M. Milunovich, increased his fourth-quarter revenue forecast to $2.85 billion from $2.74 billion. "Our checks, though not complete, suggest Sun experienced a strong quarter close," he wrote in a note to clients.
 Other computer-related companies advanced. Cisco Systems, the world's largest maker of equipment to link computers, added 29 cents, to $25.06. EMC, the No.3 maker of data-storage computers, rose 39 cents, to $13.91 and Applied Materials, the largest maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, advanced 40 cents, to $23.92.
 J.P. Morgan rose 92 cents, to $37.47. Earnings should exceed the average analyst estimate in 2004, said Michael Mayo of Prudential Equity. He cited gains in private equity, stock underwriting and trading, asset management and securities processing. Mr. Mayo raised his rating to overweight from neutral weight.
 Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of construction equipment, had the biggest drop in the Dow, losing $1.50, or 1.8 percent, to $83.40.
 "Last quarter was great and the quarter before that was great," said Michael Obuchowski, a principal of Altair Investments in New York. "Can you really maintain that growth rate? Probably not."
 The dollar continued its slide against the euro, falling for the eighth trading day in nine after the finance minister of Belgium, Didier Reynders, said the euro's rise "is not a problem."
 "We can have a strong euro with a strong economy," Mr. Reynders said in an interview after a news conference in Brussels. The United States currency pared its decline after Reuters reported South Africa's central bank bought dollars. Earlier, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said it had bought dollars, and traders said the Bank of Japan bought the currency as well. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2767 from $1.2669 on Monday.
 Treasuries surged in New York after an index measuring the service industry unexpectedly fell, raising speculation the Federal Reserve can refrain from raising its target interest rate until the second half of the year.
 The benchmark 10-year note had its biggest gain in a month. The report from the Institute for Supply Management came as Treasuries were already rising on speculation that the central banks would buy United States debt with the proceeds from their currency sales.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note climbed 28/32 to 99 27/32. 
 The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 4.27 percent from 4.38 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.934
High Rate: 0.850
Coupon Yield: 0.863
Low Rate: 0.800
Median Rate: 0.845
Total applied for: $34,693,345
Accepted: $12,757,370
Noncompetitive: $33,732

The four-week bills mature Feb. 5, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks yields from yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



136 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Vent Their Anger at Hearing on Rent Increases 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
One elderly tenant, a World War II veteran, testified that he feared he would not be able to absorb the biggest proposed increase on rent-controlled apartments in a decade. Another, who once worked as a lawyer for the very state agency that adjusts the rents, warned that the proposed increase -- of roughly 15 percent over two years -- would hurt "the most vulnerable of all tenants."
 But perhaps no one stirred as much emotion yesterday at a public hearing in Lower Manhattan as Paula Glatzer, a retired magazine editor, who said that she was befuddled by how the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal had computed the increases. At one point, she got into an exasperated exchange with David B. Cabrera, an assistant commissioner of the state agency. 
 "Are you refusing to tell us what your role is?" she asked, generating a cacophony of sarcastic comments from the audience, directed at a stoic Mr. Cabrera. "You're talking to me like I'm in an insane asylum!"
Rent hearings typically generate spirited debate, but yesterday's was particularly passionate. The proposed increases would affect about 36,000 of New York City's roughly 60,000 rent-controlled apartments, a subsector of real estate that is known for having some of the lowest rents in New York City.
State officials say the increases are justified because of a surge in costs to landlords, including real estate taxes and insurance.
But if the tenants' anger was palpable, so, too, was the sense that everyone attending the all-day hearing was essentially powerless to do much to change anything. Under state law, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal must calculate proposed increases every other year, hold a public hearing and, barring any egregious mathematical errors, approve the increases.
Most tenants and landlords anticipate that it will be only a matter of weeks before the state allows landlords to charge the maximum increase permitted by law for the next two years, probably retroactive to Jan. 1. That means more people will face a 7.5 percent increase in each of the next two years than at any time since the late 1980's or early 1990's, state officials and tenant groups say.
Rent control, the original form of tenant protection, dates back to the 1940's, and is different from the much bigger system of rent stabilization, which applies to one million rental apartments in New York City. Generally, rent control applies to apartments in buildings constructed before 1947 in which tenants have lived continuously since 1971.
Whenever a rent-controlled tenant vacates an apartment, that apartment enters the rent-stabilization system. Between 1975 and 2002, the number of rent-controlled apartments dropped by 91 percent, to roughly 60,000 from 642,000.
But if rent control is a dying system, it is one that has spawned its share of idiosyncratic tales, some even true, about people paying a couple of hundred dollars for a commodious space on Park Avenue, or those who would rather give up spouses than apartments.
The reality is far more complex. The median monthly cost of rent-controlled apartments is $500. The median annual income of the tenants is slightly above $20,000. Roughly two-thirds of those tenants are over 62 and living on fixed incomes.
Any increases are applied not uniformly, as they are for rent-stabilized apartments, but rather according to a complicated formula based on the "maximum base rent" for each apartment.
State housing officials said that their research this year concluded that the maximum base rent should be adjusted by 17.2 percent because of higher real estate taxes, water and sewer rates and energy costs -- the biggest adjustment since 1976 but one that is rendered moot because of a 7.5 percent annual cap.
To landlord representatives who spoke at yesterday's hearing, the proposed increase, while insufficient, was enough of a step in the right direction to help landlords keep pace.
"The historically low rents of controlled apartments, and the limitations on the permitted annual increase, make this proposal a bargain for tenants and a hardship for owners," said Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, a landlord group.
But to the tenants who showed up, any increase would be almost too much to bear. It was also frustrating, they noted, that only a legislative act by Albany could change the formulas or the laws.
"I live in fear with these increases," said Patricia McGovern, who pays $1,069 for a rent-controlled apartment in Tudor City in Manhattan. "They're just out of control. Why should I worry at this point of my life where I have to live, and how much I have to pay?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Worried tenants attended a public hearing yesterday on a proposed rent increase of 7.5 percent this year, 7.5 percent next year, and a 2.5 percent fuel cost adjustment for New York City's rent-controlled apartments. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); ELDER LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); LAWYERS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



137 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
A Strict Colonel Tom Is What's Necessary

BYLINE:  By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
It was 1995 and Tom Coughlin was busy drawing a line in the dirt outside the locker room of his Jacksonville Jaguars. Inside, players awaited the first day of practice in franchise history.
 When the players emerged, they approached Coughlin's handiwork. It was, the coach said, the Concentration Line. 
 On one side was the players' quarters, where they could laugh and joke, discuss something besides football, wear sunglasses or jewelry, even cross their legs while sitting in a chair.
On the other side of the line, they were in Coughlin's world, a place where they did none of those things without reprisal.
In time, some in that locker room called the coach Colonel Tom. For the first five years, when the Jaguars won 49 games and appeared in two conference championship games, it was meant to describe a prosperous taskmaster. During the next three losing seasons, it was meant to depict a medieval autocrat.
The fascinating thing about the Giants' search for Jim Fassel's successor is that there was always one leading candidate and no amount of reputation-bashing could dissuade the Giants from their man.
But the Giants were smitten by more than Coughlin's disciplinarian pedigree, even if a crack of the whip fits a team coming off eight lifeless, season-ending losses. Historically, Coughlin has always been the Giants' kind of coach, something the team recognized as early as the late 1980's, when he was one of their assistant coaches.
In many ways, what the Giants appear to see in Coughlin is the prodigal son of his mentor, Bill Parcells, who may not have had a no sunglasses rule but who has surely escorted the no-nonsense approach of his coaching idol, Vince Lombardi, into another century of football.
Today, there may be two or three times as many N.F.L. teams chasing the ex-coach Fassel as there were N.F.L. teams chasing the new coach Coughlin, but the Giants could not care less. Coughlin will bring Giants fans what they expect, a bruising, physically imposing team. There will most likely be other changes, too. If Tiki Barber keeps fumbling, he will be doing his radio shows and television commercials with a football duct-taped to his arm.
It has been at least 10 years since Coughlin has occupied a place in the back of the minds of the Giants' brain trust. He shocked them when he turned down their offer to be head coach in 1993, choosing to remain at Boston College. But they noticed when he led his B.C. teams to bowl games and upsets of Notre Dame. Later, they watched with envy as his tenderfoot Jaguars outperformed the storied Giants, with Coughlin trading for quarterback Mark Brunell in the same season the Giants settled on Dave Brown as their quarterback of the future.
Coughlin eventually wore out his welcome in Jacksonville largely because of his personnel and salary-cap missteps, for which he had allies in disaster. But it was a general apathy among fans and players, spurred by too much Jaguars losing, that led to Coughlin's dismissal -- the same conditions that led Fassel's firing.
The Giants, it is now clear, never let any of this stick to Coughlin.
Not that the Giants brass did not do its homework on the charges that overbearing Colonel Tom ruined a good thing in Florida. But the Giants came away more certain that it was the losing that spawned any bad feelings, not the other way around. According to several Giants officials familiar with the Coughlin courtship, Coughlin did tell the Giants' executive vice president, John Mara, and General Manager Ernie Accorsi that he had learned from mistakes in his tenure in Jacksonville and had refined some of his coaching beliefs and methods.
The Giants leadership knows that an unemployed coach might say anything -- Dan Reeves promised not to meddle with the front office in 1993, then was fired in 1996 for meddling -- but unlike Reeves, the Giants have a track record by which to judge Coughlin.
When Coughlin came to coach Parcells's wide receivers in 1988, they were a wild, unruly lot. The Giants were a running team and the receivers suffered from the inattention, lacking both self-esteem and good work habits. Coughlin showed up and drew another Concentration Line. Meetings began on time, with penalties for the tardy.
Feet went flat on the floor. There were quizzes on that week's new pass routes. And most of all, Coughlin announced that since the Giants were essentially a running team, the receivers were going to start blocking on running plays.
Imagine that.
A corps of determined receivers blocking on the corners is never going to be the primary reason for an improved ground attack, but by the time Coughlin left in 1991, the team's rushing totals had jumped 32 percent and the Giants were Super Bowl champs.
One of Coughlin's receivers, Mark Ingram, caught a pivotal second-half pass in that Super Bowl, making a dogged, gritty push up the field, breaking four tackles to barely pick up a first down that led to the Giants second touchdown in the 20-19 victory over the Buffalo Bills. It was the kind of play you do not soon forget, in the way that Giants ownership and management never forgot Tom Coughlin.
That Super Bowl game was Coughlin's last on a Giants sideline, a hiatus of 13 years. Figuratively, if not actually in the dirt, the Concentration Line will be drawn once again, awaiting a new Giants team at the start of its first practice.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Coughlin's ties go back to his time as an assistant to Bill Parcells, left, on a team that won aSuper Bowl. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



138 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Low-Fare Airlines Decide Frills Maybe Aren't So Bad After All 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Low-fare airlines have always promised and delivered one thing: cheap seats.
 No more. With low-cost airlines invading established rivals' turf and facing new competitors, even what were once known as no-frills carriers are adding amenities -- including some that even full-fare airlines do not offer. 
 JetBlue will step up the battle today when it announces that it will add XM satellite radio, Fox TV programs and a library of 20th Century Fox movies to its multichannel seatback in-flight entertainment system. 
 Separately, Song, a low-cost spinoff of Delta Air Lines that introduced its own radio-TV-movie terminals at each seat in November, began selling sweets from Dylan's Candy Bar, a trendy Manhattan shop, on its flights last month and will issue Kate Spade-designed uniforms to its flight attendants soon.
 Not to be outdone, United Airlines is promising that its low-fare carrier, Ted, will have its own multichannel entertainment system, called Ted TV, when it begins flying next month. United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, has promised that Ted will have its own brand of beer and colorful headsets. The airline will begin with service from Denver to the West Coast and Florida.
 Southwest Airlines, the biggest low-fare airline, has steadfastly held out against such embellishments, although a spokesman said it is studying whether to offer in-flight entertainment. The main criteria will be cost, he said. Unlike the newer carriers, which began or will start service with the systems already installed, Southwest, founded a quarter-century ago, would have to retrofit its Boeing 737's.
 E. Han Kim, a professor of finance at the University of Michigan, likens the low-fare airlines' efforts to those of Japanese auto companies, which began by selling bargain cars and then expanded their lineups -- and increased their sales -- with plusher models aimed at American customers' tastes.
 "You go into the market with whatever advantage you have, in terms of low fares, but gradually, they want to become bigger players," Professor Kim said. "That's a natural progression in any business."
 Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y., said not all the low-fare players could afford to follow the lead of JetBlue, Song and Ted. As low-fare business grows, he said, the category could split into plusher cheap airlines and those that remain spartan. That could make it more difficult for traditional airlines to compete against low-fare carriers, he said, because they could not tell if fares or frills were the main selling point.
 But Roland T. Rust, chairman of the marketing department at the University of Maryland's business school, warned that low-fare airlines may wind up hurting themselves by aiming for passengers with too many extras.
 "It's a trap," he said. "They are merging into the part of the market where you can't make any money." By going upscale, he added, low-fare airlines risked opening themselves to being undercut by a new wave of bare-boned competitors.
 The only way carriers can remain profitable and offer frills would be to design the amenities into their cost base upfront, as JetBlue did. Professor Rust said that Southwest's willingness to consider adding the systems was "really shocking."
 JetBlue's chief executive, David G. Neeleman, is pressing his airline's advantage. JetBlue, which already offered 24 channels on seat-back video systems, including DirectTV programming, will have 100 channels by the end of the year, he said, including popular Fox programs like "The Simpsons."
 Song's system, which the airline will be installing on its jets through May, includes 24 channels of EchoStar's Dish satellite television programming, 24 audio channels and a video game that will let passengers play against one another without leaving their seats.
 While such technology is new, efforts to attract budget-minded travelers with something more than cheap tickets is not.
 In 1971, for example, Pacific Southwest Airlines played the sex appeal card, dressing its flight attendants in pink and red minidresses with heart-shaped hats and knee-high red boots.
 Within two years of the change in couture, the airline's business increased by one million passengers, to six million a year. USAir, a forerunner of US Airways, bought Pacific Southwest in 1987. 
 The latest efforts to attract passengers to low-fare airlines come as the cheaper carriers are already growing robustly. In 2003, low-fare airlines collectively captured about a quarter of customers flying within the United States.
 JetBlue, in fact, has become the largest carrier operating out of Kennedy Airport in New York, eclipsing American last year. It handled 6.83 million passengers in the 12 months to Oct. 30, compared with 6.74 million for American, according to Aviation Daily, a trade publication.
 Mr. Neeleman said the cost of JetBlue's entertainment system was minimal, though he declined to be specific. He did say that such upgrades are preferable to adding other amenities, like food, which he vows never to offer on JetBlue. He said that providing a "soggy sandwich" to each passenger would cost the airline $20 million a year.
 Indeed, despite the more extensive range of entertainment, JetBlue, which began flying in 2000, will not upgrade its headsets, which Mr. Neeleman said cost the airline about 20 cents each. Passengers looking for better audio quality should bring their own equipment, he said.
 Professor Kim said the airline had its priorities in order. "It's not like the days when the airlines offered fancy meals and cushy treatment," he said. The entertainment system upgrade is "an investment that will be spread over many, many passengers," he added. "It's in line with JetBlue's philosophy of trying to satisfy the most passengers at the least expensive way to them."
 Southwest said it is still undecided on the frills fad because it wanted to stick with its traditional thriftiness.
 "We're looking at the systems but we're by no means saying we're going to do it," the airline's spokesman, Ed Stewart, said. Should the entertainment systems prove too expensive, he said, Southwest plans to stick with its traditional inflight entertainment -- jokes told by its crew.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Passengers on JetBlue, left, will soon be able to choose satellite radio, Fox TV programs and movies as in-flight entertainment. Song, a unit of Delta, is selling treats from Dylan's Candy Bar. Its flight attendants will soon be wearing uniforms, top, designed by Kate Spade. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (99%); AIR FARES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (71%); TRENDS (71%); BEER & ALE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); BOEING CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (JBLU) 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



139 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: INDIANS IN DEAL WITH PAKISTANIS FOR PEACE TALKS 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Two years after nearly going to war, India and Pakistan announced Tuesday that they had agreed to restart formal peace talks in February, an extraordinary turn in relations between two countries -- and now nuclear powers -- that have been at odds for more than half a century.
 A joint press statement released by the two countries' foreign ministers said they had agreed to a "composite dialogue" on all issues between them, including the disputed, and divided, territory of Kashmir. 
 Pakistan, which has backed an Islamic separatist insurgency against India in Kashmir, said it would not permit Pakistani territory to be used to support terrorism, its first such direct assurance to India. 
Since they were carved out of the British Empire in 1947, Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan have gone to war three times. Both countries have nuclear arsenals, making their continuing tension perhaps the world's most perilously volatile relationship. 
The agreement on the joint statement -- which was largely unexpected when a regional summit meeting started here last weekend -- came after an hour-long meeting between Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India and Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, on Monday, and other less publicized negotiations by both sides. It was sealed by a telephone call from Mr. Vajpayee to General Musharraf Tuesday morning. 
"History has been made," General Musharraf said in a press conference at the presidential palace after the agreement was announced. "We never reached in the past where we have reached now."
In the six simple paragraphs released Tuesday, the two leaders managed to stitch a mutual satisfaction that had eluded them for years.
For each leader, the statement represented a culmination of processes unleashed by both personal vision and geopolitical pressure. Last April, Mr. Vajpayee, 79, who has long made clear that he would like peace with Pakistan to be his legacy, offered India's neighbor a "hand of friendship" after almost two years of estrangement, saying he wanted to make one last attempt at peace. 
General Musharraf pledged to crack down on militants whom Pakistan has long supported and who have been blamed for at least one of the two assassination attempts that nearly killed him last month. His assurance appears to complete the U-turn he made after Sept. 11, 2001, when he abandoned Pakistan's support for the Taliban government in Afghanistan and instead pledged it to the American hunt for Al Qaeda. 
In turn, Pakistan won the dialogue it has long sought on Kashmir, the former princely state that acceded to mostly Hindu India at the time of the 1947 partition. Pakistan has insisted for more than a half-century on the right of self-determination for the mostly Muslim Kashmiris, or at least discussion of their status.
India, which controls two-thirds of Kashmir, having lost the rest to Pakistan in a war after the partition, has resisted any such negotiations. It has argued that Kashmir is an integral part of India, and, as its only Muslim-majority state, proof of its secular identity. 
India, for its part, got the first public written commitment from General Musharraf that he would not allow terrorists -- a reference to the anti-Indian insurgents Pakistan has termed freedom fighters -- to operate from Pakistani soil. 
"Prime Minister Vajpayee said that in order to take forward and sustain the dialogue process, violence, hostility, and terrorism must be prevented," the statement said. "President Musharraf reassured Prime Minister Vajpayee that he will not permit any territory under Pakistan's control to be used to support terrorism in any manner." 
India's foreign minister, Yashwant Sinha, said the assurance combined with a "certain situation on the ground" -- a reduction in infiltration into Indian-controlled Kashmir and militant activity there -- gave India the confidence to proceed. 
"There would be no joint press statement if the satisfaction was not there," Mr. Sinha said. 
The two nations had nearly gone to war after India said that Pakistan was responsible for an attack in December 2001 on Parliament in New Delhi. 
In the nine months since Mr. Vajpayee's speech, the two sides have engaged in a series of confidence-building measures intended to improve relations, including the restoration of diplomatic and transport links and a cease-fire along the front line that divides Kashmir.
General Musharraf had tried to compartmentalize Pakistan's support for Islamic militancy in Kashmir, half-heartedly cracking down on Kashmiri groups, and failing to end the infiltration of insurgents from Pakistan into India. 
With the agreement, he has implicitly agreed to abandon the waging of a proxy war in Kashmir, although only time will show whether he has both the will and power to fulfill that pledge. At his news conference, he also vowed that Pakistan would adopt more measures to crack down further on religious extremism in Pakistan. 
"Any extremism, any terrorism from here will not be allowed," he said, adding later, "We have to take to task any extremist here of whatever shape and color -- and we'll take them to task." 
He credited Mr. Vajpayee's "vision" and "statesmanship" for the agreement, and the flexibility both sides had shown in negotiations. Asked whether friendship with India -- the nemesis on which generations of Pakistanis, and more importantly the Pakistani Army, have been raised -- was part of his "strategic vision," General Musharraf looked taken aback. 
"Of course," replied the general, whom India blamed for orchestrating an incursion into its part of Kashmir five years ago. 
He elaborated by saying that South Asia, home to one fifth of the world's people and half its poor, was the only region of the world where governments were not cooperating for the benefit of their people. 
"It is the India-Pakistan relationship that is acting as an obstacle" to the region's uplift, he said. 
At a summit meeting of seven regional leaders, including those of India and Pakistan, that ended Tuesday, it was clear that the global economic environment was forcing change on South Asia. The seven leaders spoke of their concern about how to cope with new trade arrangements, and the need to resolve differences to enable formation of a regional trade bloc. 
Pakistan agreed to join a regional free trade agreement the leaders signed Tuesday, which would lower tariffs over 10 years. Previously, Pakistan had resisted regional economic cooperation until its dispute with India was resolved. 
General Musharraf faces other pressures as well. His government has been grappling with a series of damaging disclosures on his country's role in the spread of nuclear technology, and the Tuesday agreement, sure to generate international goodwill, may provide a welcome distraction. 
General Musharraf also has earned the enmity of Islamic extremists angered by his support for the American war on terrorism and perhaps as well by his gradually growing flexibility on Kashmir. A suicide bomber identified in one of the assassination attempts last month was linked to a Kashmiri militant group, Jaish-e-Mohammad. The sophistication of the second attempt has prompted concern that Al Qaeda could be involved. 
The attacks suggested that General Musharraf could now be forced to face up to the connections between Kashmiri militant groups and the terrorists he has vowed to uproot. 
While he said Tuesday that the agreement was a victory for moderates in both India and Pakistan, General Musharraf acknowledged thathe would face "fallout" from extremists wedded to separating Kashmir from India. Many of those extremists were trained or supported by Pakistan's intelligence services.
General Musharraf appeared unconcerned about his personal safety. "I have nine lives -- I haven't consumed them all," he said. 
The language used Tuesday was a far cry from the hostile rhetoric that preceded, and followed, their last meeting, at Agra in 2001. 
"Please don't look at this document as a victory for one side or the other," Brajesh Mishra, the Indian national security adviser, said in a theme echoed repeatedly Tuesday. "It is a win-win situation." 
The statement did not refer to the wishes of the Kashmiri people, weary after 15 years of conflict between two hostile giants. Instead, it said that "the two leaders are confident that the resumption of the composite dialogue will lead to a peaceful settlement of all bilateral issues, including Jammu and Kashmir, to the satisfaction of both sides."
But Umar Farooq, a Kashmiri leader in Srinagar, in Indian-controlled Kashmir, said the process was now "moving in the right direction," and at the appropriate gradual pace.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Mir Zafarullah Jamali of Pakistan, left, and Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A1); Indian soldiers, left, and their Pakistani counterparts, took part in a ceremony at the border crossing point at Wagah last month. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A10) Map of India highlighting Jammu and Kashmir: The state of Jammu and Kashmir has been divided since 1947. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); TERRORISM (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); RELIGION (70%); ASSASSINATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (96%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (94%) INDIA (99%); ASIA (96%); PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



140 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; 
Edwards Promises a Positive Vision and to Change the 'Two Americas'

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: BOONE, Iowa, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards cannot sit still.
 He paces, he wheels, walks up, walks back. He leans in to listeners to make a point, fixing a hard gaze. His hands reach out, curling into fists. His face twists as he talks of President Bush. 
 "You know, he lives this sheltered life, where he goes to events and they're ticketed," Mr. Edwards said in South Carolina the other day. "Everybody has to be approved first to get in. He needs to talk to people who weren't approved." 
 He added: "I'm here to tell you he is completely out of touch with what is happening here in real America. Well, let me say this in the simplest possible terms: This is not only where I come from, this is what I care about."
 For Mr. Edwards, one of nine Democrats seeking the party's nomination for president, his stump speech is very personal, tinged with anger about the power of the privileged and, lately, leavened with optimism. "You and I can change America," he said at a library gathering here on Monday. 
 Much of his speech is essentially about class division, a discussion spiced with the personal reflection of someone who grew up in a small mill town in rural North Carolina and became a multimillionaire trial lawyer. Change is needed, Mr. Edwards says in his standard remarks, because of the "two Americas" he sees, one for the wealthy and connected and the other "for everybody else." And now as the Iowa caucuses approach, Mr. Edwards has boiled down his themes into what his campaign calls a "closing argument." 
 "I'm past all the fluff," Mr. Edwards said here. "I want to be direct with you."
 He more frankly takes on the question of his relative inexperience --that he is in his first term as a senator and never held public office before it -- and perceptions that he looks too young. He says clearly at nearly ever stop, often to laughter, "I am 50 years old!"
 Without naming his rivals, he suggests their long resumes and years in politics handicap them.
 Voters say, " 'You haven't been in politics all your life, you haven't even been in Washington that long, how in the world are you going to change this country?' " Mr. Edwards said here. "Here's my question to you: You think people who have been in politics all their lives, have been in Washington for decades, you think they're going to change America?"
 Mr. Edwards portrays doubts about him as the work of cynics and of the privileged whom he is campaigning against.
 He says that when he was young, the son of a mill worker, the doubters said of him: "You really think you're going to college? You're going to be a lawyer? How in the world is that ever going to happen?"
"Then, when I walked into courtrooms and these armies of these big corporate lawyers, much older and more experienced than me, they would be in there and they'd say, 'What's that young fellow doing in here? What? Does he think he's going to take us on?' And over and over and over I won those fights."
 "How many times in your life has somebody said something like that to you? Think about that for a minute."
 Mr. Edwards cites his 20 years as a personal injury lawyer suing corporate America as proof he is tough enough to challenge Mr. Bush, seeking to answer doubts among some voters. "We need somebody who has been fighting these fights and winning these fights their whole lives," Mr. Edwards said.
 He still gets his most enthusiastic cheers for his jabs at Mr. Bush, though he has toned them down in recent days.
 People reliably applaud when he says it is time "to put an end to the Bush presidency."
 Mr. Bush, in name or inference, figures largely in his speech as the person most responsible for Mr. Edwards's two Americas. Mr. Bush is a symbol -- of the privileged, the wealthy, of corporate America, of lobbyists and the upper crust and of ignoring the plight of people struggling from paycheck to paycheck. 
 "In the America you and I build together we will no longer have two tax systems, the one in George Bush's America where wealthy people and corporations pay lower taxes or no taxes and another for everybody else, who end up paying more," Mr. Edwards said Monday.
 Mr. Edwards speaks to the America "living from paycheck to paycheck, having to borrow money, going into debt, having trouble paying their bills and in many cases one medical emergency, one layoff, from going into bankruptcy."
 This is the rationale Mr. Edwards gives for his candidacy -- that he will speak for the people who have been left behind.
 Lately, he has also been promising a positive vision. He casts himself in the mold of Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy, admiring their handling of hard times with a sunny outlook.
 Mr. Edwards does not mention him, but this is aimed at Howard Dean, the leader in the Democratic polls in the early primary states who has risen through his sharp opposition to the Iraq war and the Washington establishment. And Mr. Edwards also intends it to distinguish himself from the other Democrats who are sharply on the attack against one another.
 "Ask yourself what kind of person, what kind of character and integrity are you looking for?" Mr. Edwards said last week in Newton, Iowa. "Are you in fact looking for somebody who can say the nastiest thing about the other candidate or are you looking for someone who can lift this country up and move it forward, make us proud to be Americans again?"
 He almost never fails to talk about education and health care again, the haves getting the best at the expense of the have-nots -- but spends a good part of his just under 20-minute speech on what he sees as a middle class buckling under economic strife, particularly the loss of jobs and an inability to save for a home or the future. "We have millions of families across this country who desperately want to buy a home," Mr. Edwards said. "But every dollar they make goes to pay the bills. Where in the world are they going to come up with the down payment? They can't. So we ought to give them a credit that allows them to make the down payment so they can actually buy a house." 
One issue that has been dropped from his speech lately is direct comment on the war in Iraq. He makes casual references to it these days, if at all, waiting until voters ask him his position, which may cause him trouble with the more liberal primary voters.
 Mr. Edwards voted for the war last year in a Congressional resolution but against the $87 billion appropriation in the fall to finance rebuilding and some military operations.
 He also no longer regularly rebukes Attorney General John Ashcroft, even though it got him some of his biggest applause. To rousing cheers he would accuse Mr. Ashcroft of "taking away our rights, taking away our liberties, taking away our freedoms" for his handing of the antiterrorism legislation that gives the federal government more powers to search private records. 
 The problem is that Mr. Edwards voted for the antiterrorism legislation and often found himself explaining that vote to confused listeners. (He believes some provisions, like information sharing among federal agencies, is good, but has called for amendments to secure Americans' private records.)
 Mr. Edwards also regularly talks about civil rights, relating his experience as a young boy with a teacher who refused to teach in his school because it was about to be integrated.
 "We are not going to have opportunity divided by race," he said on Monday.
 In the end, his speech is a rallying cry, almost a plea to give him a chance.
"You have got to give me a shot at George W. Bush," Mr. Edwards said. "That's what I need from you."

This is the first in a series of articles looking at the basic campaign speeches of the presidential candidates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards took his campaign to the Petersen Town Hall at the Waterloo Center for the Arts in Waterloo, Iowa, on Monday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (51%); LAWYERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



141 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; 
Excerpts From a Speech by Senator Edwards

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from a campaign speech by Senator John Edwards of North Carolina in Kingstree, S.C., on Dec. 27, as recorded by The New York Times:
 We lost all these jobs. We got people hurting and struggling. 
 Let me just share with you a few of my ideas today. First, we need to not just have free trade in America but fair trade that allows our workers to compete so we don't continue to see the flow of jobs going oversees. We need to shut down these loopholes in our tax code that give American companies a tax write-off for leaving and taking jobs with them. This is absolutely insane.
So here's what I want to do as your president. I want to say, first, if you're starting a business and you're willing to come to a place like this where unemployment is high, we'll give you the venture capital, the seed money to get started, so long as you have good benefits, so long as the pay is good pay. 
We have had a sea change in this country in the last 20 years. Now you think about this. Twenty years ago most working families, most middle-class families in America were doing pretty well. They were saving money, 15 percent of their income. They had a nest egg set aside. They had some level of financial security. If something went wrong, they were ready for it.
That's all changed. Now today most middle-class families are spending every dime that they make. They're not saving anything. Instead they are going into debt. Their credit cards are maxed out. Both spouses are working. If one thing goes wrong, they go off the edge. If there's a medical problem, a layoff, a financial problem, whatever it is, if there is one problem, they go over the edge. So the question is, what are we going to do for these families, what are we going to do to strengthen working families so they once again feel good about themselves, feel good about their future and what they're capable of? 
We ought to help them to be able to invest. George Bush is all about creating wealth for people who already have wealth. How about if we create some wealth for people who need some financial security, middle-class working families, the poor. These are the families that need help. We ought to help people buy a home. We have millions of families across this country who desperately want to buy a home, but every dollar they make goes to pay the bills. So where in the world are they going to come up with the down payment? They can't. So we ought to give them a credit that allows them to make the down payment so they can actually buy a house. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FAMILY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); LAYOFFS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



142 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Promises Better Times for California 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 6 

 BODY:
Declaring California an "empire of hope and aspiration," Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Tuesday promised to lead the state to better economic times but warned the road to recovery would be difficult.
 "I remain a great believer in the future of this state," Mr. Schwarzenegger said in his first state of the state address. "I did not seek this job to cut, but to build. I did not seek this job to preside over the decline of a dream but to renew it." 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican who was elected governor in the October recall election, put forth a broad and aggressive agenda for his first full year in office that included cuts in government spending, the elimination of government departments and changes in the state's workers compensation insurance.
Though the speech did not delve into many details of the proposals, Mr. Schwarzenegger reiterated a popular campaign promise not to raise taxes. He also said he would appoint a negotiator to seek additional state revenues from Indian gaming operations, another hot topic during the recall election of Gov. Gray Davis.
"You could compare that with the best of Ronald Reagan," Ted Costa, the antitax crusader who initiated the recall effort, said on a Sacramento television panel following the speech. "I give that man a cigar."
Many Democrats also gave Mr. Schwarzenegger good reviews, but they said the real test would come on Friday, when the governor is to unveil his budget proposal for 2004 and 2005. 
Mr. Schwarzenegger touched on some budget issues in the address on Tuesday, promising, for example, to limit fee increases for college students. But administration officials said the speech was not intended as a primer for the budget.
"Tonight we heard a speech," said Assemblyman Herb Wesson, a Democrat from Los Angeles. "We didn't hear a budget. On Friday we will get the details, and on Friday we will be able to understand exactly what the governor's words meant."
Mr. Schwarzenegger appeared confident and relaxed in his address to a joint session of the State Legislature, the most significant speech of his brief political career. He invoked the memory of Ronald Reagan, another actor who became governor, and at one point in the half-hour speech said that he had "changed my mind" and decided to return to his acting career.
"Just joking," he said with a wide grin.
Later Mr. Schwarzenegger said that he loved being governor and he promised to use his Hollywood celebrity to help the state bring new businesses -- and jobs -- to California.
"I am going to be California's job czar," he said. "I am going to travel the nation and the world to find those jobs."
Bill Whalen, a research fellow at the Hoover Institution and a former speechwriter for Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, said the state of the state address would be very helpful in setting the tone of the Schwarzenegger administration, particularly with press interest so high. About 250 journalists were accredited to cover Tuesday's speech, which was broadcast live on television and radio across the state and in some other countries.
"The state of the state speech is to a governor what a strong serving game is to a good tennis player," Mr. Whalen said. "It is a chance to put the ball in play and determine the location and move his opponent."
Kevin McCarthy, the newly elected Republican leader of the Assembly from Bakersfield, described the speech as a "bold vision for California's future" and said Republicans in the Legislature would work with Mr. Schwarzenegger to help bring it about.
There had been predictions that Mr. Schwarzenegger would emphasize themes popular with his fellow Republicans, like not raising taxes and promising to cut waste in government, to help keep peace with members of his own party.
Some Republicans have grumbled in recent weeks that Mr. Schwarzenegger moved too close to the Democrats in the Legislature when he struck a deal last month on two ballot measures related to spending and borrowing. Democrats hold majorities in both the Assembly and the Senate.
Those measures, which will appear on the ballot on March 2, would impose a constitutional requirement for a balanced budget and allow the state to borrow up to $15 billion to help pay for past deficits. Mr. Schwarzenegger said Tuesday that passage of the measures would be one of his top priorities.
"The alternative is economic chaos," he said.
Mr. McCarthy and other Republicans were insistent Tuesday that the state's recovery would come about without tax increases, one of the most divisive and partisan issues during the Davis administration.
But State Senator John Burton of San Francisco, one of the most powerful Democrats in Sacramento, said the budget deficit, estimated at more than $14 billion, was too big to close with cuts alone. He said it was a mistake for Mr. Schwarzenegger to reiterate his no-tax pledge, noting that even Mr. Reagan eventually had to raise taxes.
Barbara O'Connor, director of the Institute for the Study of Politics and Media at California State University in Sacramento, also predicted that it would be difficult for Mr. Schwarzenegger to honor the no-tax pledge in the end. But she said that it was important for him to do so in this first major address.
"While the opinion leaders are more critical of specific mechanisms he will use," Ms. O'Connor said, "the average public perceives him as doing what they hired him to do. He still has a remarkable reservoir of good will with the voters who elected him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of the Venice Beach section of Los Angeles watching the state of the state address of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to a joint session of the California Legislature last night about the state's economic future. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%); RONALD REAGAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



143 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: BUSH WOULD GIVE ILLEGAL WORKERS BROAD NEW RIGHTS 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush will propose a sweeping overhaul of the nation's immigration laws on Wednesday that could give legal status to millions of undocumented workers in the United States, senior administration officials said Tuesday night.
 Under Mr. Bush's proposal, which effectively amounts to an amnesty program for illegal immigrants with jobs in the United States, an undocumented worker could apply for temporary worker status here for an unspecified number of years, with all the employee benefits, like minimum wage and due process, accorded to those legally employed. 
 Workers who are approved would be permitted to travel freely between the United States and their home countries, the officials said, and would also be permitted to apply for a green card granting permanent residency in the United States. 
Administration officials said that Mr. Bush would also propose increasing the number of green cards issued each year, which is now about 140,000, but they did not provide a specific number. The administration officials, who briefed reporters in a conference call on Tuesday night, said only that Mr. Bush would ask for a "reasonable increase."
Mr. Bush's proposal, one administration official said, would "match willing workers with willing employers" and would "promote compassion" by fixing what one called "a broken system." The officials declined to call it an amnesty program.
Under the proposal, workers in other countries could also apply for guest worker status in the United States, provided there was no American to take the job.
But the president's plans are expected to face a tough fight in Congress, where conservative Republicans have said they consider programs like the one the president is proposing nothing more than amnesty for people who have broken the law.
The president's proposals were designed to appeal to Hispanic groups, a constituency that the White House is focusing on as Mr. Bush seeks re-election this year. The proposals are expected to be embraced by President Vicente Fox of Mexico, who has been lobbying for them for the past three years.
Mr. Bush is to meet with Mr. Fox at an economic summit next week in Monterrey, Mexico, where immigration will be a significant part of the agenda and Mr. Bush's proposals are likely to become a major focus.
Mr. Bush's proposal is closely modeled on legislation introduced last summer by Senator John McCain and Representatives Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, all Republicans from Arizona. The issue of illegal workers has been an important one there.
"We are ecstatic that they are addressing this," Mr. Flake said in a telephone interview on Tuesday night. "We've maintained all along that you have to deal with both sides of the issue -- those who want to come to the country, and those who are here now. We're very happy to see a realistic approach. We deal with it daily, and we have to have a rational policy."
Mr. Bush's proposal is in some ways more generous to illegal workers than is Mr. Flake's bill. The legislation, for example, requires that a guest worker wait three years before applying for a green card. Under Mr. Bush's proposal, a worker could apply for a green card right away.
Mr. Bush's proposals apply to all illegal immigrants in the United States, which officials estimate at 8 million to 14 million people. About 60 percent are thought to be Mexican. No one is certain how many undocumented workers there are among all illegal immigrants, but Mr. Fox has said that some 3.5 million of the workers are Mexican.
Mr. Bush entered office with immigration reform at the top of his foreign policy agenda, and in the late summer of 2001 various guest worker proposals were under discussion by United States and Mexican officials. But the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks led to increased concerns about the safety of America's borders and derailed the negotiations.
Under Mr. Bush's proposals, an undocumented worker and an employer would have to apply for the guest worker program hand in hand, with the employer serving as the sponsor for the worker. There would also be a fee to register for the program, but officials would not say how much that would be.
The plan also includes incentives for workers to return to their countries, like a promise of retirement benefits there based on income earned in the United States.
Critics of Mr. Bush's proposal noted that unless the White House sought, and obtained, a large increase in the number of green cards issued each year, many of the undocumented workers who apply under the president's program could face an extended wait for residency, 10 to 20 years, by some estimates. 
Administration officials acknowledge that the wait for a green card could take up to six years or longer, meaning that some guest workers who apply for green cards but do not receive them before their guest worker status expires would face the prospect of being forced to leave the United States. In that case, critics of the proposal said Tuesday night, workers would be better off remaining illegal and staying indefinitely in the United States, rather than revealing themselves to immigration officials when they sign up for a program that may, these critics assert, lead to their deportation. 
"They're asking people to sign up for a program that is more likely to ensure their departure than ensure their permanent residency," said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy organization. 
Administration officials declined to say how long people could remain in the guest worker program. But Ms. Munoz said congressional officials briefed on the program told her they were led to believe that it could be no longer than six years.
 Groups opposed to increased immigration also criticized the president's proposal. "It's an amnesty, no matter how much they dance around the fact," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center on Immigration Studies, a group that seeks to limit immigration. "It's legalizing illegal immigrants."
Other critics say that the guest worker program could lead to the exploitation of immigrant workers. "If you are dependent on an employer filing a petition on your behalf, that employer has a tremendous club over you," one person briefed on the president's proposal said.
But an administration official said that the plan would protect the rights of undocumented workers, "who now live in the shadows, and are fearful of coming out of the shadows."
A number of limited guest worker programs already exist in the United States, but they are designed for skilled technology workers, who typically come from India, China and Eastern Europe.
Mr. Bush will also argue, administration officials said, that his plan will make the country safer by giving the authorities a better idea of who is in the country and crossing its borders. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about a proposal by President Bush to overhaul immigration laws misstated the number of green cards issued per year. It is 675,000 (140,000 is the number of employment-based visas). An article yesterday about the proposal also included an incorrect total from the Immigration Service. The article on Wednesday also referred imprecisely in some copies to the amount of time Mr. Bush proposes that undocumented workers could participate in a guest worker program. While the White House indeed did not specify the time, it did offer workers the option of three years, plus a chance to renew for three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AMNESTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DUE PROCESS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); LOBBYING (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JEFF FLAKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



144 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: China Announces New Bailout of Big Banks 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
China announced a complex transfer on Tuesday of $45 billion from its soaring foreign exchange reserves to two of the four big government-owned banks, the third large bailout in the banking system in less than six years.
 The transaction is intended to help shore up the financial institutions, the Bank of China and the China Construction Bank, so they can sell stock for the first time, the Chinese central bank said in a statement. The central bank admonished the commercial banks to do a better job of controlling fraud and limiting bad loans. 
 "When dealing with bad assets, they have to strictly investigate the responsibility of the related officials," the statement said. "They have to fight fiercely against those who have tried to run away from bank loans through illegal behavior." 
 Beijing bars Chinese journalists from reporting on the full extent of the banks' troubles, especially writers for mass-media publications read by many depositors. But with their promises of tough action against errant bank officers, the statements issued on Tuesday by the central bank and other agencies hinted at a concern about public perceptions of the bailout.
 The costs of the American savings and loan bailout more than a decade ago -- $123.8 billion in public funds and $29.1 billion in supplemental deposit insurance premiums from financial institutions -- drew considerable complaints from politicians and the public in the United States. China has been eager to prevent a similar controversy. Its latest bailout, while costly, covers less than half of the nonperforming loans at two of the four troubled banks, and in an economy that is one-eighth the size of America's.
 Tao Dong, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston, said that "$45 billion is probably not sufficient, but a very decent number to start with." Mr. Tao said that while the latest bailout, split equally between the two banks, showed the government's interest in cleaning up the industry, what Chinese banks really need is to reform their lending practices so they stop making more bad loans. "Most important is having new credit-risk management established," he said. "Without that, any new money will be lost."
 The need for another bailout underlines the problems that have vexed China's financial system even through two decades of rapid economic growth. The big four banks -- the others are the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and the Agricultural Bank of China -- say that 20 percent of their loans are nonperforming. But Western analysts say that up to 45 percent ofborrowers do not repay loans, although this share may be falling. By contrast, in the third quarter, loans at American commercial banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that were more than 90 days past due or were nonperforming represented 1.24 percent of all outstanding loans.
 Bankers said the Chinese banks' best chance of selling stock would be to list their shares on Western markets as quickly as possible -- to take advantage of the mania lately with investors asking few questions and Chinese initial public offerings oversubscribed as much as 700 to 1.
 "Why do you want to buy Chinese banks?" a Beijing banker asked. "What makes you think these guys will do anything any differently in the next four years?"
 China doubled the capital base of the four big banks in August 1998, by effectively giving them $32.5 billion through two complex swap agreements. In 2000 and 2001, it set up four asset management companies that bought $169 billion worth of nonperforming loans from the four banks at face value. The asset managers, owned by the finance ministry and indirectly by the central bank, have been struggling ever since to sell these loans for pennies on the dollar.
 After each of those bailout actions, further loan losses quickly eroded the banks' capital bases.
 Provincial and municipal governments put pressure on local bank branches to approve loans to politically connected individuals and to money-losing government-owned enterprises that employ large numbers of people. The four big banks are trying to address this problem by centralizing in Beijing their decisions on loans and by installing computer systems to monitor lending patterns.
 The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a statement that it was transferring the money for the latest bailout to a new, specially created management concern, the Central Huijin Investment Company, which will then invest the money in the banks. The company's directors and supervisors will come from the foreign exchange administration, the finance ministry and the central bank, giving these agencies a continuing role in the two banks' ownership and financial management even after they sell stock.
 Beijing's use of foreign exchange reserves caught the attention of currency traders, who have been looking for any sign that officials might allow the Chinese yuan to appreciate in value, as demanded by American, European and Japanese officials. 
 But a financial expert who insisted on anonymity said the two big banks were required to keep the money in dollars, which would make it easier for the central bank to continue preventing traders from bidding up the value of the yuan.
 The central bank has been printing yuan on a vast scale to buy dollars and prevent its appreciation. It has then taken some of the extra yuan out of the financial system by selling bonds and withdrawing from circulation the money used to pay for them.
 Enough yuan have nonetheless been issued to allow banks to lend more money in the first seven months of 2003 than in all of 2002. This has prompted fears that the banks may have engaged in another round of reckless lending that will produce a fresh wave of defaults.
 The central bank now keeps the yuan in a tight range around 8.28 to the dollar. The financial expert said government officials had promised the two banks that they could exchange the dollars for yuan later if necessary at a rate of 8 to the dollar. This would act as a hedge against losses if the yuan does appreciate. It could also suggest an acknowledgement by Beijing of an eventualappreciation of the yuan. 
 Ryan Tsang, director for greater China financial services ratings at Standard & Poor's, said the accounting rules would let the banks count dollars as capital for purposes of meeting international capital requirements, without converting them to yuan.
 Desmond Supple, an economist at Barclays Capital, wrote in a research report on Tuesday that the banks would be able to write off loans as uncollectible and make corresponding accounting entries against their equity without converting the dollars into yuan.
 The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said the transfer to the banks was actually accomplished at the end of last year, which will allow the banks to show the extra capital in their year-end accounts. Several bankers said this might make it easier for the banks to pursue stock offerings by the end of this year. The foreign exchange agency said that even after deducting $45 billion, China's foreign reserves leaped $116.84 billion last year, to $403.25 billion.
 Standard & Poor's and Moody's each welcomed the latest bailout as a sign that Beijing was addressing difficult problems in the banking industry instead of letting them pile up. "It's a very good development," Yen Wei, a vice president at Moody's, said. "It really demonstrates the government's commitment."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Sea of Red Ink"Years of poor credit decisions have left China's four big state-owned banks saddled with a high percentage of bad loans. NONPERFORMING LOANS AS PERCENTAGE OF ALL LOANS, END OF 2002 Agricultural Bank of China: 36.6%Industrial and Commercial Bank of China: 25.7%Bank of China: 22.5%China Construction Bank: 15.3% (Source by Fitch Ratings) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANK FAILURES (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (75%); JOURNALISM (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (65%) CHINA; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (84%); INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (62%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (58%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (57%); AMERICAN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CHINA; CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); 1288 (HKSE) (84%); 1398 (HKSE) (62%); 3988 (HKSE) (58%); 0939 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



145 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Trade Curbs Affect More Than Ranchers 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The discovery of two cases of mad cow disease on North American farms in the last nine months has sent ripples through more than Canada's beef industry, creating a surplus of milk because dairy cows can no longer be exported to the United States and a shortage of pet food because American animal parts are banned in Canada. 
 Beyond that, a range of farm businesses, from trucking companies to auctioneers, are adjusting to the loss of what had been both a huge export market and a valued supplier. Canadian exports of cattle and beef products came to a halt last May when a case of mad cow disease, as bovine spongiform encephalopathy is known, was found on a ranch in northern Alberta. In late December, the northbound trade in these products was curbed as well, after the discovery of a case on a dairy farm in Washington State. 
 Agriculture makes up only 1.2 percent of Canada's economy, and cattle about half of that. The direct impact of mad cow disease is concentrated in Alberta and Saskatchewan, the two main cattle-raising provinces, but the restrictions on Canadian cattle are creating difficulties in other areas. "As the length of the ban increases in time, it's going to take a heavier toll," Derek Burleton, a senior economist at the Toronto-Dominion Bank here, said.
 According to Statistics Canada, 1.69 million Canadian cattle were shipped to the United States in 2002, almost a third more than in 2001. Close to 95 percent of those animals came from beef herds.
 But the closing of the border has also been hard on dairy farmers, who exported 68,200 dairy cows in 2002. The dairy animals shipped across the border, mostly Holsteins, fell into three categories: breeding stock, calves to be reared as milk cows, and older animals that produce less milk -- so-called cull cows that are typically slaughtered for hamburger. Before the border was closed, the lives of 7 of every 10 Canadian dairy cows ended in either the United States or Mexico.
 Despite the loss of the American market, herds in Canada have not been pared to reflect the changed circumstances; in fact, cattle numbers have increased sharply and are expected to continue rising for at least another few months. Many farmers are holding back animals; some have continued to breed in the hope that the border will reopen by spring. 
 Reducing the numbers of cattle would be difficult in any case, because the number of slaughterhouses in Canada has shrunk over the last decade. Several abattoirs in Ontario and Quebec closed in the 1990's as the export trade grew and they were unable to compete with bigger plants in the United States. 
 "We're putting more cows into the dairy system than we really need," said Gordon Coukell, chairman of the Dairy Farmers of Ontario in Mississauga, a suburb of Toronto. The organization is a private regulatory group that helps oversee production and import quotas intended to keep Canadian milk prices and dairy farm incomes on an even keel. 
 Dairy farmers are considering several options to contain the milk surplus. As one effort, animal feed manufacturers are increasingly using more milk-based products. Mr. Coukell said the industry was also examining the possibility of replacing dairy imports with local products. And a new slaughterhouse is on the drawing board, to be built near Kitchener, Ontario.
 On another front, the mad cow outbreak has resulted in a pet food shortage in Canada. About half of the pet food sold in Canada, including some of the most popular brands, like Iams and Science Diet, are imported from the United States. But Canada, like many other countries, has banned the American products, including those made from the remnants of pigs, chicken or fish.
 "We're running low on those products, but that's not to say that pets go hungry," said Morris Manna, president of Can-Pet Distributors of Concord, Ontario, which supplies independent pet stores. Mr. Manna is advising dog and cat owners to turn to locally made food. 
 Prospects for a return to familiar trading patterns are cloudy. In August, the United States lifted the ban on imported beef from animals younger than 30 months. These products made up about 40 percent of the value of Canadian beef and cattle sales to the United States before the mad cow problem. Trade in semen and embryos has also resumed.
 The United States Department of Agriculture had set a Jan. 5 deadline for comments on a proposal to allow imports of young cattle from countries like Canada, judged to be at minimal risk for mad cow disease. But the process is now likely to take considerably longer, in light of the department's belief that the diseased cow discovered in Washington State came from a Canadian herd, and its outcome is not certain. 
 Dr. Ron DeHaven, the chief veterinarian at the Agriculture Department, said on Monday that "there's been no limit in terms of the options that might be considered or at what point we would make those determinations." 
 The Canadian authorities have come to the aid of farmers with several assistance programs. Most recently, the federal government said that it would encourage farmers to reduce their herds by paying 320 Canadian dollars (about $250) for each older animal slaughtered. Before the mad cow bans, an animal would typically fetch $600 to $700. Now, the same animal is worth less than $100.
 "We recognize that if you can't sell the older cows, that may cause some trouble," said Pierre Doyle, assistant director in the dairy section of Canada's agriculture department.
 Mr. Burleton, the Toronto-Dominion economist, said that while government budgets have been pinched by slow economic growth, the federal government and the province of Alberta were "probably the two governments in the best shape" to afford such assistance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cowboys drove cattle to market last month on a road northwest of Calgary in Alberta, one of Canada's prime beef-raising provinces. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W1); A day-old calf gets an ear tag on an Ontario dairy farm, as required by a Canadian system to track cattle. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (94%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); BEEF (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); PET FOODS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); MEATS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TRENDS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (66%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (58%); TRUCKING (56%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Mad Cow Disease (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy); Livestock; Livestock Diseases; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Meat; Dairy Products; Farmers; Agriculture ; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Pet Foods; Shortages; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Statistics Canada

TICKER: TD (TSX) (67%); TD (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%)

PERSON: Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ALBERTA, CANADA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2004 



146 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Great Chair, but What Is That Smell? 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG KELLOGG

 BODY:
AERON, the ergonomic chair that was a standard-issue luxury item for dot-com entrepreneurs at the height of the economic bubble of the 1990's, was the subject of numerous complaints lodged last year by a small but vocal group of customers. Herman Miller, the Michigan-based manufacturer, acknowledges that 625 Aeron chairs were delivered with padded armrests that retained a persistent and distinctly unpleasant smell.
 The problem, for which the company is blaming a new supplier, may be related to the curing process for foam in the armrests. Alternately, said Mark Schurman, a Herman Miller spokesman, it could have been the byproduct of a chemical agent used to coat armrest molds, something that acts like a nonstick cooking spray. He said, however, that there was no danger to health as a result of the odor and that the process had been corrected. 
 The chairs, which have the posture of a praying mantis and can be bought at Design Within Reach for $829, are assembled in Michigan. The workers who attached the armrests may not have noticed the odor because of the speed of the production line. "Sitting in the chair for a few hours, perhaps you notice it more," Mr. Schurman said. The bulk of the complaints surfaced not long after the chairs wereassembled last August. Reports were also filed with the company in September. A recall was not issued because some armrests from the supplier were not affected, Mr. Schurman said. As he put it, "There was no bad batch."
Technicians made house and office calls for requested replacements. "We have the best seating warranty in the industry," Mr. Schurman said, "12 years, bumper to bumper. We are committed to customers' satisfaction."
Herman Miller maintains a strong financial interest in the reputation of the Aeron chair. In the eight years since it was introduced, it has become a moneymaker and a high-end design icon, reflected by its inclusion in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. But the company has seen its dominance challenged in what Mr. Schurman calls the "high-performance, high-design seating" category, a category the Aeron chair essentially created.
Last spring, Herman Miller itself introduced Mirra, a slightly less expensive task chair. The company maintains that Mirra has not affected Aeron sales.
In an attempt to hold its own against the No. 19 from Allsteel ($680), the Life chair with adjustable arms and seat pad from Knoll ($708) and the Leap chair from Steelcase ($450), Herman Miller was taking steps to bolster the Aeron brand with updated upholstery colors and by marketing to more affluent buyers. 
"When the chair was originally introduced, we said it was not an executive chair," Mr. Schurman said. 
But last year, Herman Miller began offering an even more expensive polished aluminum frame meant to signify the management class. The gussied-up chair costs $285 more.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SNIFF -- Hundreds of Aeron chairs last year came with odorous armrests. Herman Miller, the maker, offers free replacement parts. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); OFFICE FURNITURE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (72%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (84%); STEELCASE INC (54%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (84%); MHR (FRA) (84%); SCS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (84%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (84%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (84%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



147 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Many State Arts Councils Make Their Case and Survive Budget Cuts 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
At the beginning of last year, a legislative committee in Arizona looking for ways to cut that state's budget recommended eliminating the state's arts council. In New Jersey, Gov. James E. McGreevey made the same suggestion: if some agencies must be abolished, maybe one should be the arts council. 
 But in a remarkable turnaround that has been replicated in statehouses across the country, the councils not only survived budget tightening but endured less painful cuts -- 12.4 percent in Arizona, for instance, and 23.7 percent in New Jersey. They were among many cultural agencies that are in much better financial shape today than some had feared a year ago. 
 Only three states -- California, Michigan and Florida -- reduced their arts budgets by more than $10 million in 2003. Those reductions alone represented two-thirds of all cuts absorbed by state arts agencies. 
Most of the other 47 states made substantially smaller reductions in their arts budgets than were proposed at the beginning of 2003. Arts administrators consider that a major victory, because in recent years their programs have been among the first to suffer.
"There is a realization that the arts are a major, major economic contributor," said Richard J. Schwartz, chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts. "At some point maybe that point wasn't being made as well, but it's certainly being made now. Governmental leaders are very much aware of the contribution that arts spending makes to the well-being of a state, and how detrimental it can be to riddle these budgets with cuts."
David Wilson, executive director of the Kansas Arts Commission, said state organizations, often advised by national groups, "have gotten much more savvy, much better at making their case."
"They aren't just saying arts are nice and good," Mr. Wilson said. "Now they're using numbers and hard facts to show how much of an economic impact the arts have and how important they are for kids."
In California, where a fiscal crisis helped lead to the recall of Gov. Gray Davis and the election of Arnold Schwarzenegger, the arts budget was cut by 90 percent this year, falling from more than $20 million to less than $2 million, according to the National Assembly of State Arts Agencies. In Florida a $30 million arts budget was cut to $6.7 million, and in Michigan, the arts budget fell from $22.5 million to $11.8 million.
Many other state arts agencies were expected to suffer comparable reductions this year, but did not. Sixteen states kept their cuts to less than 10 percent, and in 18 other states the arts budget actually increased or stayed the same.
"Those early predictions were wrong because people made them too soon, at the very beginning of the legislative process," said Jonathan Katz, chief executive of the National Assembly of State Arts Agencies. "Some people underestimated the ability of the arts community to make its case to public officials, and it's a very compelling case."
"When state governments make up their budgets, they naturally want to support programs that produce jobs, tax revenue, increases in tourism, stronger local communities and other concrete benefits," Mr. Katz said. "I think we've turned the corner in our ability to show that the arts does all that."
State arts budgets for the current fiscal year total $272.4 million, down substantially from their peak of $446.8 million in 2001. Also this year, annual per capita state spending on arts programs dipped below the $1 level for the first time since 1996. Closer study of state budgets, however, shows that many of these cuts have been concentrated in only a few states.
More typical is the experience in Kansas, where the state arts commission took a cut of only 1 percent. The commission has worked with citizens and an advocacy group based in Washington, Americans for the Arts, to prepare studies showing the effects of arts spending in specific communities. One study concluded that in Lawrence in 2001, cultural programs generated $33 million in economic activity, provided full-time jobs for 1,200 people and produced $1.5 million in state-tax revenue.
The successes in Kansas can be attributed partly to the use of more sophisticated lobbying techniques, Mr. Wilson said. "The Internet has had a big impact on our ability to tell our people what's happening in the Legislature, and to mobilize them to contact their own legislators," he said. "We've been able to reframe the argument, and that has really turned things around for us here in Kansas and, I believe, in other states as well."
The National Assembly of State Arts Agencies is one of several groups that gave local arts advocates advice on lobbying last year. In one mailing to members it provided tips on speaking to legislators. "Don't focus too much on the intangible benefits of your issue," the mailing said. "Understand what matters most to that politician and how the arts relate to their agenda. It may be the arts' role in promoting tourism or improving education or reducing crime. Experience has proven that the arts win attention when they are part of a broad agenda of public-policy concerns. Offer concrete information about the reach of the arts in your state and the impact of public funding."
Arts councils, like other public agencies, have been severely affected by fiscal crises that have reduced budgets in almost every state. Arts budgets have been under pressure for several years. In Massachusetts, for example, this year's arts council budget was the same as last year's, which was down 62 percent from the year before.
Alarmed by budget cuts like that in recent years, arts organizations waged intense campaigns in many state capitals during 2003. Although arts councils receive an average of only 0.048 percent of total state spending from general funds, according to the assembly of arts agencies, they have been easy targets for legislators looking for places to trim budgets.
Many arts agencies have won over legislators by assuring them that their grants are not concentrated in big cities but spread statewide. Some, like the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, have even invited local legislators to pass out grant checks in public ceremonies.
"In the past most of our support was focused on Philadelphia and Pittsburgh," said Philip Horn, executive director of the Pennsylvania council. "That didn't give legislators from other areas much reason to be supportive, and it fed the impression that spending money on the arts is charity for the rich. Having these legislators hand out the checks might have seemed crass at first, but it's had a great impact in showing them how much these grants can do for local communities. It begins to change the image."
The budget for the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts increased by 1.9 percent this year, from $13.7 million to $14 million. One reason that many Pennsylvania politicians support the arts, Mr. Horn said, was because that state lacks term limits for legislators and governors.
"When you're coming in new, you have so much stuff coming at you that arts seems like a very low priority," he said. "People who have been around a while are more likely to see the benefits of these programs."
States with acute fiscal crises are still most likely to make deep cuts in arts budgets. "We were decimated -- the literal use of the word applies," said Adam Gottlieb, spokesman for the California Arts Council. "Every agency has had to tighten its belt, but we lost our belt. We were unable to make our case. The silver lining is that we're still here, which is something, since we were threatened with elimination. But still, California now has the dubious dishonor of being the state with the lowest per capita spending on the arts."
Robert L. Lynch, president of Americans for the Arts, said that arts budgets tend to follow the rise and fall of state economies.
"Not all economies are as bad as California or Michigan or Florida, and that's why you aren't seeing such big slashes," Mr. Lynch said. "Arts funding went down in the last few years because of Sept. 11, the economic downturn and the dot-com fallout. Now, with economies starting to recover and the stock market rising, arts budgets are better able to hold their own."
"My optimism is not a Pollyanna optimism," Mr. Lynch said. "Every vote to appropriate money is a hard vote for state legislators. But when I look at discussions about this issue, whether it's at the federal, state or local level, I see a lot more people, legislative leaders, articulate and positive about the value of the arts. The arts are seen not as being an impediment to economic growth, but as part of the solution. Not everyone feels that way, but I see that attitude as being on the increase."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "From Decimation To Sweet Relief"State appropriations for the arts continue to decline nationwide from their peak in 2001. But two-thirds of the overall change from 2003 to 2004 is expected to come from three states, while 18 states are expected to have increases or no change. Graph tracks arts appropriations, all states, in millions since 1994. Percentage change in appropriations, 2003 to 2004 Map of United States shows percentage change in appropriations from 2003 to 2004. (Source by National Assembly of State Arts Agencies)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (94%); BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



148 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: Surprises in the Family Tree 

BYLINE:  By MITCHELL OWENS

 BODY:
JOHN ARCHER first appears in Northampton County, Va., in the mid-17th century. He started a family that prospered, fought in the Revolutionary War and built a mansion. Generations later, Archer's blood trickled down to me. It mingled in my veins with DNA from a gravedigger in 17th-century Wurttemberg, Germany; from an Appalachian clan with a recessive gene that turns their skins indigo blue; and from a rich young widow in Jamestown, Va., whose fickle heart led to America's first breach-of-promise suit, in 1623.
 I have been researching my past for two decades, since I was in high school, so finding a new ancestor is hardly startling. Learning about John Archer three years ago, however, was startling. He was black, a slave or indentured servant freed around 1677. I am white. That's what it says on my birth certificate. Now I know better, thanks to Paul Heinegg. 
 A retired oil-refinery engineer in Collegeville, Pa., Mr. Heinegg, who is white, has compiled genealogies of 900 mixed-race families who lived freely in slaveholding states in "Free African Americans of North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia" and "Free African Americans of Maryland and Delaware." (The information is posted on a Web site, www.freeafricanamericans.com.)
Mr. Heinegg's research offers evidence that most free African-American and biracial families resulted not from a master and his slave, like Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings, but from a white woman and an African man: slave, freed slave or indentured servant.
"Most of the workers in colonial America in the 17th and early 18th centuries were indentured servants, white and black," said Dr. John B. Boles, a professor of history at Rice University in Houston and the editor of "The Blackwell Companion to the American South" (2001). Since there was not a clear distinction between slavery and servitude at the time, he said, "biracial camaraderie" often resulted in children. The idea that blacks were property did not harden until around 1715 with the rise of the tobacco economy, by which time there was a small but growing population offree families of color. Dr. Boles estimated that by 1860 there were 250,000 free black or mixed-race individuals.
"Some academics have studied this parallel story of blacks in America, but it hasn't trickled down to the general population," Dr. Boles said. "The action is in slavery studies." Mr. Heinegg is one of the few people to trace the free black families that lived in slave-owning America: some of them rich slave owners, most of them poor farmers and laborers, nearly all of them little known.
"When I saw what Paul had done, my eyes opened wide," said Dr. Ira B. Berlin, a professor of American history at the University of Maryland and the founding director of the Freedmen and Southern Society Project there. Dr. Berlin met Mr. Heinegg in November 2000 at a conference in Durham, N.C., about the mixed-race cabinetmaker Thomas Day, a major antebellum figure. The documentation Mr. Heinegg had amassed in five years convinced Dr. Berlin to write a foreword to his book praising his meticulous work.
It is incontrovertible that America is a multiracial society, from the founding father Alexander Hamilton (the son of a mixed-race woman from the British West Indies) to Essie Mae Washington-Williams, 78, a retired schoolteacher, who, the late Senator Strom Thurmond's family acknowledged last month, is his daughter. And for decades there have been questions about the possible mixed-race ancestry of Ida Stover, Dwight D. Eisenhower's mother.
Since 1997, after it broadcast "Secret Daughter," a documentary about a mixed-race child given up for adoption in the 1950's, "Frontline" has been exploring the mixed ancestry of well-known Americans on its Public Broadcasting System Web site. One is Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, whose blood lines, according to the historian Mario de Valdes y Cocom, go back to the van Salees, a Muslim family of Afro-Dutch origin prominent in Manhattan in the early 1600's. If any branch of your family has been in America since the 17th or 18th centuries, Dr. Berlin said, "it's highly likely you will find an African and an American Indian."
That's where Mr. Heinegg, 60, comes in. In 1985, his mother-in-law, Katherine Kee Phillips, who was black, asked him to research her family tree. "I had hoped to trace as many branches of her family back to slavery as possible," he said. Instead, he found that Mrs. Phillips and his wife, Rita, had white ancestors who were not slave masters, including a woman who started a family with John Kecatan, an African slave freed in 1666. The ladies were intrigued by his discoveries but not surprised, Mr. Heinegg said. 
Curious about his findings, he began tracing free black families related to his wife by combing colonial court records, wills, deeds, free Negro registers, marriage bonds and military pension files. Many were dauntingly unindexed.
"Nobody has done anything like this," said Dr. Virginia Easley DeMarce, a historian and former president of the National Genealogical Society who works for the Office of Federal Acknowledgment, Department of the Interior, which decides who is an American Indian. "Paul is the first person to identify families of color on such a broad scope," gathering material from entire states rather than just a county or two.
Dr. Berlin said, "There were communities in 17th- and 18th-century America where blacks and whites, both free, of equal rank and shared experiences, were working together, living together, drinking and partying together, and inevitably sleeping together."
Tracing those communities has not been easy. "People of color are often not identified as such in early records," Mr. Heinegg said. "For example, an individual might appear in deeds and court records and leave a will without ever mentioning his race." Sometimes a person's race can be discerned only by studying the tax assessed on nonwhites. If a man paid the tax on his wife but not himself, Mr. Heinegg said, it meant he was white but she was not.
An added challenge is that racial identity can mutate from free black to white in just a few generations. In my Archer ancestors' case, it was mixed marriages and a cross-country move: my great-great-grandfather Esquire Collins and his wife, Roxalana Archer, are listed as mulatto in an 1800's Tennessee census but show up as white on a later Arkansas census. "You crossed over as early as you were able to," said Antonia Cottrell Martin, a genealogist in New York. Mixed-race families who had difficulty passing sometimes explained dark complexions as coming from an American Indian or Mediterranean ancestry. "It's what people in the South used to call Carolina Portuguese," said Dr. DeMarce, who comes from a mixed-race background.
"Free African Americans of North Carolina," self-published by Mr. Heinegg in 1991, won an award from the North Carolina Genealogical Society. (The American Society of Genealogists gave a later edition the Donald Lines Jacobus Award for best work of genealogical scholarship.) But the book also stirred controversy. Some white members of the North Carolina group were upset with his findings and asked that the award be withdrawn, Mr. Heinegg said.
Dr. DeMarce said: "He's just publishing the documents. He's not interpreting them. That's up to anthropologists."
Mr. Heinegg is familiar with racial prejudice. He and his wife, who met as members of the Brooklyn outpost of the Congress on Racial Equality, left the country in 1969, disgusted by what they saw as a lack of progress. They raised their three daughters in Tanzania, Liberia and Saudi Arabia.
But even when he was abroad, Mr. Heinegg ordered microfilm records by mail and spent one-month vacations in the United States to peer at faded records in county courthouses. He still works on his research, and updates his book and Web site regularly. A new edition of "Free African Americans" is published every two years by Clearfield, a division of the Genealogical Publishing Company, Inc., www.genealogical.com. The latest two-volume paperback costs $100 and is 1,042 pages long.
The index to Mr. Heinegg's book lists more than 12,000 individuals, including ancestors of mine it would be nice to know more about, like Richard Nickens and his wife, Chriss, freed in 1690 by the will of John Carter II, a prominent Virginia planter. Nickens and his wife were given two cows, six barrels of corn and the right to farm some Carter land for life.
Matters like these fascinate me. My brother, Derrick, finds our black ancestry only mildly interesting, being riveted instead by our Native American blood. My eldest nephew, Justin, an elementary school pupil obsessed with islands, cherishes the knowledge that one ancestor was shipwrecked on Bermuda in 1609.
Genealogy is not regarded as an academic discipline, Dr. DeMarce said, which is why Mr. Heinegg's work is not more widely known. And his lists are published by a specialty house, not a university press, she said, "so it's unlikely to be reviewed by a major publication like The American Historical Review."
Mr. Heinegg prefers to let the academics find his work on their own. Right now, he is busy adding more free black Virginia families to his list. "My goal," he said, "is to findthe origins of every family that was free in the Southeast during the colonial period."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about Paul Heinegg, a genealogist who researches mixed-race American families, referred incompletely to Alexander Hamilton and his mother, who were cited as historical examples. While there have been suggestions that the mother, Rachel Faucett or Fawcett -- and therefore Hamilton himself -- was of mixed ancestry, it is not an established fact. (She was born in the British West Indies, the daughter of a French Huguenot father; her mother's ancestry is open to speculation.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHARING HISTORY -- The genealogist Paul Heinegg, left. Right, the Stewart-Day family; the Days descended from a white woman and a black man listed as free in 1692. (Photos by left, Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times; right, Tom Kovalak)(pg. F1); AMERICANS -- The "Indian" Langstons, above; Susan Ward, below left, and her mother, Susan Mozingo Ward, below right, born 1809, part African-American. (Photos by above, Smithsonian; below, left and right, Melicent Remy); BLEND -- Paul Heinegg, an amateur genealogist, his wife, Rita, center right, and daughters: Ayo, on floor; Asha Armstrong, left; and Andiswa, center. (Photo by Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISTORY (89%); SLAVERY (89%); FAMILY (89%); GENEALOGY (78%); DNA (77%); CHILDREN (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); TOBACCO FARMING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: ASHA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



149 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Arestaurant known for its humorous ads hands that task to the New York office of a British agency.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
A RESTAURANT chain known for its irreverent advertising, Chipotle Mexican Grill, has hired the new New York office of an irreverent British agency, Mother, to create its campaigns.
 Chipotle, majority owned by McDonald's, will formally announce the hiring of Mother today. Chipotle, with about 300 stores that compete in the rapidly growing segment of the restaurant business known as fast-casual Mexican, has previously produced its print, outdoor and radio ads internally. 
 The chain's sensibility is typified by a billboard that shows an oversized Chipotle (pronounced chi-POAT-lay) foil-wrapped burrito and asks: "Burrito? Or body pillow?" and by an animated image on its Web site (www.chipotle.com) that shows an employee being buried under a barrage of burritos.
Chipotle, which spends an estimated $8 million to $10 million a year on all marketing communications aimed at consumers, becomes the first advertiser to hire the Mother New York office as its creative agency of record. Before New Year's, the National Basketball Association named the office to work on a creative project, centered on promoting viewership of and attendance at the league's playoff games.
Madison Avenue has been closely monitoring the progress -- or perceived lack thereof -- at the Mother New York office, the first outpost for the agency outside London. The office has had what is known in retailing as a soft opening; that is, a low-key, informal start-up during the last few weeks rather than a big, splashy one with ribbon-cuttings and speeches. The announcement of the Chipotle account is intended as a signal that the office is open for business. 
Mother is one of the hottest agencies in the competitive British advertising market. Since it was founded seven years ago, it has landed assignments from blue-chip advertisers like the Boots drugstore chain, Coca-Cola, Diageo, Orange telecommunications and Unilever.
But whether the charmingly cheeky tone of its output will gain favor in the United States -- among consumers as well as potential clients -- is a question that is difficult to answer, particularly in an uncertain economy for the advertising industry when established agencies are struggling. 
"It's a tough challenge," said John Staffen, who started yesterday as the executive creative director at the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas. Agencies based in other American cities that have opened offices in New York have found it hard to flourish, Mr. Staffen said, much less agencies with headquarters overseas.
Executives at the new clients of Mother New York offered a different perspective.
"We look at ourselves as a company that breaks some rules," said Jim Adams, marketing director at Chipotle, which is based in Denver, "so that wasn't a concern."
Chipotle was especially interested in Mother's New York office, he added, because of the chance to work with the two partners who are the creative executives there, Linus Karlsson and Paul Malmstrom. 
They are a longtime team who most recently worked together at Fallon Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, and are known in the industry by their nickname, the Swedes.
"We make burritos; we try not to take it too seriously," Mr. Adams said. "Mother and the Swedes understand that attitude."
"We've kept an eye on the Swedes," he added, "so when we heard they were involved in opening this arm of Mother, we said, 'Let's go talk with them.' And we've found our creative soul mates."
Tim Andree, senior vice president at the basketball league in New York, said the N.B.A. gave the office the creative assignment because "Mother is obviously one of the hot shops" in advertising. Also, he added, league executives had worked with another partner at the office, Rob DeFlorio, who before joining Mother had been global advertising director at Nike in Beaverton, Ore.
Mr. DeFlorio said that he, the Swedes and the fourth partner at the office --Andrew Deitchman, formerly a global director at the Red Cell agency in London, owned by the WPP Group -- were optimistic about their prospects, despite the widespread belief that transplants find it difficult to put down roots in New York.
"That's because we don't see our office as a transplant," Mr. DeFlorio said, "because the literal definition is taking organs from one entity and putting them into another."
"We're all new to the agency," he added -- none of the four has worked for Mother before. "What's being carried forth is the Mother philosophy, the Mother spirit, not transplanted or exported by Mother people from London."
In hiring the office, neither Chipotle nor the basketball league is dismissing another agency. Chipotle has produced "pretty much everything in-house since we started in 1993," Mr. Adams said. The N.B.A.'s policy is to bring in agencies to handle assignments from time to time as it continues to work with Berlin Cameron/Red Cell in New York, part of WPP.
"At some point, we're going to have to slug it out" with other agencies, Mr. DeFlorio acknowledged. Asked if he was confident the office would prevail in such reviews as frequently as the flagship London agency does, he replied, "Absolutely."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Chipotle Mexican Grill chain has created ads like this one internally. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); FAST CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SPORTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (67%); BASKETBALL (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); TOURNAMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); WEB SITES (54%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%) Restaurants; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (90%); ORANGE SA (83%); HAVAS SA (58%); DIAGEO PLC (53%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%); COCA-COLA CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%) Chipotle Mexican Grill; Mcdonald's Corp; Mother (Ad Agency)

TICKER: CMG (NYSE) (90%); HAV (PAR) (58%); DGE (PAR) (53%); DGE (LSE) (53%); DEO (NYSE) (53%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (53%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



150 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Optimism on Intel Leads Advance in Technology Shares

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Technology stocks rose yesterday, pushing the Nasdaq composite index to its highest level since August 2001. Intel, the leading maker of computer semiconductors, led the gains after an analyst lifted his earnings forecast, increasing investor optimism that corporate profits would grow.
 "It's generally the economically sensitive sectors like technology that do well when the profit picture starts to improve," said Ken Tyszko of Voyageur Asset Management in Chicago. "It's not just momentum that's pushing them higher; it's real live earnings that are helping to propel these stocks." 
 The Nasdaq, which has 43 percent of its value in technology companies, rose 20.31 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 2,077.68.
Declines in prices of the Altria Group and Procter & Gamble helped pull the Dow Jones industrial average down 9.63 points, or nearly 0.1 percent, to close at 10,529.03. The broad-based Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.66 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,126.33.
Seven stocks advanced for every six that declined on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume on the Big Board was heavy, rising to 1.75 billion shares traded from 1.54 billion on Tuesday. It was the busiest day since June 6.
A survey of analysts by Thomson Financial said S.&P. 500 companies would increase their fourth-quarter earnings 22.3 percent on average. 
Intel added $1.09, to $33.99. A Sanford C. Bernstein analyst, Adam Parker, wrote in a report that Intel might benefit from a less-than-expected decline in semiconductor prices. He predicted sales of $35.5 billion and profit of $1.27 a share in 2004. Previously, he forecast revenue of $34.8 billion and profit of $1.20. Mr. Parker raised his rating on Intel to outperform from market perform.
Forest Laboratories jumped $8.81, or 14 percent, to $70.52. A study indicated that its Alzheimer's disease drug Namenda, already approved for treatment of moderate to severe symptoms, also showed statistically significant gains in the treatment of milder Alzheimer's symptoms. The American depository receipts of another big drug maker, Elan of Ireland, gained 94 cents, or 13 percent, to $8.02. Elan reported that a drug for chronic pain had cleared Food and Drug Administration tests and would probably be available within a year.
SanDisk, a big maker of flash-memory cards used in electronic devices, added $3.49, to $67.83. 
Lucent Technologies, whose beaten-down shares doubled in value in 2003, rose 23 cents, to $3.51.
"New money is coming in and being put to work in what were the big winners of last year," said John O'Donoghue, co-head of listed trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Nortel Networks surged 92 cents, to $5.68. Nortel was selected by Verizon Communications to provide equipment for supporting Internet-based phone calls. Analysts at UBS, Smith Barney and Merrill Lynch raised their ratings on Nortel.
Altria fell 71 cents, to $53.12, the third-biggest drop in the Dow industrials. Its Philip Morris USA unit will face class-action lawsuits brought by Missouri smokers who argue that they were misled about the health risks of "light" cigarettes, a state judge decided on Tuesday.
Procter & Gamble slid 88 cents, to $98.10. After the market closed, the company said that profit in the fourth quarter exceeded analysts' forecasts. In late trading, the shares neared $100. 
Airline stocks were strong, led by the American depository receipts of British Airways, which rose $4.55, or 10 percent, to $48.80. The airline reported that passenger traffic increased 4.8 percent in December, the eighth consecutive monthly gain.
Shares of Alcoa, the leading aluminum producer, declined 29 cents, to $38.20. Alcoa will be the first Dow industrial company to report fourth-quarter earnings when it releases its results today.
Duke Energy, the big owner of utilities, jumped $1.17, to $21.20. Duke said its quarterly dividend would remain unchanged at 27.5 cents. Investors had expected a cut.
Darden Restaurants, owner of chains including Red Lobster, fell $1.88, or 9 percent, to $19. Red Lobster's president, Dick Rivera, resigned as sales and profits declined. Analysts at Credit Suisse and J.P. Morgan Securities lowered their ratings on Darden.
Circuit City Stores shed $1.18, or 11.7 percent, to $8.92. The chain said December sales at stores open at last a year fell 1.8 percent, hurt by sluggish demand for video games and stereos.
In the bond market, Treasury prices rose yesterday after demand soared at the government's auction of five-year notes. The Treasury sold $16 billion in five-year notes, to yield 3.26 percent. There was $2.51 worth of bids for each $1 dollar of the notes offered, the highest since August 2000. Demand rose among international investors as global central banks bought United States debt with the proceeds of their currency sales.
By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 100 2/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.24 percent from 4.27 percent on Tuesday.
Here are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.954
High Yield: 3.260
Low Yield: 3.200
Median Yield: 3.240
Total applied for: $40,133,196
Accepted: $16,000,024
Noncompetitive: $101,176
Interest set at: 3 1/4
The five-year notes mature Jan. 15, 2009.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BONDS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPUTER INTERFACE CARD MFG (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); CHRONIC DISEASES (66%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (66%); APPROVALS (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (80%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (70%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (60%); VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); ALU (PAR) (80%); ALU (NYSE) (80%); ALU (BIT) (80%); MO (NYSE) (70%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (80%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (80%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (70%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



151 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
After 40 years, what are some results and lessons of America's war on poverty?

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and a co-editor of The Journal of the European Economic Association. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
"THIS administration today, here and now, declares unconditional war on poverty in America." With those words, Lyndon B. Johnson began the war on poverty 40 years ago today, in his first State of the Union address. 
 To fight poverty, Congress started Head Start, Job Corps, Medicare and Medicaid programs, and increased the generosity of other programs, including Social Security and Aid to Families With Dependent Children. Here are some of the main results and lessons from this "40 Years War" on poverty. 
 Progress has been uneven, with some clear early successes followed by backsliding and then another period of progress, which has so far stalled under the Bush administration. The official poverty rate fell from 19.5 percent in 1963 to 11.1 percent in 1973. Since 1973 it has remained stubbornly stable, rising in the 1970's and 1980's and falling in the 1990's. By 2000, the poverty rate returned to 11.3 percent; last year, it inched up to 12.1 percent. 
The trend is not the same for all groups. For the aged, the poverty rate fell from close to 30 percent in 1963 to 16.3 percent in 1973, then to 10.4 percent in 2002. The share of children in poverty fell from 23.1 to 14.4 percent in the first decade of the war on poverty, but increased to 16.7 percent over the next three decades. For blacks, the rate fell from more than 40 percent before the war on poverty to 31 percent in 1973, and was 24 percent in 2002, still disturbingly high but much lower than it had been. 
The official definition of poverty is inadequate. It omits taxes and in-kind transfers; it pretends that the cost of living is the same in every state. Two of the most costly tools the government uses to fight poverty -- the earned-income tax credit and Medicaid -- are not even counted in the official statistics. Including these transfers would lower the proportion of people below the poverty threshold and hasten the decline in measured poverty in the 1990's. But the poverty line of $14,348 for a family of three is below what most Americans consider the minimum income required for a family to survive. Nonetheless, statistical adjustments are unlikely to change the perception that poverty fell rapidly in the 1960's, grew from 1973 to the early 1990's, and fell again in the 1990's. 
It is still (largely) the economy, stupid. A rising tide continues to lift all boats, although the unemployment rate must fall to a lower level today -- say 4 or 5 percent -- than in the 1960's for poverty to decline. Still, 6 to 8 percent of the population would remain impoverished even with a booming economy because they suffer from physical disabilities or substance abuse, or are unable to work for other reasons, according to a study by the economist Richard B. Freeman of Harvard. 
Demographics have a big effect. Two-parent families are much more likely than single parents to escape poverty and are more likely to be affected by economic conditions. Only 6.8 percent of married couples with children are in poverty, while a third of families headed by an unmarried woman are. The rise in one-parent families in the 1970's and 1980's, along with growing income inequality, are important reasons poverty worsened then. The decline in teenage pregnancies in the 1990's should have a positive effect on poverty in the near term. 
Immigration also matters. Immigrants have a higher poverty rate, and the gap has been growing. Additionally, the rate of immigration has increased. As a consequence, the percentage of all those in poverty who are immigrants increased from 10 percent in 1979 to 20 percent in 1998. 
Incentives matter. Strengthening the incentive for work in the 1990's, by expanding the earned-income tax credit and placing time limits on welfare use -- in conjunction with tight labor markets -- reduced poverty. The employment rate of low-skilled unmarried women with children increased from 30 to 50 percent in the 1990's after decades of stagnation, according to research by David Ellwood of Harvard. Unwed mothers saw a steep decline in poverty in the last decade. 
Antipoverty policy has evolved as political winds shifted and as social science knowledge advanced. Bill Clinton ran on a platform to "make work pay" and "end welfare as we know it" -- and managed to do both. Although it is tempting to conclude that the United States became less generous to the poor in the 1990's, the story is more complicated. Even as time limits restricted welfare participation, more benefits became available for those who work. Increases in the minimum wage and the earned-incometax credit, and legislation requiring states to provide Medicaid to children in poor families even if they went off public assistance, all increased the value of work. The decline in poverty in the 1990's was a result of more than a strong economy, although the boom certainly helped and its effect was probably amplified by these policy changes. 
Many (including me) said the next recession would be the true test of welfare reform. Although poverty increased in the last recession and its jobless aftermath, the increase is not out of line with historical norms. This record reinforces the idea that the boom was not the only reason poverty fell in the 1990's. 
David Ellwood summarizes the lessons of antipoverty policy as follows: "Cash works for those not able or expected to work, work (and work support) works for those who are expected to." Future progress will be more difficult, however, because welfare participants with the best job prospects and fewest nonwork demands on their time and energy have already joined the work force. Professor Ellwood recommends using incentives to reward responsible behaviors, like acquiring skills and providing child support. The future path of wage inequality, job growth and family structure will also critically affect the trend in poverty.
On this anniversary of the war on poverty, aides to President Bush are apparently eyeing another initiative from the early 1960's: a manned mission to the moon. Yet it is also important not to lose sight of the progress that has been made in the 40-year war on poverty, and of the work that remains closer to home.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Picture of Poverty"The war on poverty in the United States got off to a fast start, but has not kept pace since then, especially for children. Graph tracks poverty rates, by age group, of all races for ages 65 and older, under 18, and 18 to 64 since 1960. (Source by Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (96%); POVERTY RATES (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); FAMILY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TRENDS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); MEDICARE (77%); STATISTICS (74%); MEDICAID (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%) United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); JOB CORPS (58%)

PERSON: Alan B Krueger; Lyndon Baines (1908-73) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



152 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fastow Expected to Enter Guilty Plea in Enron Case
Andrew S. Fastow, the former chief financial officer of Enron, has tentatively agreed to plead guilty to fraud charges and has provided evidence for criminal charges expected to be brought against the former chief accounting officer, people involved in the case said.
 The deal with Mr. Fastow -- which would result in him serving at least 10 years in prison -- hinged in part on a resolution of a related criminal case against his wife, Lea. A federal judge in Houston rejected the deal with Lea Fastow because it left him with no ability to increase the sentence above an agreed-upon term of five months. Page A1. 

Italy Widens Parmalat Inquiry
Italian prosecutors are widening their investigation of Parmalat to include Italian and foreign banks, which they suspect helped Parmalat's senior executives spread false information about the company to sell its bonds and lift its shares. C10.

Nasdaq and S.&P. 500 Climb
Technology stocks rose, pushing the Nasdaq composite index to the highest since August 2001. The Nasdaq rose 20.31 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 2,077.68. The Dow Jones average fell 9.63 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,529.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.66 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,126.33. C11.

I.R.S. to Bolster Enforcement Staff
The Internal Revenue Service said it would eliminate 6,700 mostly clerical jobs over the next two years and close its Memphis tax return processing center and use the savings to hire about 2,200 more auditors, criminal investigators and tax collectors. The move is intended to bolster its enforcement staff. C11.

Whistle-Blowers Win $8 Million
Federal prosecutors announced that the government had awarded $8.1 million to two men who filed the first whistle-blower suit contending that unnecessary cardiac procedures were being performed at a California hospital owned by Tenet Healthcare. C15.

U.S. Lifts Ban on WorldCom
The federal government said it had lifted a ban that prevented WorldCom from bidding on new government contracts. C8.

Hopes for a Flowering Empire
The American economy is littered with franchise flops, often because business owners try to recreate concepts that cannot easily be duplicated or latch onto fads like yogurt. But flowers are no fad, and David Harstein, left, thinks his KaBloom chain is on its way to becoming the Starbucks of the floral industry. Small Business. C6.

Chipotle Names British Ad Agency
A restaurant chain known for its irreverent advertising, Chipotle Mexican Grill, has hired the new New York office of an irreverent British agency, Mother, to create its campaigns. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C7.

The War on Poverty Isn't Over
How is the war on poverty after 40 years? The record is mixed. There has been progress, but Americans should not lose sight of what remains to be done. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,529.03 down 9.63Nasdaq composite -- 2,077.68 up 20.3110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% down 0.03The euro -- $1.2647 down 0.0120The dollar -- 106.16 yen down 0.01 Graph "TODAY" shows consumer borrowing since May.November figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$5.0 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); BONDS (74%); JUDGES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); FLORISTS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); PARMALAT SPA (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (56%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); CMG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (56%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (56%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



153 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Warns That U.S. Debt Is Threatening Global Stability 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
With its rising budget deficit and ballooning trade imbalance, the United States is running up a foreign debt of such record-breaking proportions that it threatens the financial stability of the global economy, according to a report released Wednesday by the International Monetary Fund.Prepared by a team of I.M.F. economists, the report sounded a loud alarm about the shaky fiscal foundation of the United States, questioning the wisdom of the Bush administration's tax cuts and warning that large budget deficits pose "significant risks" not just for the United States but for the rest of the world.
 The report warns that the United States' net financial obligations to the rest of the world could be equal to 40 percent of its total economy within a few years -- "an unprecedented level of external debt for a large industrial country," according to the fund, that could play havoc with the value of the dollar and international exchange rates. 
 The danger, according to the report, is that the United States' voracious appetite for borrowing could push up global interest rates and thus slow global investment and economic growth. 
"Higher borrowing costs abroad would mean that the adverse effects of U.S. fiscal deficits would spill over into global investment and output," the report said.
White House officials dismissed the report as alarmist, saying that President Bush has already vowed to reduce the budget deficit by half over the next five years. The deficit reached $374 billion last year, a record in dollar terms but not as a share of the total economy, and it is expected to exceed $400 billion this year.
But many international economists said they were pleased that the report raised the issue.
"The I.M.F. is right," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "If those twin deficits -- of the federal budget and the trade deficit -- continue to grow you are increasing the risk of a day of reckoning when things can get pretty nasty." 
Administration officials have made it clear they are not alarmed about the United States' rapidly expanding external debt or the declining value of the dollar, which has lost more than one-quarter of its value against the euro in the last 18 months and hit new lows this week.
"Without those tax cuts I do not believe the downturn would have been one of the shortest and shallowest in U.S. history," said John B. Taylor, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs.
Though the fund has criticized the United States on its budget and trade deficits repeatedly in the last few years, this report was unusually lengthy and pointed. And the I.M.F. went to lengths to publicize the report and seemed intent on getting American attention.
"I think it's encouraging that these are issues that are now at play in the presidential campaign that's just now getting under way," said Charles Collyns, deputy director of the I.M.F.'s Western Hemisphere department. "We're trying to contribute to persuade the climate of public opinion that this is an important issue that has to be dealt with, and political capital will need to be expended."
The I.M.F. has often been accused of being an adjunct of the United States, its largest shareholder.
But in the report, fund economists warned that the long-term fiscal outlook was far grimmer, predicting that underfunding for Social Security and Medicare will lead to shortages as high as $47 trillion over the next 70 years or nearly 500 percent of the current gross domestic product in the coming decades.
Some outside economists remain sanguine, noting that the United States is hardly the only country to run big budget deficits and that the nation's underlying economic conditions continue to be robust.
"Is the U.S. fiscal position unique? Probably not," said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets. Japan's budget deficit is much higher than that of the United States, Mr. Schoenholtz said, and those of Germany and France are climbing rapidly.
In a paper presented last weekend, Robert E. Rubin, the former secretary of the Treasury, said that the federal budget was "on an unsustainable path" and that the "scale of the nation's projected budgetary imbalance is now so large that the risk of severe adverse consequences must be taken very seriously, although it is impossible to predict when such consequences may occur."
Other economists said they were afraid that this was a replay of the 1980's, when the United States went from the world's largest creditor nation to its biggest debtor after tax cuts and a large military buildup under President Ronald Reagan. 
John Vail, senior strategist for Mizuho Securities USA, said the I.M.F. report reflected the concerns of many foreign investors. 
"I would say they reflect the majority of international opinion about the United States," he said. And he added, "The currency doesn't have the safe-haven status that it has had in recent years."
Many economists predict that the dollar will continue to decline, and that the declining dollar will help lift American industry by making American products cheaper in countries with strengthening currencies. 
"In the short term, it is probably helping the United States," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. 
Fund officials and most economists agreed that the short-term impact of deficit spending has helped pull the economy through a succession of crises. And unlike Argentina and other developing nations that suffered through debt crises, the United States remains a magnet for foreign investment.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow did not address the fund's report directly. But in a speech to the Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, he said Mr. Bush's tax cuts were central to spurring growth and reiterated the Bush pledge to reduce the deficit by half within five years.
"The deficit's important," Mr. Snow said. "It's going to be addressed. We're going to cut it in half. You're going to see the administration committed to it. But we need that growth in the economy. We had an obligation to the American work force and the American businesses to get the economy on a stronger path. We've done it and we have time to deal with the deficit."
But the report said that even if the administration succeeded it would not be enough to address the long-term problems posed by retiring baby boomers. 
Moreover, the fund economists said that the administration's tax cuts could eventually lower United States productivity and the budget deficits could raise interest rates by as much as one percentage point in the industrialized world.
"An abrupt weakening of investor sentiments vis-a-vis the dollar could possibly lead to adverse consequences both domestically and abroad," the report said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EURO (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); HISTORY (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



154 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: SMALL BUSINESS; 
How to Grow Without aLot of Capital

BYLINE:  By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
David Hartstein wanted to make his KaBloom chain of florists the Starbucks of flowers. But how? KaBloom, based in Woburn, Mass., owned 30 shops, mainly in New England, but building more seemed too risky. It had always been difficult for him to motivate store managers to put in long hours, and in a vivid display of the perils of expansion, a competitor with the same national aspirations as his, Gerald Stevens in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., went bankrupt by acquiring too many flower stores too fast.
 So, 18 months ago, Mr. Hartstein turned to a growth path that would bring in cash instead of burning through it and that would attract managers with a vested interest in success -- franchising. 
 At first, Mr. Hartstein, KaBloom's 47-year-old co-founder and chief executive, said his board was apprehensive about the idea, fearing franchisee-owned stores would be less profitable than company-owned ones. But it went along, and to oversee the transition it hired Steven Siegel, a former chairman of the International Franchise Association, who at the time operated 35 Dunkin' Donuts franchises in the Northeast. 
The changes can be tough for the owners to adapt to at first, said Mr. Siegel, KaBloom's chief operating officer and chief financial officer. "If you want to expand rapidly without a lot of capital this is the way to do it, but you're absolutely giving up some control," he said. "If you're not prepared, you can be blown away."
Indeed, while many business owners see franchising as a ticket to riches, "history is littered with franchise flops," said Kevin Hein, a franchise lawyer with Snell & Wilmer in Phoenix. Few franchise operators in the United States pass the 100-unit market, "a big deal" in the industry, he said.
At this point, KaBloom appears to be on its way to that threshold. Since the first franchisee -- the person who buys the franchise and agrees to run it -- opened a KaBloom shop on May 3, 2002, in Andover, Mass., a total of 55 franchised stores have opened in 13 states including Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Florida and Texas, in addition to the company-owned locations. His ambition for this year is to open an additional 100 franchised stores and to increase his company's revenue to $50 million from $12.7 million in 2002. The expansion has created some financial strains, with a surge in spending on infrastructure, from legal fees to computer systems. In the last year alone, KaBloom has more than doubled its corporate staff, to 50 from 20.
But for KaBloom as for any franchiser, success depends less on setting up an efficient system than on finding the right people. Only about a quarter of new franchise systems survive 10 years, says Scott Shane, a professor of economics and an expert on franchising at the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, largely because of the incompetence of the franchisees. A common mistake is to enlist people who view the purchase as an investment, not a job, and hire managers to do the day-to-day work, Mr. Shane says.
"The reason that a franchise owner does better than a manager is that they work harder and longer, and keep a closer eye on costs," he said.
That is particularly critical for the flower business, experts say, because the product is so perishable and the hours are so long (with holidays the busiest times) and so unpredictable (with funerals and other unanticipated events being a big source of revenue).
KaBloom charges franchisees a $30,000 fee for each new store and requires them to spend an additional $110,000 to $182,000 to make the shop adhere to specifications of the chain's master plan. Inevitably, some do not cut it, Mr. Siegel says, using as an example a former marketing executive who kept uneven hours and inadequate inventory. In that case, somebody else bought her store and made a go of it.
To head off such problems, Mr. Siegel warns candidates about the drudgery that lies ahead. "I ask every perspective franchisee, 'Are you ready to be a retailer? You'll be open seven days a week. Saturday is the biggest day of the week,"' he said. "These executives who come out of high tech, human resources, marketing, software, think they're ready for retail, but they're not. It's more important for them to go to their kid's football game or go out on Friday nights."
No matter how rigorous the process, he added, a few inappropriate franchisees will make it through the screening. He is considering doing psychological testing of franchisees, a not uncommon practice in the industry, but not before KaBloom has grown to 500 franchisees.
Another challenge for entrepreneurs going into franchising is maintaining the integrity of the brand. In the last few months, a few KaBloom franchisees made their own tweaks to the company's store concept that did not go over well with corporate headquarters.
One franchisee's store sign had the wrong lettering style, another's van was closer to blue than the purple that KaBloom insists on, another's counter was the incorrect size and yet another's automated glass doors strayed from the company's signature design of opening up to a large refrigerated room where customers can browse at an array of tulips and other flora. 
"We want customers to have that "Wow!" effect, like a garden, all the colors," Mr. Siegel said. "That's the way stores look in Europe." But maintaining the look, he added, can sometimes be a struggle because "franchisees are always testing you to see what they can get away with."
While KaBloom struggles to keep them in line and to protect its brand, the true test of its longevity will be the strength of its concept and the ease with which its model can be copied and maintained, says Andrew J. Sherman, a franchise lawyer and author of "Franchising and Licensing: Two Ways to Build Your Business" (Amacom, 1991).
Mr. Sherman once advised the owner of a thriving waterfront restaurant with mediocre food and overpriced drinks against trying to franchise it. "I said, 'You're successful because of your view,"' he recalled. "That concept cannot be replicated. I'm more impressed to see a successful business in a mediocre location with a good management team."
Likewise, fads like the yogurt craze of the 1980's are poor franchise bets because they end eventually, according to Mr. Hein, the franchise lawyer.
But flowers are no fad. Sales grew briskly in 2003 after stagnating for several years, according to Eric Beder, retailing analyst for Northeast Securities in New York. And Mr. Hartstein and his co-founder, Thomas G. Stemberg, the chairman of Staples, say they believe that KaBloom can persuade Americans to change their habits and buy a bunch every day, like stopping at Starbucks for a latte. "The idea," Mr. Hartstein said, "was to sell flowers the way they're sold in Europe: affordable, convenient."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Hartstein, seated, a co-founder and chief executive of KaBloom, and Steven Siegel, the chief operating officer and chief financial officer. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) Chart: "Franchise Facts"NO. OF FRANCHISERS: 1,500NO. OF FRANCHISE RETAIL UNITS: 320,000AVERAGE INITIAL FRANCHISEE INVESTMENT: $250,000*EMPLOYMENT IN FRANCHISING INDUSTRY: 8 millionANNUAL INDUSTRY RETAIL SALES: $1 trillion+SHARE OF ALL RETAIL SALES: 40%FREQUENCY OF FRANCHISE-OUTLET OPENINGS: Every eight minutesTOP FRANCHISE INDUSTRY: Fast foodTOP FRANCHISE COMPANY: McDonald's *Excluding real estate+For year 2000 (Source by International Franchise Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (91%); FLORISTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FRANCHISEES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FRANCHISORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); RETAIL BAKERIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Small Business; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (84%); SNELL & WILMER LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE ASSOCIATION (82%) KaBloom

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: David Hartstein; Steven Siegel; Eve Tahmincioglu

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



155 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Libyan Stagnation a Big Factor in Qaddafi Surprise 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: TRIPOLI, Libya, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Since Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi proclaimed last month that Libya would rid itself of outlawed weapons, praise has been pouring in from world capitals, the Libyan press reports every day.
 Telegrams and phone calls from heads of state congratulate the "great leader" of Libya's revolution for his visionary decision, a potentially transforming step for a state that made itself a pariah in the 1980's, blazing a path of terrorism across Europe. 
In 1986 its actions prompted a bombing by the Reagan administration. Two years later a Libyan attack brought down Pan Am Flight 103 over the village of Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 270 people, most of them Americans. 
In the space of the last few months, something seems to have come over one of the world's best known boogeymen, an alteration that some American officials attribute to Western resolve in toppling Saddam Hussein, but that many experts say has been percolating in Colonel Qaddafi's mind for a decade.
These experts agree that the main factors underlying his decision are more likely to be his disastrous economic policies at home, the squandering of Libya's bountiful oil resources and a deepening isolation that threatens any hopes for the country's future.
The question that still seizes many Libyans and Western officials is: will it last?
In a private conversation last month with foreign diplomats and intelligence officers, Colonel Qaddafi confided that he would begin a campaign to persuade other nations, starting with Iran, to give up any ambition to acquire nuclear weapons. According to one person who was present, the colonel said such arms "do nothing to enhance security" and retard development.
An amazing shift in strategy, if he does pursue it, Western diplomats here say.
As for the timing of the colonel's proclamation, it may have been motivated primarily by a desire to use Libya's final payout of the $2.7 billion in Lockerbie compensation as leverage to win eased American sanctions, say Western officials who have been involved in the negotiations.
"He realized that Libya was on a path of international isolation and internal stagnation after 30 years of concentrated economic wrecking," said one European diplomat. "But there is no question that the Lockerbie settlement has set the time frame for his actions. He had to make the announcement on weapons if he was to test how George Bush would respond."
That time frame dictates that if the United States does not lift sanctions and remove Libya from the list of terrorist states by May, $6 million of the $10 million promised to victims' families will be returned to Libya. The Bush administration has refused to acknowledge any such time constraints, and President Bush reiterated this week that he was looking for "concrete steps" from Libya before improving relations.
But some experts say there may be a limit to the effectiveness of such demands. Western governments now need to "lock in" the Libyan commitment, said one Western diplomat, because "I would say that we have still not reached the point of no return for the colonel" in moving the country in a new direction.
Still, what he has promised to do is nothing short of astounding. And there are still powerful countercurrents. "It seems the Americans are not in a hurry, so we are not in a hurry," Prime Minister Shukri Ghanim said in an interview.
Echoing that view, Jiumaa Belkhair, a soft-spoken official in the Ministry of Information, said: "Myself, I am not in favor of running after the Americans. Libya doesn't need anything from America, and America needs oil."
British and American officials this month are scrambling to assemble a large team of weapons experts and intelligence officials to create an inventory of Libya's illicit weapons programs and map the steps to dismantle them. As an inducement for Colonel Qaddafi, Britain has signed an aviation agreement allowing British Airways to fly to Tripoli. And Libyan students may soon return to British universities.
Libyan and Western officials, including some who worked closely with Colonel Qaddafi in bringing about his declaration last month, say it is still impossible to fathom him.
"Qaddafi has always had a messianic complex," one Western expert said of the unpredictable army officer, who seized power in 1969. "He feels that God has been unfair to him by making him the leader of a small country of five million people, and he always imagined himself walking on a larger stage, like president of the United States."
Having failed to exert power as an Arab leader in a region that has largely shunned his erratic policies, Colonel Qaddafi has sought in the last decade to reinvent himself as an African leader, lavishing financial aid and oil supplies on a destitute continent, including some on pariahs like President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe.
But none of those attempts to find legitimacy have delivered what Libya needs most: an infusion of Western investment, especially in its oil industry, whose production has declined steadily from a peak of 3.3 million barrels a day in the late 1970's to about 1.4 million barrels a day now, industry experts say.
As a result, much of Libya looks like its poor neighbors. Its schools, hospitals and airports have deteriorated, and its national airline is dangerous to fly, Western pilots say. "They would like to have Boeing aircraft and rebuild their fleet," one Westerner said.
Libya is making a bid with Tunisia to host the World Cup of soccer in 2010, but without access to Western technology, its shabby infrastructure is likely to undermine any chance for success.
Though open political opposition is forbidden here, popular discontentwith Colonel Qaddafi's rule simmers just below the surface. At Al Fateh University, an underground movement that calls itself Elle wages a graffiti campaign to protest the dilapidated conditions of cold and windowless classrooms and outdated equipment, one Libyan said.
The arrival of satellite television and the Internet since the late 1990's -- much later than they appeared in most Arab countries -- has given rise to what professors call an "electronic perestroika," an opening to the outside world that has shocked many Libyans into a realization of the backward conditions they live in.
Shops have opened in a private sector long persecuted for supporting "wage slaves," as the colonel has called them, and on the occasion of the annual People's Congress last June he appointed Mr. Ghanim, the first reformist prime minister, an American-trained economist. 
Prominent ideologues at the congress quickly branded Mr. Ghanim a "traitor to the revolution" for promoting a privatization campaign. Colonel Qaddafi personally intervened to defend him.
Seven months later, Mr. Ghanim's claim to have privatized 360 state companies is more fiction than reality, foreign diplomats say, but he is trying to rebuild the institutions of public administration that Colonel Qaddafi spent years tearing down to prevent any competitor for power from emerging.
"This is a micromanaged country," said one diplomat. "If a light bulb burns out, no one dares to change it until he gets permission from the leader."
Some Westerners here say the war in Iraq did little to affect the pressures that were building on the government. "I think it has been a long process and Libya was well on its way in this process by the time the Iraq war took place, but at the same time, it didn't do any harm," a Western diplomat said.
Still, in an interview with the conservative French daily Le Figaro on the eve of the Iraq war, Colonel Qaddafi betrayed what some readers thought was a new realism about American power.
"When Bush has finished with Iraq, we'll quickly have a clear idea of where he's going," he said. "It won't take long to find out if Iran, Saudi Arabia or Libya will be targets as well," and "at that moment, things will be clear and the rest of us will be able to face them openly."
These days a significant source of influence on Colonel Qaddafi appears to be his family. One son, Saif el-Islam el-Qaddafi, is a student at the London School of Economics. Like Mr. Ghanim, he has brought home a realistic view of revolutionary economics and Libya's image abroad. Moreover, at 61, the colonel may be having serious thoughts of his own mortality, Western officials say.
"He is the chief of his tribe, and he wants most of all for his family to be at the helm of the ship," a European diplomat observed.
These currents were well known among Western governments when Colonel Qaddafi's intelligence chief, Musa Kussa, approached British officials last March seeking to trade Libya's secret weapons programs for a new era of relations.
For months of secret negotiations, little happened as the colonel weighed his options, officials said. In October, after American and British intelligence intercepted a ship carrying nuclear centrifuge technology reportedly provided by Pakistani nuclear scientists and their middlemen, Libya continued to hold back. (The Pakistan government has denied any involvement in the supply of nuclear technlogy.) 
One party in the talks said, "Until December we were still in the dark about whether the whole thing was designed to keep us in play while he was trying to complete a nuclear weapon."
One family confidant said of the weapons: "The son has been ready for a long time to convince him to give them up. But the question has been, in giving them up, what could they get."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, during a visit to Tunisia last month. His pledge to give up illicit weapons has won him praise. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



156 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: ENERGY; 
In an Oil-Rich Land, Power Shortages Defy Solution

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Nine months after the American-led invasion toppled Saddam Hussein, frequent breakdowns in supplies of fuel and electricity, especially in Baghdad, are defying attempts by both Iraqis and foreign occupiers to stitch together something resembling normalcy here.
 Increased fuel smuggling -- a phenomenon that stretches back at least a quarter century -- has now added to the already familiar litany of problems including sabotage by insurgents and an infrastructure weakened by decades of war and sanctions. Three influential Shiite ayatollahs recently went so far as to issue fatwas, or religious decrees, prohibiting followers from smuggling and oil profiteering. 
 In addition, the American bureaucracy for awarding contracts and releasing funds, pilloried by Congress for giving away money too easily, nevertheless moves too slowly to satisfy Iraqis, whose impatience is fertile ground for more acts of rebellion.
"There's a large set of people who are neutral and their patience is wearing thin, and they can join those against us," said Col. Kurt Fuller, commander of the Second Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division, which has responsibility for much of south Baghdad. Back in August, the colonel saw a direct link between the lack of electricity and increased attacks on his soldiers, he said, when power went out in an area called Abu Desheer. 
"We went to the neighborhood council and said, 'You were totally peaceful. What happened?' " he recalled. "They said, 'No power.' Saddam used to cut off power to punish them. So they thought the coalition was punishing them." Anxious to prove that untrue, soldiers went to the Electricity Ministry and got replacements for a burned-out transformer at the local power station installed within a month. Attacks dropped off, the colonel said.
Like the gasoline supply, power to Baghdad improved through the autumn. But a blackout engulfed the city for two days in mid-November and the lights darken for long stretches now.
For weeks, Adel Makhmoud, 25, has folded his blocky, 5-foot 10-inch frame into the back seat of his Volkswagen Beetle and slept there. "We're an oil rich country, we have the second highest oil reserves in the world," he said one recent night near the front of a mile-long line of cars outside a gas station. "Who can improve this?"
Mr. Makhmoud slept in line in the summer, too. Now he and other Baghdadis have grown convinced that things will not get better. At home the power usually vanishes for four hours a day. Mr. Makhmoud lives in the affluent Zayouna neighborhood, where generators power homes for about an hour most nights when power fails. The rest of the time, Mr. Makhmoud and his brother and sister study by kerosene lamp. Baghdadis also heat homes with kerosene, which has contributed to long lines and shortages of that fuel.
While security remains the overriding concern, these burdens take their toll. At the gas line the other evening, Mr. Makhmoud concluded that "despite all this tragedy, it's okay as long as Saddam is gone."
Uday Jihad Kazem, a 30-year-old businessman also waiting for gasoline, demurred. "I think it was better under Saddam. I know he was a dictator. He executed people. But he didn't kill my father, or brothers, or do anything to me."
In general, Iraqis find it hard to believe that the superpower which occupied their country in weeks cannot fix the energy problem in months.
"Expectations have been tragically hyped by political events in Iraq and at home, our normal American short term view and the real needs of the Iraqis who find themselves in a desperate situation after 30 really bad years," said Cliff Mumm, director of a program to rebuild infrastructure for Bechtel Corporation.
"Maybe if the planning had been more comprehensive, the situation would now be a little better, but I don't think prewar planning would have stood up confronted with the reality of how deteriorated the infrastructure of Iraq actually was," Mr. Mumm said.
Only a few Iraqis appreciate the sheer size of the reconstruction problem, or recognize that a relatively cautious occupation can hardly undo the effects of long economic neglect.
"You had Sept. 11 in your country, and did people do things the normal way after that?" said Falah al-Khawaja, an adviser to the chief executive of the Oil Ministry. "No, they did things completely differently, from firemen to the president. And here, we had our whole country destroyed."
Baghdad, for all its troubles, has a verve missing just months ago. More people are out on the streets, including women, who feared abduction and rape during the lawless summer. Stores bustle with customers. Police officers have cars, flak jackets and guns. Along the road north from Basra to Baghdad, new high-voltage power towers have replaced those damaged by sabotage and are protected by armed guards.
But sabotage continues to throttle a steady flow of oil. The pipelines of north and central Iraq that feed oil from the Kirkuk fields to the country's largest refineries have been attacked at least 85 times since the end of the war, according to the Oil Ministry. Although the ministry maintains that sabotage has decreased, just two weeks ago a rocket propelled grenade attack destroyed a fuel depot south of Baghdad.
Iraq imports gasoline and cooking gas from nearly all its neighbors. But for a month now, gasoline lines in Baghdad have grown and ebbed. Dan Senor, spokesman for L. Paul Bremer III, the top American official in Iraq, attributed the gasoline shortages to an enormous influx of cars. "There are now something like a quarter of a million cars since the end of major combat operations have come into Iraq," he said last month during a Baghdad news conference. He also blamed hoarding for some of the shortages.
But others say the shortages stem in great part from the resurrection of the widespread smuggling of fuel out of the country that was prevalent under the rule of Mr. Hussein. 
"It's very profitable," Mr. Khawaja said. "The price of petrol at government stations in Iraq is about one cent per liter versus 21 cents in Kuwait, and that is the cheapest in the region."
Imported gasoline, Mr. Khawaja said, is often smuggled back out of Iraq. "What you need is monitoring from the border to the filling station," he said.
American soldiers and Iraqi police recently arrested smugglers who were trying to bribe officials at a fuel depot with $1,500 to stamp documents that would have let them take gasoline from Iraq to Jordan, said Asim Jihad, a spokesman for the oil ministry.
Money from smuggling, in turn, feeds the attacks on the occupation forces, Oil Ministry and American military officials contend. 
On Dec. 20, Colonel Fuller's soldiers found 28 trucks unloading gasoline and kerosene into tanks in a field. 
His soldiers have taken to escorting fuel trucks from the nearby Doura refinery to local gas stations, just as they did in August, he said.
Because of the war, Iraqi power plants did not undergo routine annual maintenance in the spring. Maintenance was scheduled to restart in October, Mr. Hassan said. Through the summer and fall, Mr. Hassan and others at the Electricity Ministry said, the power plants gave Bechtel a list of needed spare parts. So far, "we've gotten absolutely nothing," he added, and engineers are jury-rigging equipment just as they did under Mr. Hussein.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cars and trucks waited for gas one morning last month in Baghdad.; Rowiya Makhmoud, 27, studies in the light of a kerosene lamp because electricity remains erratic in Baghdad. Smuggling, bureaucracy and sabotage contribute to the problem, which is most acute in the capital. (Photographs by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora, for The New York Times) Graph: "Dim the Lights"As the allied partners struggle to fix the power grid in Iraq, the electricity supply has only surpassed prewar levels once. Graph tracks the electricity supply since August 2003. (Source by Coalition Provisional Authority) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); RELIGION (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



157 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

India and Pakistan Held Secret Talks, Officials Say
Pakistan's decision to end state support for Islamic militants in Kashmir was reached after eight months of secret negotiations between Indian and Pakistani officials, and cemented after one of the recent attacks on the Pakistani president, according to officials in Islamabad. A6

Iraqi Weapons Team Withdrawn
The Bush administration has withdrawn the military team that was scouring Iraq for military equipment. The step was described by some as a sign that the caches of weapons cited as a reason for going to war will not be found. A14

Insurgents in Iraq fired mortar rounds at an American military camp, wounding 35 soldiers in an area used for living quarters. They were given first aid and evacuated for medical treatment. A14

Frequent breakdowns in supplies of fuel and electricity, especially in Baghdad, are defying attempts by both Iraqis and foreign occupiers to stitch together something resembling normalcy. A14

Israeli-Libyan Secret Meetings
Israeli and Libyan officials held a secret meeting in December and discussed the possibility of ties between the longstanding enemies. Officials warned that the contacts are tentative and the Libyan Foreign Ministry denied meeting at all. A3

Drugs Program Was Halted
A United States program to shoot down airplanes in Latin America suspected of ferrying drugs was suspended this fall for a second time, after the Colombian military forced down a plane and then strafed it even though American monitoring personnel had not give their authorization. A12

U.S. Suspends Cuba Talks
The Bush administration has suspended immigration talks with Cuba, saying that Havana has repeatedly refused to discuss certain technical and political issues. A5

NATIONAL A16-30

Illegal-Immigrant Plan By Bush Draws Criticism
President Bush urged Congress to pass his plan to give undocumented workers in the United States temporary legal status. But his proposal drew criticism from some groups involved in the issue for not going far enough to help immigrants and from others for rewarding people who had come into the country illegally. A28

President Adds $47 Million
President Bush's campaign said it took in $47 million in the last three months of 2003, bringing his yearly total to $130.8 million and extending his financial edge over the Democrats seeking to challenge him. A21

Less Dean, Less of the Time
Howard Dean's campaign has begun to limit his availability to the news media, and the candidate is watching his words after several recent statements unleashed criticism. A20

Daschle Urges Beef Labeling
Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, called for the Bush administration to require supermarket meat to carry country-of-origin labels immediately. A16

Declaring Citizens Enemies
The Bush administration reasserted its broad authority to declare American citizens to be enemy combatants, and it suggested that the Supreme Court consider two prominent cases at the same time. A26

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Heart Drug Beats Usual Choice
People with a hard-to-treat type of cardiac arrest are three times as likely to survive if they are given a drug called vasopressin than if they receive the standard emergency treatment, adrenaline. A16

Global Warming and Extinctions
An international group of 19 scientists has concluded that a warming climate will prompt widespread extinctions this century. A4

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Governor of Connecticut Pleads to Keep His Job
Gov. John G. Rowland apologized in a televised speech for lying, pleaded to keep his job in the face of mounting ethical scandals and asked for a chance to redeem himself. A1

Property Tax Rebate Plan
Mayor Bloomberg plans to give back the 18.5 percent property tax increase instituted more than a year ago in a one-time rebate. A1

Debating Gay Rights Bill
A measure that would establish legal recognition for same-sex couples over age 62 is expected to undergo intense debate today in the New Jersey State Senate. B6

Former Nurse Offers Deal
A nurse who has claimed he killed more than 30 patients has offered to help determine which ones he deliberately injected with fatal amounts of medication. It appears unlikely that prosecutors will agree to the deal, which would allow him to avoid the death penalty. B1

Neediest Cases B7

CIRCUITS G1-8

SPORTS D1-7

Redskins Coach Returns
Joe Gibbs, 63, came out of retirement Wednesday to coach the Washington Redskins. A1

ARTS E1-12

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

Suits Over Co-op Flaws
About 35 co-op and condominium boards, most of them in New York City, are seeking damages for physical problems in their buildings. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Enron Guilty Plea Expected
Andrew S. Fastow, the former chief financial officer of Enron, has tentatively agreed to plead guilty to fraud charges and has provided evidence for criminal charges expected to be brought against another former high-ranking executive, people involved in the case said. A1

U.S. Debt Risks Instability
The United States is running up a foreign debt of such record-breaking proportions that it threatens the financial stability of the global economy, according to report released by the International Monetary Fund. C1

Parmalat Inquiry Widens
Italian prosecutors are widening their investigation of Parmalat to include Italian and foreign banks, which they suspect helped Parmalat's senior officials spread false information about the company. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES A30-31

EDITORIAL A32-33

Editorials: A vital immigration debate; India and Pakistan agree to talk; the winning memorial; a real State of New York.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E11
Crossword E9
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD LABELING (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); FOREIGN LABOR (64%); BEEF (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) KASHMIR (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); ASIA (92%); CUBA (87%); COLOMBIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



158 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FUND-RAISING; 
Bush Took In $130.8 Million in Political Contributions in 2003

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush's re-election campaign said on Wednesday that it took in $47 million in contributions in the last three months of 2003, bringing the year's total to $130.8 million and extending the president's financial edge over the Democrats seeking to challenge him.
 The campaign said it had spent $31 million, leaving it with $99 million in the bank as it prepares to unleash an advertising campaign in the next month or two to hit back at the Democrats and promote Mr. Bush's accomplishments and agenda. 
 The fourth-quarter total of $47 million was just short of the $49.5 million the campaign took in during the previous three months and was well above the amount raised by all the Democratic candidates from October through December. Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, raised at least $15 million in the fourth quarter, and Gen. Wesley K. Clark raised at least $10 million. The other Democrats raised far less. 
The Democrats have all been spending the money almost as fast as they raise it as they battle one another for their party's nomination. Whoever emerges as the presumptive Democratic nominee will have to scramble for cash to carry him through the spring and summer. After the Democratic convention in late July, the nominee will receive about $75 million in public financing to pay for the general election campaign.
Mr. Bush intends to continue raising money for the next few months -- he will attend fund-raisers on Thursday in Tennessee and Florida -- and seems likely to exceed his campaign's stated goal of $170 million by the end of March. He would have to spend that money by the Republican convention at end of August, when he, like his Democratic challenger, will receive $75 million in federal money for the rest of the campaign.
Mr. Bush's fund-raising was helped by two developments over the past several months: the improvement in the economy and the capture last month of Saddam Hussein, breaking a long spell of bad news from Iraq.
Mr. Bush's network of fund-raisers, which enlists supporters to solicit a specific level of donations, is the most sophisticated and successful in presidential history, campaign finance experts say.
The network is ideally suited to raise vast sums of money under the new campaign finance law, which places a premium on large numbers of $2,000 contributions from individuals as it banned unlimited soft money checks to the political parties. About two-thirds of the $130.8 million raised by the Bush campaign has come from $2,000 donors.
As of Nov. 30, Mr. Bush had 350 top-level volunteer fund-raisers -- Pioneers, who agree to raise at least $100,000 from friends, colleagues, neighbors and anyone else in their phone books, and Rangers, who agree to raise $200,000. That is an increase of more than 100 people over the 2000 Bush campaign.
"They've created new networks, and it's given them better results," said one Pioneer based in Washington. "One thing they don't do is just round up all the usual suspects."
There are now Pioneers and Rangers in 43 states and Washington, D.C., records show. Texas has the most, at 43, followed by Florida at 35, California at 34 and New York at 27, according to Texans for Public Justice, a group that tracks campaign finance.
Representing all segments of industry, these fund-raisers have gathered at least $48.4 million since Mr. Bush began raising money in May. Mail and phone solicitations brought in $27 million more and the Internet brought in about $3 million, according to the campaign.
Fund-raisers paint a picture of an organized operation that encourages friendly competition and makes top campaign officials accessible to those raising money out in the field.
"He's been easier to raise money for than many," said former Senator Rudy Boschwitz, a Ranger from Minnesota. "He's extremely well organized. He has the same people running the show that he had in 2000, and the group has coalesced."
Mr. Bush even started a new class of fund-raisers last year, Mavericks, who raise at least $50,000 and are under 40 years old. So far, at least 10 people have raised enough to earn the title and 17 others hold it in addition to Ranger or Pioneer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



159 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: A Vital Immigration Debate 

 BODY:
President Bush has now waded into one of the most turbulent and emotional issues of our day: immigration reform. He had barely thrown out the first hints of a new guest worker program yesterday when it came under a noisy assault from both conservatives and advocates for immigrants. For simply reopening what has always been a torturous debate in this country, the president deserves applause. He has recognized that the nation's immigration system is, as he put it, "broken." 
 At first glance, it is not clear exactly how the Bush plan would clear up a border policy that has become steadily less rational, humane and secure, as the number of illegal immigrants here grows by 350,000 each year. But the president started at the right place by addressing one of the basic conflicts in America's immigration policy, that persistent tug of war between keeping the borders secure and enticing needed low-paid workers to sneak past the immigration agents. Essentially, the White House wants to create a guest worker program, this one mostly for lower-skilled jobs. Yet for this proposal to be anything more than a bow to Hispanic voters or a convenient prelude to meetings with the Mexican government, Mr. Bush and his party have a lot of work to do. 
 The president says he wants to set up a job registry to list positions that no American will take. Employers could hire immigrant workers for these posts -- either from abroad or from among those already working illegally in this country. The workers accepting these new visas would have them for only a few years. How many workers would be allowed into the program and what would happen to them when the visas expired loom as large unanswered questions in this proposal.
Despite the lack of details, the president's guidelines clearly do not constitute a sweeping amnesty, as some anti-immigrant groups are labeling it. It is a long way from that. In fact, there is reason to worry that if participants in this guest program have no hope of eventually qualifying for permanent legal residence, they may well slip back into the shadows when the visas come to an end.
The president's outline seems to mirror a bill offered by three Arizona Republicans: Senator John McCain and Representatives Jeff Flake and Jim Kolbe. But that bill has the advantage of offering a real, if slower, path to a green card for those among the nation's 8 million to 10 million illegal immigrants who come forward to join the new visa system.
The president spoke emotionally and well about the nation's long dependency on immigration, and he recalled the many hard-working immigrants he knew in Texas. But he made it clear that his top priority was not ensuring the welfare of illegal immigrants, but securing the nation's borders and meeting the economic needs of this country. Even with that conservative pitch, any real improvement in the immigration quagmire will still be a hard sell on Capitol Hill. Still, Mr. Bush has begun the selling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JEFF FLAKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



160 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: BUSH ON IMMIGRATION; 
Excerpts From Bush's Address on Allowing Immigrants to Fill Some Jobs

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's address at the White House on Wednesday about immigration changes, as recorded by The New York Times:
 As a nation that values immigration and depends on immigration, we should have immigration laws that work and make us proud. Yet today we do not. Instead we see many employers turning to the illegal labor market. We see millions of hard-working men and women condemned to fear and insecurity in a massive undocumented economy. Illegal entry across our borders makes more difficult the urgent task of securing the homeland. The system is not working. 
 Our nation needs an immigration system that serves the American economy and reflects the American dream. 
Reform must begin by confronting a basic fact of life and economics. Some of the jobs being generated in America's growing economy are jobs American citizens are not filling. Yet these jobs represent a tremendous opportunity for workers from abroad who want to work and to fulfill their duties as a husband or wife, a son or a daughter. Their search for a better life is one of the most basic desires of human beings. 
Out of common sense and fairness our laws should allow willing workers to enter our country and fill jobs that Americans are not filling. We must make our immigration laws more rational and more humane. And I believe we can do so without jeopardizing the livelihoods of American citizens.
Our reforms should be guided by a few basic principles. First, America must control its borders. Following the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, this duty of the federal government has become even more urgent. And we are fulfilling that duty. . . .
Second, new immigration laws should serve the economic needs of our country. If an American employer is offering a job that American citizens are not willing to take, we ought to welcome into our country a person who will fill that job. 
Third, we should not give unfair rewards to illegal immigrants in the citizenship process or disadvantage those who came here lawfully or hope to do so. 
Fourth, new laws should provide incentives for temporary foreign workers to return permanently to their home countries after their period of work in the United States has expired. 
Today I ask the Congress to join me in passing new immigration laws that reflect these principles, that meet America's economic needs and live up to our highest ideals. 
I propose a new temporary worker program that will match willing foreign workers with willing American employers when no Americans can be found to fill the jobs. This program will offer legal status as temporary workers to the millions of undocumented men and women now employed in the United States and to those in foreign countries who seek to participate in the program and have been offered employment here. This new system should be clear and efficient so employers are able to find workers quickly and simply. 
All who participate in the temporary worker program must have a job or, if not living in the United States, a job offer. The legal status granted by this program will last three years and will be renewable, but it will have an end. Participants who do not remain employed, who do not follow the rules of the program or who break the law will not be eligible for continued participation and will be required to return to their home.
Under my proposal, employers have key responsibilities. Employers who extend job offers must first make every reasonable effort to find an American worker for the job at hand. Our government will develop a quick and simple system for employers to search for American workers. Employers must not hire undocumented aliens or temporary workers whose legal status has expired. They must report to the government the temporary workers they hire and who leave their employ so that we can keep track of people in the program and better enforce our immigration laws. There must be strong workplace enforcement with tough penalties for anyone, for any employer violating these laws.
Undocumented workers now here will be required to pay a one-time fee to register for the temporary worker program. Those who seek to join the program from aboard and have complied with our immigration laws will not have to pay any fee. 
All participants will be issued a temporary worker card that will allow them to travel back and forth between their home and the United States without fear of being denied re-entry into our country.
This program expects temporary workers to return permanently to their home countries after their period of work in the United States has expired. And there should be financial incentives for them to do so. I will work with foreign governments on a plan to give temporary workers credit when they enter their own nation's retirement system for the time they have worked in America. I also support making it easier for temporary workers to contribute a portion of their earnings to tax-preferred savings accounts, money they can collect as they return to their native countries. After all, in many of these countries a small nest egg is what is necessary to start their own business or buy some land for their family.
Some temporary workers will make the decision to pursue American citizenship. Those who make this choice will be allowed to apply in the normal way. They will not be given unfair advantage over people who have followed legal procedures from the start. I oppose amnesty, placing undocumented workers on the automatic path to citizenship. Granting amnesty encourages the violation of our laws and perpetuates illegal immigration. America's a welcoming country, but citizenship must not be the automatic reward for violating the laws of America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CITIZENSHIP (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



161 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: BUSH ON IMMIGRATION: THE PRESIDENT; 
Plan for Illegal Immigrant Workers Draws Fire From Two Sides

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush urged Congress on Wednesday to pass his plan to give illegal immigrant workers temporary legal status. The proposal drew criticism from some groups involved in the issue for not going far enough to help immigrants and from others for rewarding people who had entered the country illegally.
 The proposal would let millions of illegal immigrants obtain work visas for three years, renewable for an unspecified period, if they can show that they have jobs and if their employers certify that no Americans can be found to perform the work. The plan would also let employers import new workers on the same temporary basis to work at jobs that they cannot fill with Americans. 
 Announcing the plan in a ceremony in the East Room of the White House, Mr. Bush said it made economic sense to allow employers to find willing workers for jobs that Americans did not want. He cast the proposal as part of a tradition of welcoming immigration. The United States has an estimated eight million or more illegal immigrants. 
"Reform must begin by confronting a basic fact of life and economics -- some of the jobs being generated in America's growing economy are jobs American citizens are not filling," Mr. Bush said to cheers from an audience that included cabinet members and representatives of Hispanic groups. "Out of common sense and fairness, our laws should allow willing workers to enter our country and fill jobs that Americans are not filling. We must make our immigration laws more rational and more humane, and I believe we can do so without jeopardizing the livelihoods of American citizens."
Mr. Bush said he was not offering amnesty to illegal immigrants already here. He emphasized that the status for workers who entered without visas or work authorizations would be temporary and would end with most of them leaving. 
"This program expects temporary workers to return permanently to their home countries after their period of work in the United States has expired, and there should be financial incentives for them to do so," Mr. Bush said.
He was alluding to his proposal that workers in the program be allowed to benefit, after returning home, from their payments to Social Security and individual retirement programs that could be set up for them while here.
Mr. Bush announced the plan on Wednesday so he could present it to President Vicente Fox of Mexico when the two leaders meet next week in Mexico. Mr. Bush had been working on a similar package soon after taking office three years ago, but delayed it after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
The announcement represented his first big election year policy initiative, one intended in part to appeal to Hispanics, a particularly fast-growing sector of the electorate. It also sought to satisfy a longstanding demand by employers that Washington make it easier to hire foreign workers for jobs in hotels, on farms, in construction and in other generally low-wage unskilled positions that Americans have reportedly been reluctant to take, even in the economic downturn.
The plan drew criticism from Democrats for hurting American workers and not doing enough to help immigrants.
"The president's proposal will help big corporations who currently employ undocumented workers," Howard Dean, the Democratic presidential hopeful, said in a statement. "But it does nothing to place hard-working immigrants on a path to citizenship and would create a permanent underclass of service workers with second-class status."
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the plan deepened "the potential for abuse and exploitation of these workers while undermining wages and labor protections for all workers."
The view that the proposal would hurt American workers was shared by one of the leading groups that want to keep strict limits on immigration, the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
"With nine million unemployed Americans and the nation in the midst of a jobless recovery," a spokesman for the federation, David Ray, said, "we need a foreign guest worker program like we need a hole in the head. It's going to have a huge downward pressure on wages and working conditions. It will basically allow employers unfettered access to cheap exploitable workers. If they claim they can't fill a job with an American, they can fill it with a foreign worker."
Business groups said the plan would help the economy by ensuring employers access to needed workers.
"We're extremely pleased that the president has gotten engaged in the immigration debate strongly now, because this will move the issue forward, generally and on Capitol Hill," said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce, which has been pushing for a temporary-worker program. "We are supportive of the proposal but also recognize that there are many details that have to be worked out."
In political terms, Mr. Bush is walking a thin line between offering a program generous enough to immigrants that it can win Democrats' backing in Congress while avoiding anything that looks like an amnesty, an approach that many conservatives oppose. As a result, the White House was vague about many details, saying it would work with Congress to fill in the blanks.
Mr. Bush said he would support increasing the number of people who can obtain permanent residency status and start on a path toward citizenship. He said that increase would not be reserved for people in the temporary-worker program and that workers in the program would receive no special consideration for permanent residency.
"They will not be given unfair advantage over people who have followed legal procedures from the start," he said.
Some critics said the plan would not work because most workers would not want to risk being deported after their temporary legal status expired. White House officials said they would negotiate with Congress to determine how long renewals should be.
"If the offer is a temporary visa with uncertain prospects for renewal and no path to permanent residency, you won't have a lot of takers from the undocumenteds here," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which seeks to liberalize immigration. "And you'll probably have a lot of people who come into the country to participate in the temporary program and then jump the program."
Mr. Bush said the program should be accompanied by an increase in the number of people granted permanent residency and, eventually, citizenship. 
"America's a welcoming country, but citizenship must not be the automatic reward for violating the laws of America," Mr. Bush said. "The citizenship line, however, is too long. And our current limits on legal immigration are too low. My administration will work with Congress to increase the annual number of green cards that can lead to citizenship."
He did not provide details. Critics said the plan would have to include an extremely large increase in green cards to allow even a fraction of the millions of people eligible for the temporary-worker program to have a chance at permanent residency and citizenship.
A spokesman for the Citizenship and Immigration Services, Chris Bentley, said the United States issued 475,000 new greencards a year, with 144,000 going to people being admitted specifically to work.
The United States also admits many people on temporary work visas without permanent residency rights. In 2002, nearly 1.3 million people were admitted on temporary visas, including 102,000 for nonskilled agricultural and nonagricultural posts, the immigration agency says.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at the immigration ceremony with, from left, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, Attorney General John Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Illegal Immigrants in the United States"A report released last year by the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated that there were 7 million illegal immigrants living in the United States in 2000. Current estimates by other organizations reach as high as 14 million. Map of the United States shows unauthorized residents, as a percentage of the state population. AN INCREASING POPULATION DURING THE 1990'sThe illegal immigrant population grew by several hundred thousand each year, as more unauthorized residents entered the United States than left. Chart shows the number of new unauthorized residents and the number leaving the unauthorized resident population since 1990+. *Individual data was not available for eight states that each had fewer than 2,500 unauthorized residents in 1990 and 2000.+Includes those who left the United States, died or became legal residents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); AMNESTY (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



162 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: BUSH ON IMMIGRATION: WORKERS; 
Immigrants Are Divided on Bush Proposal

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN; John M. Broder reported from Los Angeles for this article.

 BODY:
If President George W. Bush expects to win a bloc of immigrant support for his new immigration overhaul proposal, some surprises may await him inside the pizza parlor, the beauty shop and Chinese-Spanish restaurant on Fifth Avenue in the polyglot Sunset Park section of Brooklyn.
 "It sounds good, and I say sounds good because it doesn't mean it's good," said Elmer Rodriguez, an El Salvadoran baking slices at Gina's Pizzeria, where the decor suggested Sicily, but the kitchen help was from Latin America. "For someone coming here for the first time and wants to try it out, O.K., but for someone who is already here and wants a future here, it doesn't make sense." 
 Like Mr. Rodriguez, many immigrants were torn between possible benefits and dangers of the three-year temporary work permit proposed by the president. Many wondered whether applicants might open themselves to deportation when the three years expired. 
Others welcomed the plan as a step in the right direction. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, himself an immigrant, embraced the proposal as a way to ensure that the hundreds of thousands of foreigners in the state illegally now could fully participate in the economy. But Mr. Schwarzenegger expressed concern that Washington would not provide enough money to pay for the social services for the new migrants that the president's plan is expected to encourage. 
In Brooklyn, Mr. Rodriguez pointed out other potholes that could trip the unwary. Mr. Rodriguez said he has a temporary work permit, one extended year-to-year to victims of Hurricane Mitch, which devastated parts of Central America in 1998. But for many here illegally, he said, it would not be worthwhile to apply only to risk deportation.
"It's also illogical," he said, "because if they send them back, they're going to come back here again."
The owner of the pizzeria, Tom Cavallino, saw advantages for low-wage employers like himself and tax benefits for the government. But, he also shook his head over what he saw as encouragement for more people to come to the country illegally.
"A lot of times you can't get American people to work -- they're too young or irresponsible," Mr. Cavallino said, adding that when he immigrated legally from Sicily in 1966, he took the first job he was offered, delivering bananas, and opened his pizza place two years later. Now, even immigrants who apply to work at his restaurant try to bargain up their wages, he said.
"If I offer them $5 an hour, they think it's too cheap, they try to make their own price," he said, adding of the proposal: "It's good because they get paid, and they pay taxes, too. It's bad, because it gives them more ideas to come with illegal papers."
Down the block where Michael Chan manages the China Wok, a modest takeout place that advertises Spanish, American and Chinese cooking, the view was more positive.
"This is a good idea because this country is built by immigrants, all the different cultures is what makes this country great," said Mr. Chan, who arrived from China at age 11 to join his father, an illegal immigrant who toiled in a "high class restaurant in New Jersey for very little money."
"If we're talking about the lower-level jobs, it's all done by the illegal immigrants, that's how they contribute," he said. He dismissed the three-year time frame as unimportant when people can earn only two or three dollars a day at home.
From the perspective of Luis Guaman, an Ecuadoran who has been working illegally in Brooklyn kitchens for 20 years, the plan held a strong lure: the possibility of visiting his homeland again for the first time.
But he was skeptical of the president's intentions, echoing many who saw the proposal as an election ploy.
"He offers a lot of things but he doesn't do anything," Mr. Guaman said of the president. "After he wins, forget it. They only give permanent status to top dogs, they don't give it to dishwashers."
Still, Katherine Culliton, a legislative staff lawyer for the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund said she was pleased that Mr. Bush acknowledged that the current system was broken. But, she said: "A guest worker bill isn't enough. It doesn't provide equal worker rights, family unity or a path to citizenship. Unless this plan is changed, it will produce a permanent underclass."
Leaders of the United Farm Workers, the union founded by Cesar Chavez, also expressed misgivings.
"It's not amnesty, that's for sure," said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the union. "I don't really feel, based on what I've heard and read, that President Bush has focused on the real issues confronting us and immigrants in the United States. It doesn't provide a pathway for legalization for those here now, nor for guest workers to be brought in."
Some saw flaws in the plan on a practical level. The plan's reporting requirement would force workers and employers to register each new worker. But these workers are more transient than the rest of the labor force, creating a huge paperwork burden for employers and the government, said Josh Bernstein, director of federal policy for the National Immigrant Law Center, who went on to praise the president's tone.
"He said people shouldn't have to break the law in order to work in jobs that are available to them," Mr. Bernstein said. "He said we shouldn't turn our backs on people working in our economy and taking the hardest jobs. The principles are not bad. It's more the details that are flawed."
In Tucson, Manuel Castillo Flores, 57, and Luciano Salazar Gonzalez, 30, who work illegally as landscapers, said they could live with the proposal despite the shortcomings.
Mr. Gonzalez, who lives here with his wife, who is pregnant, and his young son, said if the proposal were to become law, he would not hesitate to pay whatever fee and sign up. "If it's true, I'm going to sign up no matter what," he said. "What is there to lose? If it's a trap and they send me back after three years -- hey, Mexico is only an hour and a half away. I can come right back."
But back in New York, Ivanhoe Ewen, a Jamaican immigrant who became a citizen last year, said the plan seemed too generous.
"It's a threat to the people who are here legally employed," he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about a proposal by President Bush to overhaul immigration laws misstated the number of green cards issued per year. It is 675,000 (140,000 is the number of employment-based visas). An article yesterday about the proposal also included an incorrect total from the Immigration Service. The article on Wednesday also referred imprecisely in some copies to the amount of time Mr. Bush proposes that undocumented workers could participate in a guest worker program. While the White House indeed did not specify the time, it did offer workers the option of three years, plus a chance to renew for three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (64%); HURRICANES (64%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



163 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO; 
A Tax Debate Full of Hazards For Democrats

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Twelve days before the Iowa caucuses, the battle for the Democratic nomination has become an increasingly furious debate over how to reverse President Bush's tax cuts, yet avoid the politically deadly charge that the Democrats are the party of tax increases. 
 Nowhere is this more striking than in the sudden scrambling of Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, who has advocated repealing all of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, including those for the middle class. Now, under heavy fire from his rivals, Dr. Dean is preparing a new tax plan that is widely expected to offer tax relief for the middle class. 
 Dr. Dean insisted on Wednesday that he had long intended to propose "additional tax reforms that will make the tax code fairer for working families and that will ensure that corporations and the wealthy pay their fair share." But the political pressures to do so are intense -- both from his opponents for the nomination and from the increasing imperative to reposition himself to the center for what he hopes will be a general election campaign.
Most immediately, Gen. Wesley K. Clark and Senators John Kerry, John Edwards and Joseph I. Lieberman, seeking to present themselves as the more centrist, electable alternatives to Dr. Dean, are hitting the issue hard in Iowa and New Hampshire. 
"I don't want to go back to being the old Democratic Party that doesn't get it," Mr. Kerry said in an interview on Wednesday. "I've been fighting all year to protect middle-class taxpayers." Mr. Kerry has advocated eliminating the tax cuts that benefit the wealthiest Americans, but preserving those for the middle class. His campaign is planning a new television spot in Iowa faulting others for not doing the same.
Adding to the pressure within the Democratic Party are the first maneuverings of the general election campaign. The Bush camp and its allies clearly look forward to campaigning against their eventual opponent as a throwback to the old tax-and-spend days of the party. Conservatives are already running advertisements and directing barbs along those lines at Dr. Dean. A new television advertisement in Iowa produced by the Club for Growth, a conservative group, shows a man and his wife denouncing Dr. Dean's "tax-hiking, government-expanding, latte-drinking" policies. 
Grover Norquist, an influential conservative strategist, said of Dr. Dean: "In order to be the baddest Democrat in the primary, he had to stake out the most radical pro-tax position. I don't intend to let him walk away from that in the general."
At the same time, the Bush administration is warning that rolling back the tax cuts would be a "huge mistake" that would jeopardize the economic recovery, as Treasury Secretary John W. Snow put it Wednesday.
Dr. Dean's move toward a middle-class tax relief at the urging of his advisers was first reported on Wednesday in The Boston Globe. In interviews on Wednesday, aides insisted that no decision had been made on the type of tax relief. 
Gina Glantz, a senior Dean adviser, said an announcement would come after President Bush unveiled his budget, next month. 
The debate over taxes is painful terrain for the Democratic Party, which is still haunted by the memory of the 1980's, when Republicans ran successfully against the Democrats as "taxers and spenders." Bill Clinton built his primary campaign in 1992 around the idea of the "forgotten middle class," including a middle-class tax cut and a new emphasis on fiscal responsibility. He argued that Democrats would not be returned to power until they regained the trust and loyalty of those voters.
But once Mr. Clinton was elected, he abandoned the middle-class tax cut and focused on cutting the deficit. The tax increases in his 1993 budget agreement took a heavy toll on Congressional Democrats, who lost their majorities in 1994. Still, by his second term, which saw the balanced budget act of 1997, some middle-class tax relief and a roaring economy, Mr. Clinton was widely credited with changing the Democratic Party's image as economic stewards.
"This is one of the big choices the party had to make to get out of the wilderness in 1992, and we have to make again to find our way back in 2004," said Bruce Reed, a former Clinton domestic policy adviser who is now the head of the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist group that has been critical of Dr. Dean. "Republicans have spent 30 years trying to convince America that all we want to do is raise people's taxes, and we'd be crazy to hand them that chance again."
General Clark tried this week to tie himself to part of that Clinton legacy when he unveiled a broad tax overhaul, which campaign officials said would essentially eliminate federal income taxes for a family of four with income of less than $50,000. His plan would cut taxes for other families with incomes up to $100,000 and raise taxes on Americans who make $1 million or more a year.
Representative Rahm Emanuel, an Illinois Democrat and former Clinton aide who supports General Clark, argued that only by moving to such broad new ideas for tax "reform" can the Democrats "get out of the straitjacket that Bush put you in."
In fact, the Bush tax cuts have been tricky for Democrats. Many in the party believe the cuts were fiscally unsound, responsible for big new deficits, skewed toward the rich and a painful check on federal spending for years to come. Yet many Democrats also know that calling for the rollback of tax cuts will be treated as a tax increase by their opponents.
Moreover, the Bush tax cuts do provide some relief to middle-income Americans -- in some cases only a few hundred dollars, but in other cases as much as $2,000 or more.
Of the major candidates, only Dr. Dean and Representative Richard A. Gephardt have advocated rolling back the entire tax cut. Mr. Gephardt, at the head of the pack with Dr. Dean in Iowa, argued that he would provide Americans with a more valuable form of relief -- guaranteed health insurance.
Dr. Dean has argued that whatever tax cut the average middle-class family received from the Bush administration is far outweighed by the additional costs of higher state and local taxes, reduced government services, higher health costs and the general drag of growing deficits. Much of the money from rolling back the tax cut would go to a new health care plan, he says, and the rest to balancing the budget.
Still his advisers have advocated providing some relief -- including the possibility of an income tax cut -- to the middle class to offset what they lose from the Bush rollback. 
Dr. Dean's rival campaigns were already scoffing at what Bill Buck, of the Clark campaign, called "the secret plan to provide tax relief." 
Mr. Buck added, "They say they won't release it until this pesky nomination fight is out of the way." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX REFORM (91%); TAX LAW (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); FAMILY (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); HIKING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



164 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Briefing The Democrats: Embracing Themes 

BYLINE:  By David M. Halbfinger (NYT)

 BODY:
 Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, beginning a two-day swing through New Hampshire to talk to workers about his economic plans, said he would create a White House "director of family economic security" to guard workers' pensions and savings, protect them from identify theft and ensure fair lending and housing. In Bedford, he unveiled a workers' bill of rights, a new umbrella for his proposals on taxes, health care, trade and workplace issues. Its 10 items are less a set of legislative measures than "a group of efforts and initiatives and ethics that we embrace," Mr. Kerry said. The New Hampshire trip is Mr. Kerry's last until the Jan. 19 caucuses in Iowa, where he is concentrating his efforts in hopes of an unexpectedly strong showing. 
 David M. Halbfinger (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (87%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); ETHICS (70%); FAIR LENDING (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



165 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Trials, Trials, Trials, and Then What? 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
With the trials of iconic corporate executives soon to begin -- Martha Stewart and WorldCom's Scott D. Sullivan, among others -- many investors are wondering if 2004 will be the beginning of the end of the corporate scandal season. Or will the new year simply be the end of the white-collar crime wave's beginning? 
 That we may be nearing a culmination is no doubt what most investors would prefer. A guilty plea expected soon from Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, may hearten those who think the worst is over. 
 In addition, with the stock market rising and the economy ebullient, many investors already seem less concerned about whether the executives running their companies are back on the straight and narrow. Rising stock prices, after all, hide a multitude of sins. 
"It is still a bull market for prosecutors because there are enough improprieties from years past that are bubbling up from the surface to keep us busy," said Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, who has led the regulatory charge against dubious practices in the financial industry in the last two years. "Having said that, I do sense a genuine shift in behavior in boardrooms, which would suggest that the number of gross abuses occurring right now may be on the decline." 
Almost no one would deny that Mr. Spitzer has good instincts on corporate fraud. But some investors and experts on white-collar fraud remain convinced that misdeeds at American businesses are not subsiding, and they expect them to continue this year at or above their recent pace. 
Carl W. Pergola, national director for litigation and fraud investigation services at BDO Seidman, the accounting firm, is one who forecasts no decline in fraud cases this year. "There is a greater awareness that fraud is out there now," he said. "We're finding that more employees are recognizing fraud. They're more willing to put their hand up and say we don't like the way this works."
One reason some investors expect corporate malfeasance to continue is that while legislation has curbed some of the more egregious anti-investor practices that sprang up in the 1990's, a powerful motivation remains for many executives to make results appear better than they actually are. That motivation: executive pay packages that are still largely tied to companies' financial results. 
"The temptation to burnish earnings or finesse them is there because expectations for stocks are so high, and once again there is a lot of money riding on this," said Bill Fleckenstein, head of Fleckenstein Capital in Seattle. "There is still a tremendous amount of pressure to 'make the number.' And regrettably, I think managements are still going to contemplate moving heaven and earth to do it."
Scandal-weary investors in the United States are understandably relieved at the recent lull in revelations of new misdeeds by domestic companies. Indeed, the latest large-scale corporate imbroglio, involving Parmalat, occurred at a comfortable distance from American borders. The company, whose executives stand accused of a huge accounting fraud, is based in Parma, Italy. 
But United States investors cannot afford to be too smug about shenanigans continuing to occur overseas. Because the nation's financial concerns are now global powerhouses, even foreign scandals are likely to involve American companies. 
Citigroup, for example, figures prominently in the Parmalat scandal. The bank apparently structured a loan for Parmalat in such a way that the interest paid on the debt did not show up as an expense for the company but as a return paid to an investor. That loan vehicle made Parmalat's borrowing costs seem lower than they actually were.
Earlier this week, Citigroup was named in a lawsuit filed by Parmalat investors. Citigroup has said that the deal was approved by Parmalat's auditors. 
And investigators continue to uncover fresh mutual fund malfeasance, with additional state regulators joining the hunt. Regulators have recently announced their pursuit of mutual fund cases in California, Texas and Colorado as well as New Hampshire and Florida. 
Investors may be weary of the damaging revelations about funds, but those who are investigating the industry say they have a great deal of work left to do. "We are acutely focused on every aspect of the sale and operation of mutual funds, not just late trading and market timing," said Stephen M. Cutler, director for enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Whether it be undisclosed revenue sharing, stale prices, failure to give breakpoint discounts, improper 12b-1 fees or other abuses, we're pursuing it. I expect that the year ahead will be one of the commission's busiest ever in the mutual fund area." 
Mr. Pergola, the fraud investigator at BDO Seidman, has been an accountant and a certified fraud examiner for more than a decade. He said he had seen a significant change recently in companies' reaction to fraud accusations made by employees or outside auditors. 
"It used to be that we would be trying to persuade companies to delve deeper, that where there's smoke there's fire," Mr. Pergola said. "But their view would be why would we incur the cost? What I'm finding now is, even the smallest misappropriation gets a response that is much more dramatic than it has ever been."
Mr. Pergola said that while the spotlight remained hot on public companies, people committing frauds might shift to private companies or to investment scams. "The guys who commit fraud are going to move to whatever game they can make money at," he said.
With executive pay packages still munificent at many companies, even those that have been poor performers, the temptation among managers to burnish results remains strong. Indeed, some investors argue that the lure may be greater this year than it has been, for several reasons. 
One, according to accounting experts, is that some of the tried-and-true tricks for gussying up financial results are no longer easy to put over on investors. So managers who are determined to make their earnings numbers have to resort to new methods. 
Stock options, for example, are not the one-stop earnings enhancer they once were. Although some technology companies still refuse to deduct the cost of options from their operations as an expense, investors have gotten wise to how this practice overstates a company's earnings. And a year from now, companies will be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to account for options as an employee cost, so many companies are already doing so. 
In addition, investors are much more aware about how companies use their pension accounts to bolster earnings, especially when stocks are rising. So using pension gains to burnish earnings is not as effective as it was during the late 1990's.
"There is a never-ending supply of new games and tricks to be trotted out as the old ones are revealed," said Gregory P. Taxin, chief executive of Glass, Lewis & Company, an institutional advisory firm in San Francisco. Mr. Taxin said he did not expect a decline in wrongdoing in 2004. Because corporate earnings rebounded nicely last year, managers whose pay is tied to further increases will be under some pressure to keep the profits' momentum up. And executives interested in keeping their stock prices at the high levels reached during last year's surging market -- and what executive is not? -- may also feel inclined to maintain earnings growth any way they can.
After all, if profits disappoint in the comingmonths, companies' shares will fall, depressing the value of stock options recently granted. In the wake of the bear market, executives are perhaps more keenly interested than ever in keeping share prices high. 
A powerful deterrent to future corporate misdeeds, some investors say, could come in the form of jail terms for some of the executives scheduled to come to trial shortly. If cases against former executives at Adelphia Communications, WorldCom, Tyco International and Credit Suisse First Boston lead to at least a few prison sentences, managers may be more likely to fight off any temptations to cut corners to make their earnings look better. 
Conversely, if the accused go free, executives may feel emboldened to act aggressively. More important, investors may lose faith in the American system of justice.
Byron R. Wien, senior investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, said it was important that executives be punished if they are guilty of wrongdoing. "You don't want to feel that some smart lawyers get them off on technicalities," he said. "Investors want to believe the system will protect them, that maybe they'll lose money but people won't get away with it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jury selection began Jan. 6.; Michael Rigas, left, and John J. Rigas.; E. KirkShelton; Walter A. Forbes Chart: "Save the Date"The trial of two former top executives at Tyco International, L. Dennis Kozlowski and Mark Swartz, is about to get some competition. A number of former executives at other companies are scheduled to go on trial this year. Jan. 20Martha StewartMartha Stewart Living OmnimediaAccused of securities fraud and obstructing justice related to trades in ImClone stock. Feb. 4Scott D. SullivanFormer chief financial officer, WorldComIs accused of lying, conspiracy, securities fraud and submitting false Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Feb. 9John J. Rigas and othersFounder of Adelphia CommunicationsMr. Rigas, his two sons and others are accused of looting more than $1 billion. Feb. 23Walter A. Forbes, E. Kirk SheltonFormer chief executive and president, CUC InternationalAre accused of accounting fraud that ultimately cost investors 19 billion. March 22Frank P. QuattroneFormer banker, Credit Suisse First BostonAfter a hung jury, Mr. Quattrone returns to the courtroom to face obstruction of justice charges. Aug. 23Richard M. ScrushyFormer chief executive, HealthSouthIs accused of orchestrating a $2.7 billion accounting fraud that involved many company employees. Oct. '04Enron Broadband executivesAre accused of lying about the value and abilities of a short-lived video-on-demand business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ETHICS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); JURY DUTY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (59%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; ETHICS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



166 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Exchange Said To Want Move On Grasso Pay

BYLINE:  By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
The board of the New York Stock Exchange plans to recommend that state and federal regulators pursue legal action against its previous board and Richard A. Grasso, its former chairman, over the size of his pay package, a person briefed on the situation said yesterday.
 The move heralds what could be a new front in the still-simmering debate over whether Mr. Grasso and the former directors violated a fiduciary duty to the exchange by agreeing to the compensation arrangement that awarded him $188 million in pay. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission, and Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, will assume responsibility for the investigation, regulators said yesterday, to determine whether a civil suit should be brought against Mr. Grasso and his former directors, many of whom are the former or current chief executives of Wall Street's largest investment banks. 
If Mr. Grasso agrees to return a substantial portion of his pay, such a suit would not be filed, this person said.
John S. Reed, the interim chairman of the stock exchange, has said that he expects Mr. Grasso to return as much as $150 million of his compensation and that he would be starting talks with Mr. Grasso in the coming days to discuss the matter.
Mr. Grasso resigned from the exchange under pressure in September. According to people who have been briefed on the investigation, Mr. Reed has made a series of strong arguments to Mr. Spitzer that he pursue the case. 
Indeed, by putting pressure on Mr. Grasso and the former directors, Mr. Reed and the board may well have an ultimate goal of forcing Mr. Grasso to settle. 
"There is a possibility that a civil claim could survive a motion to dismiss," said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor of securities law at Columbia University. "Bringing in Mr. Spitzer is an attempt to get further leverage over Mr. Grasso."
While Mr. Grasso has received the $139.5 million, he is owed another $48 million by the exchange, according to a second contract he signed, but he agreed to give up that additional compensation while still chief executive.
Since taking over, Mr. Reed has overhauled the exchange's board and completed a report into the origins of Mr. Grasso's pay. 
One conclusion of the report, made by Dan K. Webb, a former federal prosecutor, is that Mr. Grasso, in asking for $139.5 million in deferred compensation and pension payments early in 2003, was fearful that a new board would not grant him such a payout. 
Lawyers close to the exchange have said that such a conclusion would bolster the legal case against Mr. Grasso, in that it shows he was putting his interests ahead of the institution that he headed as chairman and chief executive. 
In doing so, New York prosecutors could claim Mr. Grasso violated his duty of loyalty to the exchange and could thus be sued to return the money to the Big Board.
Such a suit would be unprecedented, given the unique status of the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Spitzer's office intends to take the lead in pursuing legal action, citing a statute under New York's nonprofit corporation law, regulators who have been briefed on the investigation said. The law states that these corporations must award reasonable compensation to officers that is in line with the services that the executives provide. Neither Mr. Spitzer's office nor the S.E.C. would comment for the record.
If an investigation into Mr. Grasso's pay determines that an appropriate pay scale for him was much lower than his final reward, Mr. Spitzer's lawyers could claim that the $188 million that he was awarded was far in excess of the services that he provided as chairman and chief executive. 
Mr. Spitzer's office will receive a copy of the Webb report today. While lawyers there will use the report as a guidepost, they, in conjunction with S.E.C. lawyers, will conduct their own investigations, lawyers involved in the investigation said yesterday.
Among those likely to be questioned, they say, will be some of Wall Street and corporate America's most well-known chief executives who sat on the stock exchange's compensation committees from 1999 to 2003. 
Mr. Webb, as part of his investigation, has already questioned many of these executives. 
They include Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Goldman Sachs; Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive of Lehman Brothers; James E. Cayne, the chief executive of Bear Stearns; and Gerald M. Levin, the former chief executive of AOL Time Warner. 
Kenneth G. Langone, a personal friend of Mr. Grasso and a director of Home Depot, led these committees through June 2003. At one time he and Mr. Grasso served together on the Home Depot board.
If the suit is successful, these directors could be fined or banned from board service at any New York State nonprofit institution. Any case will have to prove that directors violated their fiduciary duty to the exchange's board in awarding the package to Mr. Grasso. It will also have to establish that directors, especially those on the compensation committee of the exchange from 1999 to 2003, violated a duty of care by failing to do the appropriate work in signing off on such payments.
The legal role of the S.E.C. in the investigation is less clear. 
While the board of the exchange has not technically violated any federal securities law or internal rules in awarding such a sum, there is a securities law statute that states that the commission could file an action if it could be proved that directors or officers of a self-regulatory organization abused their authority in any way. 
Violating New York State law could be seen as such an abuse, an official close to the investigation said yesterday. 
The S.E.C. could file its suit together with Mr. Spitzer and as a potential sanction against former directors could ban them from sitting on public company boards.
While Mr. Grasso has not spoken publicly since his resignation, people who have talked with him in recent weeks say he feels he has done nothing wrong in that he was never in the room when compensation committee members met to decide how much to pay him.
A telephone call to Mr. Grasso's lawyer, Kenneth Edgar, was not returned yesterday.
By bringing in Mr. Spitzer, backed by the S.E.C., the stock exchange is raising the stakes in its battle with Mr. Grasso. 
The suit against the exchange differs from suits brought by New York prosecutors against nonprofit institutions over excessive pay. 
While the stock exchange is a nonprofit institution, it belongs to its 1,366 members who own seats on the exchange, where they buy and sell stocks. 
As shareholders of a public company would in theory be harmed by an exorbitant payout to that company's chief executive, these members are the ones who could be said to have suffered from Mr. Grasso's pay. Thus, they would be the ones most likely to file a suit.
While the stock exchange members played a leading role in forcing Mr. Grasso's ouster, they have yet to file any collective legal claim against him.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, may face legal action. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



167 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. to Add to Enforcement by Reducing Its Clerical Staff 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Moving to bolster its dwindling enforcement staff, the Internal Revenue Service said yesterday that it would eliminate 6,700 mostly clerical jobs over the next two years and close its Memphis tax return processing center and use the savings to hire about 2,200 more auditors, criminal investigators and tax collectors.
 Mark W. Everson, the agency's commissioner, said that an increasing number of people were filing their tax returns electronically, reducing the need for clerks to open paper returns and enter the data into computers. 
 "One of the things I have done that is very distinct from the way things were done here is that the first thing we are trying to protect is the enforcement," so that it grows in size, Mr. Everson said. 
The I.R.S. has about 12,000 auditors, down a third from 1997, to examine returns filed by 130 million individuals and couples, as well as millions of complex returns filed by corporations, partnerships, pension plans and charities. 
The I.R.S. has fewer than 3,000 criminal investigators, and many of them have been assigned to pursuing the financial dealings of Al Qaeda and drug traffickers.
A severe drop in audits and a shortage of tax collectors have emboldened many tax cheats, officials at the agency have said.
In addition, new rules imposed by Congress in 1998 to protect taxpayers from zealous I.R.S. employees have added to the duties of auditors, investigators and collectors.
The I.R.S. budget last year was $9.8 billion, with about a third of that going to enforcement. That spending works out to be about half a cent for each dollar of tax collected.
"We did not get as much money for 2004 as we expected," Mr. Everson said. "We will be cut by a couple hundred million bucks by Congress and we have a 'higher than the administration asked for' pay raise for staff, and all that hurts us to about $400 million, the difference between what the president requested and Congress" approved, taking inflation and other increased costs into account.
"Altogether that puts pressure on us, so we have moved things around to the greatest degree possible to protect the enforcement" budget so that it continues to expand, he said.
How many auditors, investigators and collectors will be hired is uncertain because of pressure to hold down spending in the face of $500 billion annual budget deficits.
Colleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, said that she wished that the I.R.S. would negotiate with the union to phase out jobs through attrition, in part to maintain morale.
"Over all, half of the jobs are veteran longtime employees," but are still too young to be eligible for early buyouts or retirement, she said. "The majority of the employees affected are women and minorities in clerical positions who are not mobile and will just be out of work."
Ms. Kelley also said that closing the Memphis office was premature because a recent General Accounting Office report found that the shift to electronic filing of tax returns was going slower than expected. 
Mr. Everson said that the I.R.S. planned to close its Philadelphia center in 2007 and its Andover, Mass., center, sometime after that. The centers in Atlanta; Austin, Tex.; Fresno, Calif.; and Kansas City, Mo., are not scheduled to be closed. The centers in Covington, Ky., and Ogden, Utah, have been switched to handling returns, like those from businesses, not filed by individuals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX AUTHORITIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); AUDITS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%) Taxation; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hiring and Promotion; Shutdowns (Institutional); Computers and the Internet; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); AL-QAEDA (55%); NATIONAL TREASURY EMPLOYEES UNION (59%) Internal Revenue Service; National Treasury Employees Union

PERSON: MARK W EVERSON (79%) David Cay Johnston; Mark W (Comr) Everson; Colleen M Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (88%) TENNESSEE, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) Memphis (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004 



168 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 3348 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.+ means discounted tickets were at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.++ means discounted tickets were at the TKTS booth for last Friday only.

Broadway

+ "ANNA IN THE TROPICS." That slowly rotating ceiling fan isn't the only thing stirring the air in Nilo Cruz's earnestly poetic play, which won last year's Pulitzer Prize for drama. Every breath seems to emerge as a sigh, every word as a longing for the unobtainable. In evoking the lost Cuban-American world of a Florida cigar factory in 1929, Mr. Cruz has created a work as wistful and affectingly ambitious as its characters. "Anna in the Tropics" reaches for that corner of artistic eternity occupied by Chekhov's plays of yearning. But while there's warmth and sincerity in the performances, especially those of Jimmy Smits and Daphne Rubin-Vega as adulterous lovers, Emily Mann's straightforward staging does not show off Mr. Cruz's sometimes clumsy lyricism to its best advantage (2:20). Royale Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m., Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $81.25, with a limited number of $21.25 student rush tickets at the box office on day of performance (Ben Brantley).

* "AVENUE Q." The inspired brainchild of the songwriters Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, this canny toy chest of a musical takes its stylistic cues from "Sesame Street," from its cheery urban set to its singing puppets of assorted colors and dispositions. And in doing so it becomes the first mainstream musical since "Rent" to coo with such seductive directness to theatergoers on the fair side of 40 in their own language, in which irony is less a mind-set than a loosely worn style. The show applies the coaxing, learning-is-fun attitude of children's educational television to the R-rated situations of postcollegiate life in the big city. Featuring a pitch-perfect ensemble of live performers and oversize hand puppets, "Avenue Q" is to "Sesame Street" what Mel Brooks's "Producers" is to vintage Broadway musicals: a connoisseur's tribute to what it only seems to send up (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $91.25, with a limited number of $21.25 rush tickets available to everyone by lottery at the theater at 5:30 p.m. for the evening show and at 11:30 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

+ "THE BOY FROM OZ." Hugh Jackman's shoulders must ache like the devil when he wakes up in the morning. This able-bodied, infinitely appealing young man is spending most of his nights engaged in some painfully heavy lifting that no shoulders, no matter how broad, should be asked to attempt. That's what happens when you put an indisputably authentic star like Mr. Jackman at the center of an indisputably bogus show like "The Boy From Oz," the bathetic musical biography of the Australian entertainer and songwriter Peter Allen, directed by Philip Wm. McKinley. Were it not for Mr. Jackman, there would be no reason to recommend this backstage, back-story look at show business, which makes the movie of "Valley of the Dolls" seem like "Children of Paradise." But let it be said that the electric Mr. Jackman, best known for the "X-Men" movies, never looks as if he's even thinking about shrugging this soggy cardboard world of a show off his shoulders (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

* "CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF." In all honesty, Anthony Page's revival of Tennessee Willams's drama of familial lies and loneliness warrants a star for only its second act. That's when Ned Beatty takes over as the patriarchal Big Daddy, in the style of a cockfighting rooster just released from his cage and rarin' to ruffle feathers. As long as he rules the stage, the production exhales the galvanizing honesty that is the elusive holy grail for Big Daddy, as it was for the playwright who invented him. Otherwise, the predominant aroma is more like a magnolia-scented air freshener. Embodying the erotic life force called Maggie the Cat, Ashley Judd brings to mind a self-conscious pupil in an elocution class. As her alcoholic husband, Brick, Jason Patric can seem overly self-anesthetized. But when he's one on one with Mr. Beatty, he rises to the challenge. Margo Martindale is first rate as Big Daddy's sad, silly wife (2:45). Music Box, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $86.25 (Brantley).

*+ "I AM MY OWN WIFE." Doug Wright's one-actor play, with a thrillingly accomplishedperformance by Jefferson Mays and a diamond-sharp production directed by Moises Kaufman, has made a rewarding transition to Broadway. The play tells a terrific story based on a real person, Charlotte von Mahlsdorf (ne Lothar Berfelde), a soft-spoken but tenaciously gender-bending biological man who died in 2002 at 74. Her lifelong obsession -- Mahlsdorf preferred to be thought of as female -- was the preservation of furniture, especially from the 1890's, and other household relics like Victrolas and gramophones. Her devotion to her astonishing collection, with which she turned her home into a museum, gave focus and motivation to a life whose grandest achievement was that it proceeded to its natural end. The play is largely about Charlotte's enduring the cruel repressions of the Nazis and the Communists, and her harrowing tales of survival through the eras of the Gestapo and the Stasi are nothing short of breathtaking. Ah, but are they credible? That also becomes an issue in the play, which very subtly but, in the end, quite powerfully makes a case for the necessity of storytelling in our lives (2:30). Lyceum, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $86.25, with $20 student and teacher tickets at box office the day of show (Bruce Weber).

+ "NEVER GONNA DANCE." In a season of musical klutzburgers, this friendly, flavor-free musical -- based on "Swing Time," the 1936 Astaire-Rogers movie stands out as an inoffensive, gracefully danced and pleasantly sung diversion, a quieter answer to the revival of "42nd Street." But that's about as lavish as praise can be for this spiceless production. Like "Swing Time," this show celebrates dance as a love potion and is set to the swoon-making melodies of Jerome Kern. What it lacks are the sharp individuality and unconditional belief in its own enchanted world that make "Swing Time" feel so vital today. Noah Racey and Nancy Lemenager are the likable young performers who have been given the impossible task of filling Fred and Ginger's shiny patent slippers (2:30). Broadhurst, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $71.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

+ "THE RETREAT FROM MOSCOW." Brrr. An early, unforgiving and highly symbolic wintriness hangs over this domestic drama by William Nicholson. And for this weary study of the death of a marriage, which stars Eileen Atkins and John Lithgow, the designer John Lee Beatty has devised a whopping scenic metaphor: the walls and screens of the set have been garlanded with patterns of bleak, bare branches. It's not only the trees that are skeletal in this stark production, directed rather listlessly by Daniel Sullivan. From the opening scene, strewn with poetic quotations and historical allusions, the characters show few of the signs of organic life that warm a theatergoer's hopes. Despite the participation of the estimable Dame Eileen and Mr. Lithgow as the disaffected spouses and Ben Chaplin as their son, the overall effect is of three talented performers trying to keep afloat in flat dishwater (2:15). Booth, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 and $81.25 (Brantley).

*+ "URINETOWN." This fiercely loopy and self-conscious satire of the social conscience of the musical theater is both exuberantly entertaining and, in the context of recent events, a defiant statement on behalf of American creativity and vibrancy. The story is ridiculous spoofery: the population of a city that has been desiccated by a drought revolts against the corrupt alliance of business and government that controls public toilets. And with a rousing score by Mark Hollmann, a ribald and tongue-in-cheek book by Greg Kotis, hilariously referential choreography by John Carrafa and gregarious staging by John Rando, the show couldn't be more ludicrously enjoyable. Beneath its cartoonish surface, it tiptoes thematically along the edge of the grave issues now consuming all of us. It presents innocent people victimized by conscienceless evil and, in the end, lambastes the presumption and wastefulness of people who don't recognize that they are privileged. "Urinetown" is equal parts visceral entertainment jolt and lingering provocation and simply the most gripping and galvanizing theater experience in town (2:10). Henry Miller, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 and $95; a limited number of $25 tickets are at the box office three hours before each show (Weber).

*+ "WONDERFUL TOWN." Having established herself as the first lady of musical tragedy -- winning Tony Awards for Stephen Sondheim's "Passion" and a somber "King and I" -- Donna Murphy has crossed to the sunny side of the street. And in this captivating revival of Leonard Bernstein's musical love poem to Manhattan, she gives one of the most dazzlingly accomplished performances you're ever likely to see. As the writer Ruth Sherwood, the role that Rosalind Russell slayed 'em with in 1954, Ms. Murphy blithely juggles assorted gleaming styles without ever breaking character. If much of Kathleen Marshall's staging of this tale of dewy sisters from Ohio in New York isn't up to Ms. Murphy, well, what would be? Jennifer Westfeldt is charming as Ruth's boy-magnet of a sister. And the orchestra, under the direction of Rob Fisher, is superb, giving ebullient life to Bernstein's lighthearted city symphony of a score (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $56 and $101 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

* "AUNT DAN AND LEMON." A luscious, deeply disturbing revival of Wallace Shawn's 1985 play, directed by Scott Elliott for the New Group. Portraying the show's narrator, Lemon, a sickly woman transfixed by recollections of an English childhood during the Vietnam War, the superb Lili Taylor must say some appalling things -- the sort of statements that had one elderly man in the audience exclaiming, "For shame!" Lemon argues, among other things, that the Nazis weren't such bad guys. Yet Ms. Taylor remains calm and quietly gleeful as she describes her relationship as a little girl with an American scholar at Oxford University, a friend of her parents named Danielle, played with both voluptuous glamour and Yankee forthrightness by Kristen Johnston. Lemon's initiation into Dan's coldblooded worldview is the seduction that shapes the plot. It is Lemon's courtship of the audience while evoking this bizarrely sentimental education that makes Mr. Shawn's play such a mesmerizing experience (1:50). Clurman Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; no performances tomorrow through Monday; reopens Tuesday at the Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Mondays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $50, with $25 college student rush tickets available at the box office one hour before the performance (Brantley).

"CAROLINE, OR CHANGE." A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner ("Angels in America") and Jeanine Tesori ("Thoroughly Modern Millie"), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through "Caroline," from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score, which avoids anthems of uplift. The tone throughout is evenhanded, slightly distanced compassion as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. The first-rate cast includes Veanne Cox, as Caroline's uptight employer; the lovely Anika Noni Rose, as Caroline's daughter; and the refreshingly direct Harrison Chad, as the motherless boy who idolizes Caroline. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. In ambition and achievement "Caroline" handily tops this season's new musicals. But it is almost too good to be good (2:35). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. Added performance Sunday at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $70, with a limited number of $15 tickets available at the box office 30 minutes before the performance (Brantley).

+ "THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS -- THE MUSICAL!" The musical is the happy narcissist of theater, and parody is the best kind of narcissism. So many of today's musicals strut fancy sets and special effects. A good parody needs smart writers and winning performers: "The Musical of Musicals -- The Musical!," a York Theater production, has four winning performers, and two of them are the composer Eric Rockwell and the lyricist Joanne Bogart. Taking their plot straight from corny old melodrama, they offer spoof in the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Kander and Ebb. The Jerry Herman segment is the weakest because his work is the simplest; the pretensions of Lord Lloyd Webber make a better target. The other three are good, zany fun. They have the joie de vivre we want from a musical (1:40). The Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 868-4444. Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2:30 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $50 (Margo Jefferson).

+ "NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH." The list of losses runs long in John Kani's deeply felt portrait of emotional limbo in post-apartheid South Africa. Mr. Kani portrays Sipho, a 63-year-old librarian who gives newly abject resonance to Milton's line about those who "only stand and wait." Preparing for the funeral of his brother, an exiled hero of the anti-apartheid movement, Sipho counts the ways he has been cheated by life. But while there are harrowing accounts of political murders, Mr. Kani is more interested in tallying the quieter casualties of an inhuman social system and a culture in flux. Staged by Janice Honeyman, the play is on one level a conventional domestic melodrama, filled with staggered revelations of family secrets. But within this creaky structure burns an illuminating fire of authentic guilt and pain. With Esmeralda Bihl as Sipho's tradition-rattling niece from abroad and the excellent Warona Seane as his loving but restless daughter (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 (Brantley).

* "THE REGARD EVENING." Time stands still for no clown. Or so it would seem from the second half of this delightful production from the Signature Theater Company, which offers a reprise of Bill Irwin's "Regard of Flight" (from 1982) and appends a postscript that regards "Regard" with the hindsight of two decades. In Act II middle age lands like an anvil upon Mr. Irwin, as his back stiffens and his steps become cautious. Which would be a depressing spectacle if you hadn't seen him before the intermission, when he sprang, slithered, bent and undulated like a human hybrid of Gumby and a Slinky toy. This is one old fool who can still deliver the antic goods as he did 20 years ago. Assisted by his original comic accomplices, Doug Skinner and Michael O'Connor, Mr. Irwin is still blissfully reminding audiences of how that exasperating thing called life is always tripping you up (1:35). Signature Theater Company, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 3 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Brantley).

Last Chance

+ "FRAME 312." Conspiracy theorists' alert! In Keith Reddin's speculative and rueful new play, the lone gunman explanation for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy is dismissed as if it were self-evidently contrary to fact. But that's just the beginning; it is the suggestion of the play that the crime and its cover-up have curdled the American experience. The title refers to a crucial moment in the famous Zapruder film of the Kennedy murder. And Mr. Reddin has concocted a cloak-and-dagger series of flashbacks to 1963 to suggest that the original film has never been seen by most Americans. Instead, the play sets up the film as a metaphor and claims that the public version is doctored, the proof of which is in the unlikely possession of a widow named Lynette in suburban New Jersey who has two troubled grown children. Mr. Reddin is ambitious in his social commentary, but the particulars of his vision are hazy, and what we are to make of the relationship between the past and the present or the Zapruder tape and the problems of Lynette's family remains uncertain (2:00). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $45, with a limited number of $10 student rush tickets at the box office 30 minutes before the performance (Weber).

++ "THE LAST LETTER." The human capacity for cruelty and oppression is likely to be more and more in the news as the interrogation and subsequent trial of Saddam Hussein proceed. In the meantime, a quieter reminder is available in the the estimable Kathleen Chalfant's performance of this monologue taken from "Life and Fate" by the Russian novelist Vasily Grossman. The text of the "The Last Letter" is a verbatim transcript of Chapter 18, in which a Jewish doctor, consigned by the Nazis to a ghetto in a small Ukrainian city and awaiting an inevitable massacre, writes to her grown son about her fate. Onstage the piece runs only about an hour, but as you might imagine, the emotions are excruciating. The letter is, in part, simple and full of news and description, and it is written with the you-are-there skill of anaccomplished journalist, which Grossman was. But it is also a quietly grievous lament, expressing awful fear and loneliness, the helplessness of the oppressed and a combination of dumbfoundedness and rage at the oppressors. In Ms. Chalfant's understated reading, the character has a distraught elegance and the text considerable power (1:10). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m. Free symposium after tomorrow's matinee with Ms. Chalfant, the playwright Tony Kushner, the psychiatrist and writer Richard Bruckman, and the New York Times reporter Chris Hedges.Tickets: $60 (Weber).

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Lovette George, Joanne Bogart and Craig Fols in the parody "Musical of Musicals." (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Kathleen Chalfant in the one-woman play "The Last Letter." (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); MUSIC (68%); SONG WRITING (63%); CITY LIFE (62%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



169 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 1951 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. The recently reopened Arthur Ross Hall of Meteorites, with the 34-ton Ahnighito meteorite, the world's largest, on display. "Petra: Lost City of Stone," with objects from the ancient Jordanian city, as well as 19th-century drawings and prints; through July 6; timed tickets to the exhibition are $19; students and 60+, $16.50; children under 12, $13. "Vietnam: Journeys of Body, Mind and Spirit," an exhibition on Vietnamese life with photography, sculpture, clothing and other items; through March 7. "Seasons of Life and Land: Arctic National Wildlife Refuge," a display of more than 40 large-format photographs by Subhankar Banerjee; through March 7. "Living in America: The Haitian Experience," a celebration of Haitian culture. Tomorrow through January. Tomorrow features opening-ceremony performances by the Dance Theater of Tonel Lakay and the Grammy Award-winning artist Wyclef Jean, at 1 p.m.; a lecture by Henry Frank, 1:45 p.m.; and a performance by the Ibo Dancers of Haiti and Paulette Saint-Lot, 3 p.m. In the Imax Theater, "Volcanoes of the Deep Sea," documenting expeditions to the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, and "India: Kingdom of the Tiger," a docudrama about a hunting expedition by Jim Corbett, an early-20th-century writer and conservationist. Tickets to one Imax feature, including museum admission, are $19; students and 60+, $12.50; children under 12, $10. General museum suggested admission: $12; students and 60+, $9; 12 and younger, $7; under 2, free. Combination ticket, including museum and Rose Center admission and the Hayden Planetarium space show: $22; students and 60+, $16.50; 12 and younger, $13; under 2, free. Museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., except the first Friday of most months, when the Rose Center is open until 8:45 for "Starry Nights"; tonight the Winard Harper Sextet is featured. Information: amnh.org, (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200.

MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. This preserved late-Federal brick house with a Greek Revival interior, once owned by Seabury Tredwell, a wealthy hardware dealer, was built in 1832. The house holds the original furniture, clothing and personal articles of the Tredwells, who lived there for nearly 100 years. Self-guided tours are available on weekdays; guided tours on Saturdays and Sundays. Current exhibitions: "The Tredwells: A Family Tree in Pictures," through Jan. 30; "The Changing Silhouette of Fashion: Six Decades of Tredwell Costumes," through Feb. 16. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; members and children under 12, free. Reservations and information: (212) 777-1089.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. The museum collects, preserves and presents material related to the city's history. "Glass and Glamour: Steuben's Modern Moment, 1930-1960" captures a pivotal era in 20th-century design when Steuben Glass embraced the vocabulary of modernism and linked its image to the glamour of New York City; through April 25. "Big and Green: Toward Sustainable Architecture in the 21st Century" explores large-scale development that is simultaneously energy-efficient, healthful for its inhabitants and economically viable; through Jan. 19. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for registered groups only; Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $4; families, $12. Information: (212) 534-1672.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other media, including drawings, posters and photographs. "A Celebration of George Balanchine: Selected Television Work," through March 7. "Hello, I'm Johnny Cash," a screening series covering the country singer's career, in four parts; through Jan. 25, Part Four: "The Man in Black (1970-present)." Presented with a companion radio listening series, "The Man in Black: Johnny Cash on Radio," through Feb. 1. Screenings Tuesdays through Sundays at 2 p.m., and Thursdays at 6 p.m. "Backstage at CBS-TV's Chronoscope: A Portrait of the Post-World War II Era," an exhibition of photographs from 1951-55, through January. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $8; children 12 and younger, $5. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN, Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. "The Language of Native American Baskets: From the Weaver's View," 200 baskets on display through Jan. 9, 2005. "Continuum: 12 Artists," through November. "Legends of Our Times: Native Ranching and Rodeo Life on the Plains and the Plateau," through March 7. Works by the artist Richard Ray Whitman, on view through Feb. 1. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 514-3700.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. "Recovery: The World Trade Center Recovery Operation at Fresh Kills," an exhibition of more than 50 photographs; through March 21. "The Birds of Central Park: Audubon's Watercolors," 431 original watercolors created by John James Audubon (1785-1851) for "The Birds of America" (1827-38); through Feb. 15."Children at Risk: Protecting New York City's Youths, 1653-2003," paintings, prints, maps and documents from the society's collection, as well as those from the Children's Aid Society and the New York City Municipal Archives; through April 4. "Ann Zane Shanks: Behind the Lens," photography exhibition; through Feb. 29. "Home Sewn: Three Centuries of Stitching History," an exhibition about sewing and the crafts trades from the 18th to the 20th centuries; through April 18. Related events: sewing demonstrations, Saturdays from 1 to 5 p.m. in January. Tomorrow, the Smithtown Quilters. The Henry Luce III Center for the Study of American Culture is a permanent gallery on the fourth floor. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; children and 62+, $5; 12 and younger, free. Information: (212) 873-3400.

EVENTS

New York City

WATSON ADVENTURES. Tomorrow at 5:30 p.m., "Met Madness 1," a scavenger hunt for adults, inside the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Fee: $30, including museum admission. Meeting place and other information: (212) 726-1529.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 40 Lincoln Center Plaza. "The Enduring Legacy of George Balanchine," a multimedia exhibition with photographs, letters, costumes, set models, videotapes and other items, celebrating the 100th anniversary of the choreographer's birth. Through April 24. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; closed Sundays and Mondays. Information: (212) 870-1630.

GRAND CENTRAL HOLIDAY TRAIN SHOW, New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex at Grand Central Terminal. Includes a model of the terminal. Free. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Through Jan. 19. Information: (212) 878-0106.

GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY, Fifth Avenue at 25th Street, Brooklyn. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Baseball Legends of Brooklyn's Green-Wood Cemetery," a free lecture and slide show by the author Peter Nash; information, (718) 768-7300. Also tomorrow, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., Christmas tree recycling and mulch giveaway, sponsored partly by the Brooklyn Botanic Garden; information: (718) 623-7250.

WALKING TOURS

New York City

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS. Today at 1 p.m., "The Financial District" traces the development of Wall Street, meeting in front of Trinity Church, Wall Street and Broadway. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "The Upper East Side," covering residential, religious and commercial sites of the neighborhood, meeting at the General Sherman statue, northwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. Sunday at 1 p.m., the Bowery, passing the former saloons, flophouses and dance halls of the area, meeting at the black cube at Astor Place, East Village. Fee for each tour: $12; students and 63+, $10. Information: (212) 439-1090.

SHOREWALKERS. Sunday at 10 a.m., a Bronx walk, taking in Orchard Beach and City Island, meeting at the Pelham Bay stop of the No. 6 train. Fee, $3. Information: (212) 874-1067.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. Four tours on Sunday; at 12:15 p.m., "A Salute to Alexander Hamilton" visits the financial district, meeting on the northwest corner of Broadway and Pine Street; at 2:15 p.m., "Lively Little Italy," with stops at the old Police Headquarters, Ferrara's Bakery and other historic sites, meeting on the northwest corner of Canal and Baxter Streets; at 4 p.m., "Marvelous Murray Hill," strolling past the Morgan Library and the Sniffen Court Historic District, meeting on the northeast corner of Madison Avenue and 34th Street; at 5:30 p.m., "Splendid Grand Central Terminal" includes stops at Vanderbilt Hall and the Whispering Gallery, meeting on the northeast corner of Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street. Fee for each, $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.

HARLEM YOUR WAY! Tomorrow at noon, "Sights and Sounds Walking Tour of Harlem" visits landmarks and cultural sites. Sunday at 10:15 a.m., "The Beauty of Harlem Gospel" visits historical streets and a local church, ending with an optional lunch. Both meet at 129 West 130th Street. Fee for each, $25. Information: (212) 690-1687.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY. Sunday at 11 a.m., "Along the River's Edge: Second Annual Tour of New and Old Waterfront Development in Lower Manhattan," meeting at the River Project, Pier 26 and North River, at North Moore Street. Fee: $15; members, $12. Information: (212) 935-3960.

STREET SMARTS, N.Y. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., "Greenwich Village Past and Present" features the cultural history of the area, meeting at the Washington Arch. Tomorrow at 6 p.m., "Ghostly Greenwich Village," meeting at the Manhattan Arch. Sunday at 2 p.m., "Manhattan Murder Mysteries" explores famous crime scenes; meeting in front of the Park Central Hotel on Seventh Avenue, at 56th Street. Fee for each, $10. Information: (212) 969-8262.

ALL POINTS TOURS. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., "World Trade Center Site: Ground Zero," with stops at the Winter Garden, St. Paul's Chapel and buildings under construction, meeting in front of the Stage Door Deli, northeast corner of Church and Vesey Streets, Lower Manhattan. Tomorrow at 4:30 p.m., a look at holiday train displays and decorations along Fifth Avenue, meeting in front of the New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex in Grand Central Terminal. Fee for each: $12; 60+, $10. Information: (718) 273-1813.

DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1:30 p.m., "Winter Wonderland in Greenwich Village," with stops at sites associated with noted artists, writers and musicians, meeting at the Washington Arch. Fee, $15. Information: (888) 377-4455.

METRO TOUR SERVICE. Today through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour of historic sites, landmarks and ethnic groups in Brooklyn in the Fort Greene, Clinton Hill and Brooklyn Heights neighborhoods. Sunday at 10 a.m., a tour of downtown Brooklyn with a stop for gospel music. Both meet in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, Downtown Brooklyn. Fee for each, $25. Information: (718) 789-0430.

RECREATION

Manhattan

FRED LeBOW CLASSIC, Central Park. A five-mile race that begins Sunday at 9:30 a.m. on the 102nd Street Tranverse. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration fee, $20; members, $14; ages 18 and younger and 62+, $10. Race-day registration, $30; members, $20; 18 and younger and 62+, $12. Information: (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WALKING TOURS -- Saluting Alexander Hamilton in financial district. (Photo by Library of Congress) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FAMILY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); WILDLIFE (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (73%); DANCERS (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); DANCE (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (76%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (90%); ARCTIC (76%); JORDAN (73%); VIET NAM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



170 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Images From the New Deal, Full of Hardship and Hope

BYLINE:  By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
Which tells us more about history: drawing or photography? That is one question brought to mind by "Depression-Era Prints and Photographs From the W.P.A. and F.S.A.," an exhibition at the New York Public Library. The two-part show was organized by Margaret Glover, curator of the library's print collection, and Devon Cummings, curator of its photography collection, who both drew on the library's own extensive archives of works produced under the New Deal programs of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 The differences between the programs that supported printmakers and the ones that employed photographers in the 1930's and early 40's are worth noting. While printmakers working for the Works Progress Administration's graphic arts division were free to pursue whatever aesthetic or themes they wanted, photographers had more specific assignments. 
 Roy E. Stryker, who directed photography projects for the Farm Security Administration and other agencies, hired photographers not to make art but to document and publicize the need for rural assistance programs. Stryker's photographers, including Walker Evans, Dorothea Lange, John Collier and others, produced some of the most memorable works in the history of American photography. But their initial charge was essentially to create New Deal propaganda.
It may seem paradoxical, then, that part of what makes the exhibition's 73 photographs so compelling is how enigmatic they are. Among pictures taken in the Northeast by Lange, Collier, Jack Delano, Arthur Rothstein, Russell Lee and others are no images of calamity: no lynchings, riots or crime scenes and few portrayals of obvious economic privation or social oppression.
Mostly what you have are glimpses of ordinary and apparently not unbearable life: farms and farmers; families at home or out strolling; high school students chatting on a downtown sidewalk in Amsterdam, N.Y.; migrant workers and factory workers, none seeming obviously dehumanized by their jobs; commuters on trains and at Grand Central Terminal; new flat-roofed cinder-block homes in a New Jersey housing development; and worker housing in older company towns. If you had only these photographs and no wall text or labels to go by, you might not realize that they were images of a nation in crisis.
Many of the photographs are accompanied by labels with information copied from notes written on the backs of the pictures. It adds meaning to know that this farmer has suffered a catastrophic flood, or that that powerfully handsome man is "Mr. Miller -- minister and only Negro farmer in the submarginal area of Rumsey Hill, N.Y.," or that the young woman on a sofa reading the newspaper to her young daughter is about to be relocated.
Still, whatever additional information may be provided, the photographs have in general a curiously distant, meditative mood. They are magnetically absorbing to look at, but more for the curiosity and nostalgia they make you feel than for any social urgency. The greatest historical resonance is in the appearance of things: how people once dressed, combed their hair and carried themselves; what cars, stores and neighborhoods looked like. The images are at once utterly specific and hauntingly otherworldly.
Compared with the photographs, the W.P.A. prints express social interests far more explicitly, variously and heavy-handedly. Hanging in alphabetical order (by artist name), works by 56 of the 80 printmakers supported by the W.P.A. in New York City abound in images of hard labor, urban ennui and rural desolation. But there are also people at leisure: commuters playing bridge on the train; bohemian vacationers relaxing on a Catskills bungalow's front porch; jazz musicians jamming in a claustrophobic bar; stagehands resting behind the scenes of a production of "Porgy and Bess."
Rendered by all sorts of methods -- often technically accomplished -- and in many different styles, including Social Realism, Expressionism, Cubism and Surrealism, the prints collectively produce a panoramic vision of a society struggling with psychological as well as economic depression but still bristling with nervous energy.
One of the most peculiarly suggestive prints is a lithograph by Phil Bibel that translates the typical Social Realist subject of swimmers leaping from riverside docks into a semi-abstract composition of Cubist geometry and Surrealistic biomorphism.
It's not a great work of art, but the collision between the old swimming hole and the newfangled art forms speaks volumes about the complexities and contradictions of urban modernity.
Other remarkable prints include Louis Lozowick's elegantly formal rooftop view of workers below lugging an enormous I-beam; M. Lois Murphy's wood engraving of a woman at a lunch counter, rendered with a crystalline geometry and radiant white hatch marks that make her look like a futuristic robot; and Ann Nooney's "Closing Time," a darkly colored, Hoppersque lithograph of a store's proprietor pausing under the light above his back door.
Images like these don't capture the momentary actuality of things the way photographs do, but they tell much about what people were feeling: determination, grief, euphoria, agitation, longing. Those feelings, too, are part of history.

"Depression-Era Prints and Photographs From the W.P.A. and F.S.A." is at the New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089, through Jan. 17.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Mrs. Estelle Wilson, who owned a one-acre place in Learysville, N.Y.," a photograph by Jack Delano, in "Depression-Era Prints and Photographs From the W.P.A. and F.S.A.," at the New York Public Library. (Photographs from the New York Public Library) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); LIBRARIES (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); FACTORY WORKERS (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



171 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Weekender Norfolk, Conn.

BYLINE:  By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
WITH elevations above 1,700 feet, among the highest in Connecticut, that produce frigid winter temperatures, Norfolk seems to enter hibernation once cold weather arrives. Many weekenders would not have it any other way.
 "The snow turns the town into a very cozy place. Winter in Norfolk is a great chance to reconnect with people after a hectic summer," said Louise Davis, an interior designer who divides her time between an apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and a gray-shingled four-bedroom lodge in Norfolk, which her grandfather built as a summer home in 1900. 
 "People turn to their own resources," she added, "whether it's writing, painting or making music." 
Indeed, many of the town's 2,200 full- and part-time residents (about 30 percent of them weekenders, according to town officials) are creative types -- artists, designers, publishers, painters, photographers and writers. They include Jonathan Galassi, the poet; Starling Lawrence, editor in chief at W. W. Norton; and Anne Garrels, a National Public Radio correspondent.
And they are likely to be attracted by the same things that drew Ezra Pound and Mark Twain to Norfolk years ago: minimal development in an almost-Adirondack setting. These days some 24,300 acres, or 80 percent of the town, are protected, including the former Ellen Battell Stoeckel estate, now the summer home of the Yale School of Music and the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival.

The Scene
 Norfolk's blend of high culture and the great outdoors, coupled with enough fanciful old buildings to earn it 24 entries in the National Register of Historic Places, has bred a fierce loyalty among weekenders. They revel in the notion of the town as a beautifully preserved secret, with little obvious social hubbub and just beyond the two-hour drive that is the limit for many owners of second homes.
"There is a real commitment to take care of the community, shared by people who live here full-time and those who come for summers," said Kate Wenner, a New York novelist who in 1980 bought an eight-room 1792 farmhouse on just over an acre near the Massachusetts border. 
The town center consists of a restaurant, pizza parlor and liquor store; an independently owned convenience store, a place to reserve out-of-town newspapers, is opening this month.
On Friday and Saturday nights in the summer, townspeople and tourists alike enjoy picnic dinners on the lawns of the Battell estate before attending concerts in the music festival's cedar and redwood "shed." Since 1899, artists like Sibelius, Rachmaninoff and Caruso have journeyed to Norfolk; last summer, the festival featured the Tokyo String Quartet. Across the street towers the Greenwoods Theater, a renovated vaudeville house that presents plays each summer in addition to classic movies. 
Norfolk winters are considerably quieter. Ms. Davis presides over the women-only Isabella Eldridge Club, which requires members to give monthly lectures on topics like Islamic architecture or Russian literature. It is named for the founder of the Norfolk Library, a 26,000-volume, 115-year-old barrel-vaulted Romanesque-style icon designed by the Hartford architect George Keller. The library, whose russet-colored shingles overlap like the scales of a fish, is also part art gallery and concert space and lecture hall; it is the town's intellectualfulcrum. 

Pros
For the nature-minded, the abundance of open land in Norfolk means that there are miles of hiking trails that lend themselves in winter to cross-country skiing and snowshoeing.
In addition to locally protected land, the town has three state parks. The windswept Dennis Hill park contains the sagging remains of the 240-acre former estate of Frederick Shepard Dennis, a New York physician who gave the property to Connecticut in 1935. Today, it is a popular spot for picnics. In the Campbell Falls park at the northern edge of town, the Whitney River tumbles 60 feet over two cascades. At Haystack Mountain, whose entrance is just a short walk from the town center, hikers can bound up steps carved into the rocks to a 1,677-foot summit. A 34-foot cylindrical tower, set to reopen in the spring, has sweeping views of the Berkshire foothills, blanketed with hemlock, birch and mountain laurel.
On summer days, expect to see bathers at Tobey Pond, Norfolk's motorboat-free municipal swimming area, though many residents prefer their own private lakes. At nearby Wood Creek Pond, meanwhile, a state-owned boat ramp is an ideal spot to begin fishing trips for pickerel and carp. In the winter, the pond freezes for much of the season and is popular with ice skaters. The Norfolk Curling Club, which has its own facility, also draws crowds in the colder months.
Many of Norfolk's homes were built as summer retreats for wealthy Hartford and New York families whose descendants continue to return to town. Among them is Michael Gates Gill, a communications writer from Manhattan who also owns a seven-bedroom, four-and-a-half-bathroom 1790 house on 1.2 acres, which was once the town's general store. 
Mr. Gill, whose family has been going to Norfolk since the 18th century -- including his father, the late Brendan Gill, who was a critic at The New Yorker -- says the town won't satisfy a weekender seeking the kind of bold-faced celebrity associated with Long Island's East End. 
"There is no status in Norfolk, and we respect that you are not here for fame and fortune," said Mr. Gill, who remembered that as a child he threw apples at Ezra Pound at Tobey Pond. 
"Norfolk is hard to pronounce and even harder to reach, so it sort of selects itself out," Mr. Gill said, referring to the preference among both weekenders and locals to say the town's name as NOR-fork.
Yet even relative newcomers say that palpable sense of pedigree in the town doesn't translate into exclusivity.
"Norfolk does have a feudal quality about it, but it's a place where reasonable people can make friends," said Warren Carter, a former banker from Brooklyn Heights who first rented a house in town in 2001 and the next year bought a 1919 Dutch colonial-style home with three bedrooms on an acre. Now, like a growing number of ex-New Yorkers, he lives in Norfolk all year. 

Cons
Norfolk residents like their rustication. Going there and back is challenging. All that's left of the Connecticut Western Railroad that shuttled New York summer residents to Norfolk from 1871 to 1927 is a bridge and station, which has been converted to office space. The closest Metro North stop is in Wassaic, N.Y., about 30 miles away. There is no gym, dry cleaner or pharmacy, and the nearest grocery store is six miles away in Canaan. And while Litchfield County does have top-notch restaurants, the offerings in town are limited to the Mizza Pizza shop and the Pub & Restaurant, which is owned by Ms. Davis's husband, David. 
The population, both full- and part-time, is overwhelmingly white and wealthy. And while many people talk about the strong sense of community, in the last year, a battle has erupted over the proposed Yale Farm Golf Club, an 18-hole course that is planned for the border of Norfolk and North Canaan. Weekenders are largely opposed to Yale Farm, saying it would ruin Norfolk's small-town character; year-rounders generally argue that the course would bring economic benefits like a lower tax burden.
The project, which other town commissions have conditionally approved, is before the Planning and Zoning Commission, which should complete public hearings within weeks. The plan is also subject to the approval of the Army Corps of Engineers and the Connecticut Environmental Protection Department.

The Real Estate Market
Prices in Norfolk have risen about 40 percent the last five years, said Tom McGowan, an agent in the Norfolk office of Elyse Harney Real Estate (860-542-5500). Still, the distance from New York and lack of transportation means homes still sell at a 15 percent discount to those in parts of Litchfield County that are closer to the city. 
"You can get really good value here and find more sophistication than anywhere else in Litchfield County," Mr. McGowan said.
The town's history as a summer spot for the wealthy has left it stocked with rambling century-old homes with as many as 15 bedrooms, wraparound porches and names like the Alders. The largest estates could cost $5 million and stay on the market a couple of years, but homes priced $1 million and below tend to move quickly, usually selling within 90 days, Mr. McGowan said. 
There is not much buildable land left because of restrictions that most lots must be at least two acres and have 200 feet of streetfront. 
At the end of 2003, there were 15 properties on the market, ranging from $200,000 to $2.6 million, though most were $300,000 to $600,000. They included a 1746 six-bedroom, five-bathroom Colonial with two fireplaces, situated on an acre, for $730,000. Also, an eight-bedroom, five-bathroom, white 1905 Colonial Revival home, with a carriage house, is listed for $579,000.

LAY OF THE LAND
Where Outdoors And Music Meet

POPULATION -- 1,751 full time.
SIZE -- 46.4 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE -- $142,500.
RECENT SALES -- From the beginning of August through November, a relatively slow period, eight homes were sold. They included a 200-year-old, one-and-a-half story house with three bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms, for $220,000; also a 75-year-old Cape Cod-style house with three bedrooms and two bathrooms, on a half acre less than a mile from the town green, for $247,000; and a 100-year-old two-story 5,000-square-foot Victorian, with four bedrooms, three fireplaces and three and a half bathrooms on a seven-acre lot for $671,500.
DISTANCE FROM NEW YORK -- 130 miles.
TRAVEL TIME -- In light traffic, two and a half hours.
GETTING THERE -- Take Interstate 684 north to Route 22 North. At Route 44, drive west to Norfolk.
WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Blackberry River Inn (538 Greenwoods Road Route 44 West, 860-542-5100) is a newly refurbished 1763 inn listed on the National Register of Historic Places, with 20 rooms in three separate buildings and priced from $85 to $225. The Manor House (69 Maple Avenue, 860-542-5690) is an 1898 Tudor-style mansion that has 19 Tiffany windows. Some of its nine rooms have working fireplaces, private balconies or two-person whirlpool baths, and are $125 to $250. Both inns include full breakfasts, and on weekends both require a minimum two-night stay.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Weekender column on Jan. 9, about Norfolk, Conn., misstated highway directions from Route 22. Drivers must travel east on Route 44, not west.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FEW RIPPLES -- A spirited mix of locals and weekenders makes Norfolk a close-knit community in the winter. Skaters from both groups took to the ice on Wood Creek Pond on New Year's Day. The Loon Meadow Farm runs horse-drawn tours year-round. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) Map of Connecticut highlighting Norfolk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); MUSIC (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (88%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); FILM (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); HISTORIC SITES (63%); CONVENIENCE STORES (62%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



172 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: RITUALS; 
Shooting for a New Generation

BYLINE:  By TATIANA BONCOMPAGNI

 BODY:
SITTING in a mesh-covered pit in the middle of winter was never Christopher D'Annibale's idea of fun. That is until last January when he went on his first goose hunt on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. "It's actually not so different from golf," said Mr. D'Annibale, 33, a hedge fund manager in New York City. "It takes patience."
 Long out of favor, hunting is fast becoming a hip way to spend the weekend for the young and upwardly mobile. According to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the number of hunters with household incomes of $100,000 or more increased more than 25 percent, to 1.3 million, from 1991 to 2001 (taking into account inflation and population increases). And over the last three years alone, upscale hunting clubs like the Mashomack Preserve Club in Pine Plains, N.Y., and Pintail Point in Queenstown, Md., report that business has grown as much as 20 percent, while high-end gun manufacturers and specialty clothing retailers say that sales of hunting jackets and other gear are up 10 percent or more. 
 Most of the growth, industry watchers say, comes from an unlikely group of newcomers: adults in their late-20's to mid-40's who did not grow up hunting -- and who may have friends and family who are appalled by it. That has not stopped the new hunters from spending thousands of dollars on Barbour hunting coats and Beretta shotguns to use in the woods near their weekend homes or to take on guided trips to hunt upland game (pheasant, partridge and other birds) in places like South Dakota.
"Traditionally, you'd be introduced to hunting by your father or an uncle, but what's happening far more these days is younger people are taking it up and getting their friends to come along," said Daryl Greatrex, a New York-based director of Holland & Holland, a nearly 170-year-old British hunting outfitter.
Helen Nigg, a managing partner at an Internet services company in San Francisco, grew up in Irvine, Calif., and had never held a gun until last year. But on a recent weekend excursion to a private ranch in Sun Valley, Idaho, she shocked her friends by bringing down a chukar (a bird similar to a partridge) with one shot. "I guess I just had this stereotype of hunting as just a bunch of big, burly guys who wear plaid and N.R.A. caps and say, 'Let's go out and kill some defenseless animals,' " said Ms. Nigg, who is planning to go bird hunting next year in Northern California. Her friends still think it is a "rednecky thing to do," she said.
Of course, hunting has long been popular among upper-crust American families, but until recently the majority of hunters came from rural communities where fathers and sons would go out each fall to shoot a deer. But over the last 40 years, that tradition has been waning. In New York State, for instance, slightly more than 750,000 hunting licenses were sold last year, compared with 1.27 million 20 years ago.
That has encouraged hunting-related companies to increasingly focus on a more upscale market, said Bob Ireland, a branding specialist in New York and an avid hunter. The sport's popularity falls into the same "country" lifestyle category that has soccer moms buying Range Rovers and wearing Beretta jackets in suburbs like Greenwich, Conn.
Dan O'Conner, the director of licensing and outdoor services at the Orvis Company, which sells bird-hunting gear and runs three shooting schools, said that bird hunting is up 20 percent at Orvis's Sandanona game preserve in Millbrook, N.Y. "Bird hunting has always been done by an elite group of people, and young successful people in the city are caught up in that whole thing," he said.
Indeed, gun makers and hunting outfitters are increasingly pushing high-end goods designed for the new hunters. Kimber, a New York-based manufacturer, and the Remington Arms Company of Madison, N.C., are introducing new shotguns featuring checkered stocks for an enhanced grip and more aesthetic appeal (the priciest are $6,000). And the U.S. Repeating Arms Company, of Morgan, Utah, maker of Winchester rifles and shotguns, recently reintroduced stack barrel shotguns, which are frequently used by clay sports shooters and bird hunters, and which the company had not sold in the United States in more than a decade. The top model of the new line sells for $2,227.
So many people want to look as if they spend the weekend flushing grouse that Barbour, the British-based retailer, opened its first United States store in December, in New York, Barbour by Peter Elliot, to sell items like its classic waxed-cotton, corduroy-collared sage green jacket. "We built this store to cater to the urban hunter," said Elliot Rabin, Barbour's American partner.
Even retailers that haven't traditionally produced hunt-friendly gear are getting into the act. The high-end men's store Paul Stuart, for instance, added a $1,000 field jacket to its men's collection three seasons ago and is now selling heavy boot socks and $130 sport shirts in traditional hunt-style checks and plaids. Sales of the jackets have almost quadrupled since their introduction, said Jack Freedman, the brand manager for Paul Stuart. 
Elizabeth Van De Bogart, 32, an account manager for a marketing company, understands the appeal of hunt fashion. She went on her first armed hunt in October, after completing her 10-hour hunter safety course (a requirement in New York State). For her weekend hunting jaunts in the Adirondacks, at a family second home, she bought a fitted camouflage jumpsuit and gloves. "I look really good in it," she said of the outfit, which she wears with pearl earrings. 
But hunting, as many neophytes find out, is not only about fashion. On his first hunt, Mr. D'Annibale hit a goose on the wing but then had to finish the job at close range. "I had to put it out of its misery," he said. "It kind of bummed us out." Nevertheless, he said he found himself enamored of the sport.
Others have drawn the line at killing. Gregory Barnard, 48, a senior vice president with Bank of America in Washington, has loaded up on hunting gear, like a shooting vest with a padded shoulder (it helps with kickback), special walking boots and electronic ear protectors. But the only thing he has shot in the two years since he took it up are clay disks, which are ejected into the air at different angles to mimic the flight of birds. "I don't feel much desire to go out and shoot animals," he said. 
Then there's Bryan D'Orazio, 35, a senior vice president at a printing services company in Somers, N.Y., who took up hunting last year near his family's second home in the Catskills. Since then, he said, his sisters have been giving him a hard time. "They kind of yelled at me, " 'How can you shoot animals?,' " Mr. D'Orazio said. His answer: "I still haven't hit anything."

GOING AFIELD?
When Style Is the Game
HUNTING outfitters, retailers and gunsmiths have spent the last few years coming up with new gear to appeal to the growing crop of neophyte hunters. And although it takes more than a fancy shotgun and a stylish new hunting jacket to become a hunter (often including a state-sponsored safety course), here's a head start on how to look the part, as well as where to show off your hunt-chic attire.

BARBOUR INTERNATIONAL JACKET
Price: $298.
What it is: A waxed-cotton cross between a motorcycle jacket and a hunting coat, this unisex belted-waist, tear-resistant outerwear is appropriate for hostile environments, from a Park Avenue rush hour to a crack-of-dawn goose hunt in upstate New York.

Contact: Barbour by Peter Elliot, 1047 Madison Avenue, New York; 212-570-2600; www.barbour.com.

BERETTA CARTRIDGE CUFF LINKS
Price: $195.
What it is: Sterling silver miniature replicas of shotgun cartridges, available in jasper, lapis or tiger's-eye, were introduced two years ago to give hunters an understated "way to wear your sport on your sleeve," said Robert Booz, the manager of the Beretta Gallery in New York. Other items but not the cuff links are available on the Internet.

Contact: Beretta Gallery, 718 Madison Avenue, New York; 212-319-3235; www.berettausa.com.

KIMBER AUGUSTA SHOTGUN
Price: Starts at $6,000.
What it is: This new Italian-made over-and-under shotgun was designed for and used by target-shooters in the 2000 Olympics and can be customized with exhibition-grade walnut and a hand-checkered stock.

Contact: Kimber, 800-880-2418; www.kimberamerica.com.

GREENBRIER SHOOTING WEEKEND
Price: $2,600 for two people sharing a room and both participating in the weekend activities; $2,200 with only one of the two people participating; $1,700 for one participant in a single room.

What it is: Holland & Holland Outdoor Pursuits at the Greenbrier offers a weekend of shooting at clays and targets using Holland & Holland guns and off-roading in Land Rovers. This year it is scheduled for the weekend of June 25 at the Greenbrier Resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.

Contact: The Greenbrier Resort, 800-624-6070; www.greenbrier.com.

PUBLIC PRESERVES
Where the Deer and the Antelope Worry

IT'S been a good season for hunting preserves across the country. Here are some places where hunters have been logging some time behind a gun.

ORVIS SANDANONA
At this 400-acre shooting preserve in Millbrook, N.Y., members reserve hunt times much like tee times. Guided hunts for pheasant, chukar and Hungarian partridge are available from Sept. 1 to March 31. There is a $2,500 initiation fee plus a $2,000 yearly usage fee. For information: www.orvis.com; (845) 677-9701.

DAKOTA HILLS HUNTING LODGE
This 4,000-acre, 12-year-old hunting preserve in Oral, S.D., overlooks 80 miles of the famous Black Hills. Guests hunt pheasant, partridge and grouse, aided by German shorthaired pointers, Labrador retrievers and English springer spaniels from the lodge's 35-dog kennel. The cost is $2,672 for a three-day, four-night stay, including meals, airport transportation and taxes. For information: www.dakotahills.com; (800) 622-3603.

FORBES TRINCHERA RANCH
Malcolm Forbes bought this 250-square-mile ranch in Fort Garland, Colo., in 1969 and turned it into a hunters' paradise. Elk, deer, mountain lion and bear can be hunted, but serious -- and deep-pocketed -- hunters sign up for one of the three $42,500 bighorn sheep permits handed out each year. Elk hunts are $6,000, and deer hunts are $4,000. License fees are extra. For information: www.forbestrinchera.com; (719) 379-3263.

BROADMOUTH CANYON RANCH
Owned and operated by Rulon Jones, the former Denver Broncos' defensive end, this 12,000-acre ranch in Liberty, Utah, in the Wasatch Range, allows guests to hunt elk, mule deer and cougar on foot or horseback, as well as in all-terrain vehicles when deemed necessary. A five-day trophy elk hunt is $5,900 (license fees are extra). Mule deer and cougar hunts are less expensive. For information: www.utahelkhunt.com; (800) 745-1912. 

GREYSTONE CASTLE
Guests of this 24-room lodge in Mingus, Tex., can choose from an assortment of game: mallard ducks, quail and Rio Grande turkeys to white-tailed deer. Deer hunts start at $4,000; a three-day, two-night spring turkey hunt costs
$1,500 a person. For information: www.greystonecastle.com; (800) 399-3006.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about a new generation of hunters gave an incorrect telephone number in some copies for the Broadmouth Canyon Ranch in Liberty, Utah. Its number is (801) 745-1912.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PREPARED -- Ms. Van De Bogart took a 10-hour hunter safety course.; DIFFERENT TARGETS -- Christopher D'Annibale, top, practiced shooting clays at the Rockaway Hunt Club on Long Island. Elizabeth Van De Bogart and her hunting partner, Andy Massimilian, set out a goose decoy near Maybrook, N.Y. (Photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times); (Photo by George Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT HUNTING (90%); BIRDS (89%); WILDLIFE (77%); GOLF (77%); COMMERCIAL HUNTING & TRAPPING (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); FIREARMS (72%); RETAILERS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); POPULATION GROWTH (55%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



173 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
Up North, Where a Cold War Still Rages

BYLINE:  By NEAL KARLEN

 BODY:
WHAT would Margaret Mead make of a tribe of 6,703 people that each winter celebrates its land as the coldest spot in the contiguous United States with an outdoor festival that features such rituals as "Turkey Bowling," in which frozen poultry takes the place of bowling balls, and a "Freeze Yer Gizzard Blizzard Run," billed as the coldest 10-kilometer race in the United States? (In 1987, that race was run in temperatures that plummeted to minus 28 Fahrenheit.)
 But that's what things are like in International Falls, Minn., which hangs like a stalactite from the Canadian border, and for which "Ice Box Days XXIV" (to be held next Thursday through Sunday and not to be confused with Super Bowl XXXVIII) is a celebration of its idiosyncratic fame. Not for nothing, in fact, did the town fathers trademark the term "Icebox of the Nation" in the 1950's, thereby embracing its status as the punch line of weathermen from Maine to Maui, who each day let their viewers know there is always someone else in the country worse off than them. 
 Not so fast, says Roland Fowler, a 64-year-old former Army mule skinner, or driver, who lives 120 miles away in Embarrass, Minn., a hamlet with 640 people, just one gas station and no visitor accommodations. "There's no way International Falls can keep up with us," he said earlier this week, when the thermometer outside his farmhouse recorded a low of minus 25 and a high of minus 14. "Even in July we've had garden-killing frosts."
For two decades, Mr. Fowler has argued that International Falls has been dining out on its status as America's "Ice Station Zebra" for too long. Way too long. On Feb. 8, 1982, Embarrass hit 52 below on an unofficial thermometer that shattered while the mercury was still headed south. But it wasn't until eight years ago that Embarrass, honoring trademark laws, started billing itself with a less poetic, but more straightforward slogan: "The Nation's Cold Spot."
For Embarrass, the biggest bonanza is bragging rights, nothing to sneeze at when the comparative megalopolis up north can also boast that Bronko Nagurski and Tammy Faye Bakker learned, respectively, to play football and to apply makeup in their native International Falls. "We're famous, everywhere you go in the country, people have heard of us because of the Weather Channel," said Esther Myers, the editor of Embarrass's monthly newspaper, The Flying Finn, whose major feature each issue is a day-by-day recording of the previous four weeks' temperatures.
Indeed, for the last few years, and often several times a day during the dead of winter, the weather network beamed into 87 million American households and across the world has trumpeted Embarrass as the site of that day's low temperature, leaving the city known regionally as the Falls out in the cold. It wasn't so long ago that even high-brow media venues like public radio's "Car Talk" would focus on International Falls, with residents getting their 15 minutes of fame telling tales of local inebriates urinating on their frozen car door locks to thaw them out.
There is much more at stake than winning bar bets for International Falls. In fact, for decades, the city has lured dozens of car, aviation and clothes manufacturers to subject their new designs to the town's harsh climate. And when it's too warm outside, testers can use a 2,000-square-foot "cold box" built in 2000. The facility can hold up to a dozen cars in temperatures reaching 40 degrees below zero, bringing millions of dollars to the local economy in fees, motel rooms and on-hand spare parts.
More recently, International Falls has tried to convince tourists that it is a swell place to visit year-round, an attitude adjustment for a city that for so long prided itself on how inhuman it was to live there. "We made this image for ourselves in the past, and then we wanted the rivalry with Embarrass," said Harry Swendsen, the good-humored 44-year-old mayor of International Falls, speaking from his office at The Daily Journal, where he doubles as the paper's general manager. "Now, we want people to know it's not only not that bad here, it's a great place with plenty to do." (Among the features promoted: some of the best walleye fishing in the state, winter or summer.)
For Mr. Fowler, the person most responsible for getting places like the Weather Channel to switch allegiance, recognition has been long coming. "For decades, International Falls was supposed to be the coldest, but we knew just by looking at the thermometer that that couldn't be," he said. "It took 12 years before we could officially prove we were colder, and muscle our way into the limelight."
A longtime activist who served as a union leader when he worked in a nearby mine, Mr. Fowler now mows the grass in the Embarrass cemetery, floods the local ice rink, and serves as Embarrass's representative on the local school board (Embarrass itself has no schools).
If there was a crucial moment in Mr. Fowler's odyssey, it was a day 15 years ago when he was watching the Weather Channel and saw International Falls named as having that day's low. He began by sending the broken Taylor thermometer that had hit minus 52 to its manufacturer, whose scientists analyzed the reading and sent a letter confirming it as accurate. He then mailed the letter to Bruce Watson, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Minneapolis, who in the coming years would lobby on behalf of Mr. Fowler and Embarrass to make the readings official. Mr. Watson sent weather-recording boxes up to Mr. Fowler to take daily readings, and three years ago, Embarrass was rewarded with official status, meaning that the Weather Service would now accept Embarrass's reported temperatures as accurate.
Paul Kocin, a meteorologist and winter weather expert for the Weather Channel, headquartered in Atlanta, is well aware of the tussle. "We're always seeing temperatures lower than International Falls, but compared to these other places it's a large, sizeable city that always has had proper equipment. It's no problem finding a guy in a small town with a thermometer that's colder. We report the lows as interesting trivia, but we have to be very careful that people don't report temperatures lower than they really are just for the attention."
As for the battle between Embarrass and International Falls? "Whoever brags most wins," Mr. Kocin said. "They're both cold. What difference does it make if it's minus 35 one place and minus 40 not far away?"
Since Embarrass's recognition three years ago, Mr. Fowler has been rewarded with a new National Weather Service-sanctioned thermometer, stationed in a white box in his backyard that registers highs and lows on a clock-radio-looking device inside his house. He and his wife also staff an 8-by-10-foot weather station a few dozen yards down the road. Mr. Fowler is nothing if not diligent as he pulls out his notebooks showing daily highs, lows and precipitation recorded in neatly penciled columns. "When it's sunny, it's usually coldest between 8 and 8:04 a.m.," Mrs. Fowler chimed in from across their dining room table.
As Embarrass's cold war ambassador, Mr. Fowler has learned over recent years how to deal with reporters from as far away as Japan, unfailingly offering cups of coffee and asking visiting journalists if they've eaten or want to take their shoes off. He was thrilled when "Good Morning America" first called him in 1998 for an on-the-spot report.
Some in International Falls are not willing to give up on the rivalry just yet. Tim Shuff, 54, owner of the Sportsman's Service fishing gear store, contended a few weeks ago, on a morning that hit 5 below, that "our weather station used to be a lot more elaborate, while in Embarrass they just had a guy with a thermometer."
The official word, though, at the National Weather Service in Duluth, Minn., as at the Weather Channel, is: Who really cares? Cold is cold.
Here, for the record, are the facts: The official average low in December, January and February in International Falls is minus 3.4 degrees, while Embarrass measures minus 6.3. And the year-round temperature in Embarrass averages out at 34.4, a full degree colder than anyplace else in Minnesota. (Wednesday, as a cold front moved across the country, International Falls recorded a low temperature of 15 below and Embarrass one of 24 below.)
Meanwhile, a lot of people in International Falls don't seem all that interested in keeping the competition going. In 2002, workmen dismantled the giant thermometer in Smokey Bear Park, the one that in 1968 recorded a temperature of minus 46 degrees and was long a fixture on the thousands of postcards sold to tourists passing by on their way in and out of Canada. It had recently broken, and no one seemed willing to cough up the $30,000 it would have cost to fix it. "The idea just didn't come up in city council meetings," Mayor Swendsen said.
If anything, International Falls seems to be recasting itself. "I'm embarrassed to say I've never been to Embarrass, but it's too darn cold there," said the Falls's Mayor Swendsen. "Some people here have suggested we have a big to-do, go to Embarrass, and officially present them with the title of 'Icebox of the Nation.' "
Then, of course, there is this sobering thought: Perhaps Embarrass and International Falls may both be wrong about Minnesota's coldest place. "I hate to tell them, but it might be colder in Tower," said Dan Markee, another weather specialist at the National Weather Service in Duluth. "The same night it hit 57 below in Embarrass, it was minus 60 in Tower. They just haven't made a big deal out of it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BRRR -- Harry Swendsen, above, the mayor of International Falls, Minn., says he now wants to emphasize what a great place the town is, not just how cold. Left, Roland Fowler of Embarrass said it took him 12 years to wrench the cold title from International Falls. Far left, Esther Myers, the editor of The Flying Finn, the Embarrass paper, whose major feature each issue is a day-by-day recording of the previous four weeks' temperatures. (Photographs by Steve Burmeister for The New York Times)(pg. F3); ON ICE -- The colder the better for residents of International Falls, Minn. (Photo by Steve Burmeister for The New York Times)(pg. F1) Drawing (Drawing by Gary Hallgren)(pg. F1) Map of Minnesota highlighting International Falls and Embarrass. (pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (89%); WEATHER (89%); FESTIVALS (77%); POULTRY (77%); THERMAL SENSORS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); TRADEMARK LAW (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); RUNNING (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



174 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Forget a Key Under the Mat; The E-Caretaker Is Watching

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
SNUG at home in Hamilton, Mass., Ralph W. Sevinor keeps a watchful eye out for possible floods or break-ins at his vacation house 1,500 miles away in Delray Beach, Fla. -- not to mention unwanted stacks of newspapers and U.P.S. men, who might drop off perishables when he is not in Florida to collect them.
 To stay on top of a home that is three hours away by plane, Mr. Sevinor, 48, the owner of an alarm installation business, has cameras perched near doors and in basements, all linked to his Dell computer in Hamilton. When someone comes to the door, a photo is taken -- triggered by the pressing of the doorbell -- and immediately sent to him by e-mail. That's how he was notified about the overeager newspaper deliveryman who was piling newspapers on his doorstep, even though Mr. Sevinor wasn't scheduled to be in Florida for months. He called the distributor; problem solved. 
 Mr. Sevinor is just one of a growing number of people who are using technology to monitor and control their second homes from afar, replacing the traditional caretaker with a high-tech equivalent. 
The hope is to make one aspect of second-home ownership a memory of the past: arriving with plans for a dry martini and a good book only to find that the basement has flooded. But the technology to monitor second homes is not just about avoiding watery basements or watching for burglars or phantoms. The same sensors allow you to tweak the temperature of a wine cellar miles away or to switch on the hot tub from your car as you begin your snail-like Friday-night commute. The sensors, cameras and two-way audio devices are often hooked into traditional alarm systems, and they run the gamut of pricing. They can operate over phone lines and broadband cable or by satellite.
Such product-line extensions have been a major source of security industry growth in recent years, said Richard Chase, the executive director of the Security Industry Association in Alexandria, Va. He said that there has been a constant stream of new products, and interest in them is growing. "Calls come in from venture capitalists almost every day, asking about the industry," he said. 
Mr. Chase said that he did not have precise numbers for how many remote monitoring systems go into second homes but, as a gift, he recently set up his in-laws with OzVision (Mr. Sevinor uses it, too). OzVision, an Israeli company that opened an office in Massachusetts in 2002, offers closed-circuit-video and still-photo systems. (The images generated by these kinds of systems can be monitored by the homeowner or by a security company.) 
Mr. Chase set cameras on the front and back doors and in the living room of his in-laws' second home in the Berkshires. "They can see if their son-in-law has his feet up on the coffee table," Mr. Chase said, "which I wouldn't dare do." 
It's a long way from leaving a key under the front mat for the local handyman. Robert McCrie, a professor of security management at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan, said that such technology is changing the face of second-home ownership. Feeling safer about everything from floods to burglary, homeowners are leaving more valuables in their homes and investing more money in them. 
"That you are responsible for something so far away is a very funny thing to get used to," said Dr. Barbara Stimmel, a psychotherapist and former president of the New York Freudian Society -- and a Manhattan resident with three homes elsewhere. "It takes time to get into the right frame of mind about it." Time has helped Dr. Stimmel, but so have her sensors, which notify local oil companies directly when the temperature drops below a preset level at one of her second homes. A serviceman is sent out, and Dr. Stimmel doesn't hear about it until the problem has been solved.
Andrew Kalmanash, an accountant from Stamford, Conn., is concerned about the boiler in his second home and also about security and the welfare of his eight show-quality Portuguese water dogs. Though East Booth Bay, Me., is hardly a crime center, Mr. Kalmanash has several layers of security around his second home there, and he is contacted by telephone or cellphone when any layer is breached. 
The smoke and fire detectors inside his house are even more important. Mr. Kalmanash, 46, and his wife, Angela, 48, take their dogs along when they go to East Booth Bay, leaving them in metal cages when they go out for dinner. If a smoke or a fire alarm is triggered, the Kalmanashes would be notified immediately by cellphone. 
"The last thing I want to do is lose a critter I put a lot of training into," Mr. Kalmanash said. He said his monitoring system cost less than $4,000 to install and about $200 annually to run. 
When Monette Klein-O'Grady, 49, built a second home in Miami recently, she had the ADT alarm system upgraded to allow her to control the air-conditioning from her home in North Carolina, allowing her to react to weather fronts hitting Florida. Her hope is that the system will save her money in the long run, but economics wasn't the only priority. 
"I also drive the 13 hours to Miami," Mrs. Klein-O'Grady said, "and I program my exact E.T.A. to prepare my steam room to be ready. I like to arrive, steam and jump into bed." 
A BIG limitation to high-tech second homes is the lack of anything like a virtual caretaker who could take a spin through the house, find something the technology cannot spot and make a judgment call. "If a bird flies into a window," Dr. Stimmel said, "we still need someone to call the glazier and someone to let them in." 
But Mr. Kalmanash said that the human element can come up short, too. "Even if you have someone check every 24 hours," he said, "it is incredible how quickly a series of events, like a furnace going out, can bring the house down." 
If he gets a signal that something has gone wrong and the house needs to be checked, Mr. Kalmanash calls the alarm company and it turns off the various alarm triggers for a repairman. He does the same thing, incidentally, when he is at his vacation home and something goes wrong at his primary residence in Connecticut. His next-door neighbor there has a key but no alarm code. Mr. Kalmanash turns off the system from Maine when his neighbor needs to go inside.
A common criticism of monitoring systems is that they are only as good as the reliability of local electricity transmission, rarely a strong suit of remote vacation areas. Mr. Kalmanash, for one, has battery backups. "And some people have a generator big enough to start up a whole block," he said. "But I haven't gotten that insane yet." The only bother of the spasmodic local electricity flow, he added, is that he receives frequent notifications that the electricity is out.
Still, even high technology can go on the fritz. Dr. Alan Hilfer, a psychologist who lives in Manhattan, bought a house last year in Damascus, Pa. He said that it came with a sensor that was supposed to notify him when the cesspool overflowed. The sensor, unfortunately, broke. Dr. Hilfer is currently in the market for a monitoring system for his cesspool and water pipes that he hopes will be "less than something James Bond would have," but enough to keep the waste where it is and water flowing. 
On the whole, technology is a timesaver, especially for a man who manages 825 vacation homes on the Outer Banks of North Carolina -- hurricane country. Using a Web- and telephone-based program, Timothy Cafferty, the president and general manager of ResortQuest Outer Banks can now warn thousands of people at once that a hurricane is coming, giving them 90 seconds of evacuation instructions over the telephone and requesting that they press a button to confirm that the message was received. His staff used to make individual phone calls until their fingers hurt, or they had to run around with a clipboards and bullhorns. 
"Those were the bad old days," Mr. Cafferty said, with a shudder. "We used to have to say the same thing 4,800 times." 
Monitoring technologies are also expanding into less traditional second homes, like boats. Michael Landsberg, sales manager for Monaco Marine Group USA, an importer of luxury yachts, said that his firm offered systems installed by Professional Security Monitoring of Nutley, N.J., on $700,000 to $2 million Vicem yachts. The alarms work over telephone lines in the marina and use cellular networks when the boat is out cruising. 
While technology is changing the nature of second-home ownership, it is not entirely transforming it. Some second-home owners, like Dan Miller, who lives in Manhattan and has a farmhouse on the North Fork of Long Island, see wiring a second home as modernity taken to an illogical extreme. He started the process, but the day he was setting up an iPod, lightning hit the house, putting a hole in it and short-circuiting all the electronics. Mr. Miller took it as a signal to keep life in the country simple, meaning circuitry free. 
But for those who do use the new technology, is there a break in insurance costs to be had, considering all the money they spend monitoring their second homes? 
Kip Diggs, a spokesman for State Farm Insurance, said that for the near future the answer is no. Such technologies are too new to be reflected in claims statistics, so insurers are holding tight.
They do give discounts for simple fire and burglar alarms, but not for those that detect deluges in the basement. "If you are not going to be there for extended periods of time," Mr. Diggs said, "we generally recommend that you just shut off the main water valve."

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOW IT'S DONE -- Ralph Sevinor in his basement in Hamilton, Mass.; REMOTE CONTROL -- Stacey and Ralph Sevinor check their Florida vacation house from their Massachusetts home. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); HOME SECURITY (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (75%); BURGLARY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); BROADBAND (62%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); VIRGINIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



175 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: American Jobs but Not the American Dream 

BYLINE:  By David Abraham; David Abraham, a visiting fellow in European history at Princeton, is a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami.

 BODY:
President Bush's immigration reform proposal, unveiled on Wednesday, is a classic guest worker program on the European model. As such, it may be doomed from the start: Europe's guest worker programs createdas many problems as they solved, and to this day they remain unpopular.
 Guest worker programs were widely used in Europe from the 1950's through the 1970's during a period of extreme labor shortages. Most of the several million Turks and Yugoslavs in Germany, for example, are there today because of Germany's substantial guest-worker program of that period. Lesser but substantial numbers of guest workers are also to be found among the Muslim populations of Central and Northern Europe. 
 Germany's guest worker program was ended more than two decades ago. Yet Germans still have not resolved the question of what to do with the millions of immigrants living in their midst. Although these immigrant workers get some benefits of citizenship -- health care, for example, and unemployment insurance -- they are not citizens. They are not allowed full membership in German society, yet neither are they forced to return home. It is virtually impossible to find anyone in Germany today who would favor re-establishment of its guest worker program.
The details of the program announced by President Bush have yet to be worked out. But its outlines are clear. At the invitation of employers, workers will be permitted to stay in the United States for a limited time without having to wait in its long immigration lines. They would also secure many of the benefits and protections of American-born workers.
The chief virtue of the program, as the president made clear, is that the guest workers would be allowed to move relatively freely between their country of citizenship -- overwhelmingly Mexico -- and the country in which they are "guests." Such movement could reduce the disturbing smuggling and illegal border crossings so common along America's frontiers.
But the drawbacks of guest worker programs far outweigh their advantages. To begin with, experience shows that guest workers are not good guests: they rarely want to leave. In Germany today there are more than two million people of Muslim Turkish origin, many of whose families came as guest workers four decades ago. Guest workers marry locals; they have children; they encourage their kin and friends to join them in the host country, legally or illegally.
After all, guest workers are not just labor, they are people. Where will these people live, and how will they be treated? Can we look forward to new urban ghettos or rural guest-worker "villages"? Fifty years after the civil rights movement, will we now have a new caste of subordinated foreign workers? Once the economic need for guest workers abates (assuming, in fact, that there is such a need) what happens to them?
It is true that America has more experience with assimilation than Europe. But that does not mean finding answers to these questions will be any less difficult.
And in some respects, the dangers of a guest worker program in the United States are graver than they were in Europe. Germany, the Benelux countries, Scandinavia and other European host countries had and still have very strong labor unions. Those strong unions were able to make certain that guest workers were not used by employers to depress wages. By contrast, American labor unions are weak to nonexistent in most segments of the labor market.
In addition, President Bush has clearly expressed his intention to put employers in charge: guest workers will be selected by employers and will be able to remain in the United States only so long as they stay with the employer who brought them. This is a sure recipe not only for the exploitation of these "guests" but also for the depression of American wages generally, especially among those who can least afford it -- many of them immigrants.
The United States has always been a "welcoming country," as the president said, "open to the talents and dreams of the world." But this plan is an abandonment of America's ideals, not an expression of them. It values immigrants' talents over their dreams. Instead of hope, it offers them simply a job. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (95%); IMMIGRATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); SLUM DWELLINGS (68%); SMUGGLING (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



176 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
New Brunswick Moving Up From New Rentals to Condos

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

 BODY:
After years of renewal efforts in the downtown business district here that have produced mostly rental apartment buildings, construction is to begin this month on a 25-story condominium tower that will be this city's tallest structure. 
 The new building is to have 120 one- to three-bedroom apartments, with sales prices of $250,000 to $500,000. It will also have 6,500 square feet of stores and 35,000 square feet of office space. An adjacent seven-story, 425-car garage will also be on the site, which is nearly one-acre and is now used for parking. 
 The development is at Spring and Paterson Streets, one block from a New Jersey Transit train station and two blocks from the headquarters of Johnson & Johnson.
Construction of the tower, which will cost nearly $50 million and will be named Spring Street Plaza, follows years of residential construction downtown that generated about 1,000 new and renovated mixed-income rentals. "Condominiums are the next step," said Omar Boraie, Spring Street Plaza's developer, "because the downtown needs housing for people to stay in town, spend money and energize the city." 
Glenn Patterson, director of the Department of Planning, Community and Economic Development for New Brunswick, noted that 75 percent of the city's residents are renters. "The city certainly would like to increase its percentage of homeowners and establish a less transient population," he said.
Among the latest rental projects downtown has been the conversion of the 14-story former Middlesex County administration building into 70 mixed-income rentals that Pennrose Properties of Philadelphia developed with the nonprofit New Brunswick Development Corporation. 
Nearby, a building with 417 market-rate rental apartments is nearing completion on one of two former parking lots across Neilson Street from each other. The second lot was to house up to 360 more rentals, but it may now include a "for-sale component to respond to New Brunswick's maturing residential market," said Richard F.X. Johnson, a senior vice president at the Matrix Development Group of Cranbury, which is developing the buildings with several partners. 
There was one earlier for-sale housing development downtown, 33 town houses built in the 1990's, that initially "was a tough sell," Mr. Patterson said. But resales at the enclave are healthy, with homes selling recently for $291,000 to $425,000, said Ruth Gebhardt, manager of Golden Key Realty. 
Mr. Boraie said the market would support Spring Street Plaza because the downtown -- which a decade ago had turned desolate after businesses closed at 6:00 p.m. -- has, with the increasing number of residences, restaurants and entertainment centers, become more of a round-the-clock environment. "People will be willing to buy an apartment," he said, "since they feel more comfortable living in New Brunswick and feel it is safe." Also favoring the project are low mortgage rates and a 30-year tax abatement from the city, he said.
Costas Kondylis and Partners of Manhattan has designed the tower, which is to be built by Tishman Construction over the next 18 months. 
Mr. Boraie's company, Boraie Development, which he runs with his two sons, Wasseem and Samer, was among the early developers active in New Brunswick's revival. Boraie Development bought the site last year from the city's parking authority. 
The site is in a redevelopment area where buildings generally are up to 150 feet tall. The city amended the zoning to 265 feet for the Spring Street project, however, enabling it to rise to its proposed height.
The city, Mr. Patterson said, "wanted a substantial enough project to make a positive impact downtown and attract buyers." 
Mr. Patterson said he expected future development to include more for-sale housing. Five blocks from Spring Street Plaza, 33 condominiums, to sell for $300,000 to $500,000, are part of a mixed-use building that, when completed in 2005, will also have 250 hotel rooms, as well as retail, conference and academic space. 
Mr. Kondylis said the apartments at Spring Street Plaza, which will be 800 to 1,700 square feet and all with balconies, would have features associated with the Manhattan condominiums he designs, like floor-to-ceiling glass window walls at the corners of the building and marble baths. 
Among the planned amenities are a gym and swimming pool. There will also be a 20,000-square-foot landscaped area atop the garage that will include a barbecue area, dog run and putting green.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spring Street Plaza in New Brunswick, N.J., is a condominium tower that will be 25 stories tall. (Photo by Costas Kondylis and Partners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COUNTIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); MATRIX DEVELOPMENT GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



177 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Sick State Budgets, Sick Kids 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
While headlines continue to tell us how great the economy is doing, states across the U.S. are pulling the plug on desperately needed health coverage for low-income Americans, including about a half-million children.
 Even as the Bush administration continues its bizarre quest for ever more tax cuts, the states, which by law have to balance their budgets, are cutting vital social programs so deeply that tragic consequences are inevitable. 
 The cruel reality is that Americans at the top are thriving at the expense of the well-being of those at the bottom and, increasingly, in the middle.
A new report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities shows that 34 states have made potentially devastating cuts over the past two years in public health insurance programs, including Medicaid and the very successful children's health insurance programs known as CHIPS. More cuts are expected this year. 
"Almost half of those losing health coverage (490,000 to 650,000 people) are children," the report said. "Substantial numbers of low-income parents, seniors, people with disabilities, childless adults and immigrants are also losing coverage. Cutbacks of this depth in health insurance coverage for low-income families and individuals are unprecedented."
The worst of the cuts are in Texas. "The Lone Star State has adopted deep cutbacks in its State Children's Health Insurance Program that will cause about 160,000 children -- one-third of its SCHIP caseload -- to lose coverage," the report said.
Texas is also making Medicaid available to fewer pregnant women, a dangerous move that increases the number of women without coverage for prenatal care and the actual deliveries. "All told," the report said, "Texas is eliminating coverage for between 344,000 and 494,000 children and adults. Census data showed that, even before these changes, the percentage of people who were uninsured was higher in Texas than in any other state."
A loss of health coverage frequently leads to a reluctance to seek needed care. "In poor or low-income families, where there is not a lot of disposable income, people will avoid going to the doctor or getting a prescription," said Leighton Ku, one of the authors of the report. "Certain diseases can then become much more severe. With children, it's likely that they won't get treatment for ear infections, asthma, diabetes -- conditions that can ultimately lead to hospitalization."
When treatment can no longer be avoided, the financial consequences can be ruinous. Medical expenses are one of the leading causes of bankruptcy in the U.S. 
Officials at the center noted the case of a woman in St. Louis who works but whose annual income is below the poverty line. Under eligibility rules in effect until 18 months ago, she would have qualified for Medicaid. Under the new rules, she does not.
The woman became ill and was told upon her release from the hospital to seek follow-up care. But without any health insurance, her medical bills have been overwhelming. According to the center, " The woman has occasional abdominal pain but is not getting any treatment. She intends to declare bankruptcy because she cannot pay the $47,000 she owes in medical bills, but so far has been unable to save the funds needed to pay for a bankruptcy filing."
People caught in this kind of squeeze often find themselves "sicker, much poorer, or both," said Robert Greenstein, the center's director.
It seems extremely strange that in the United States of America, the richest, most powerful nation in the history of the world, weare going backward in the 21st century in our ability to provide the most fundamental kinds of health care to ordinary people, including children.
The health insurance cutbacks would have been even worse if not for the $20 billion in emergency state aid that was reluctantly approved by the Bush administration and the Republican-led Congress last year. Despite the economic upturn, states are still struggling. They face a collective budget deficit of $40 billion to $50 billion for the coming fiscal year, and there is little sentiment among Republican leaders in Washington for another round of fiscal relief.
Maybe the nation itself needs a doctor. Shoving low-income people, including children, off the health care rolls at a time when the economy is allegedly booming is a sure sign of some kind of sickness in the society. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); BUDGETS (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CENSUS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (60%); DIABETES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



178 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Debt in November Grew at Half the October Pace 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer debt grew by $4 billion in November, half the pace of October, as shoppers charged fewer purchases, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday.
 Auto financing accounted for most of the 2.4 percent increase in nonmortgage credit, measured at an annual rate, the Fed reported in Washington. Borrowing had increased by $8.3 billion, the equivalent of a 5 percent rate, in October. 
 The Labor Department issued its weekly data on first-time claims for jobless benefits yesterday, reporting that claims rose to 353,000, up 14,000 from the prior week. It was the first increase in a month.
 The Commerce Department also reported that wholesale inventories rose 0.5 percent in November after a similar increase in October. It was the third consecutive gain. Sales rose 0.3 percent after a 2 percent increase.
 The slowdown in consumer debt may be short-lived. Retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores and Nordstrom, just had the biggest sales increase for a holiday season in four years. Auto sales increased again in December after gaining in November.
 Consumers took "a breather before December," said Richard Yamarone, an economist at the Argus Research Corporation. At the same time, rebates, discounts and other incentives for auto purchases "were just too good to avoid."
 The Fed, in yesterday's report, revised its numbers back to 1998. 
 Nonrevolving debt, which includes borrowing for vehicles, mobile homes and college tuition, and makes up almost 63 percent of nonmortgage household debt, rose by $4.6 billion in November after gaining $5.7 billion during October.
 Revolving credit, which includes credit cards, fell by $564 million in November after rising $2.6 billion in October.
 Some shoppers may have reached the limit of what they can borrow. Credit card delinquencies rose to a record 4.09 percent of consumers in the third quarter, the American Bankers Association said this week. The group cited the sluggish pace of job growth.
 Several economists also questioned the capacity of Americans to add debt.
 "Until wage and employment growth accelerate from here, consumers will need more than just traditional incentives to do what they did in 2003," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio.
 Before the report, consumer credit was forecast to increase $5 billion during November, according to the median forecast of 34 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
 Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, increased 0.4 percent in November after a gain of 0.1 percent in October and no change in September.
 Spending probably grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, according to the median of 54 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists completed Tuesday. That is down from the 6.9 percent rate of increase, the fastest since 1986, reported by the Commerce Department for the third quarter. The economists say spending may grow 3.7 percent this year.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph tracks initial jobless claims (4-week moving average), measured in thousands, from July to December. (Sources by Labor Department; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. Annual Rates of ChangeNov.: +2.4%Oct.: +5.0Sept.: +6.9 Graph tracks net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted from June 2002 to November 2003. (Source by Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); RETAILERS (79%); SALES REBATES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



179 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: In Germany, Shifting the Cost Of the Pension to the Worker 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
German business and government are in agreement over one thing: Both are worried about paying the pension bills for Germany's aging work force. The result may be bad news for workers, and more pressure on them to save for their own retirement. 
 Three major German companies disclosed plans this week to cut pension benefits for workers, with one, Commerzbank, doing so without first consulting its workers -- a move that is highly unusual in Germany. 
 "The problem for companies is whether they can afford the pensions in the future," said Christoph Groffy, a spokesman for Gerling, a German insurance company that is recovering from problems in its reinsurance business. He said workers at Gerling agreed last month to a change that would reduce pension benefits for most of them. That will lead to some higher-paid workers seeing cuts of up to 50 percent in their company-paid pensions. 
 The Gerling move, and plans for a change by Schering, the pharmaceutical company, were disclosed Wednesday, a day after Commerzbank, the large German bank, announced plans to simply halt its pension plan in 2005. Workers hired after that date will receive no pension from the company. Workers now with the company will receive benefits already earned but will not accrue additional benefits.
 Last month, the German government enacted its Agenda 2010 economic package that made modest changes in the state pension plan, which is similar in concept to the Social Security system in the United States. The government indicated that further money-saving measures would be considered. Officials made clear that they hoped German workers would take more responsibility for their own retirement, either directly or through company plans.
 "They wanted to address the point that personal responsibility of the people must increase," said Robert Ungnad, a spokesman for Schering, which said it planned to offer a less-generous retirement plan for workers hired this year or after. "So they want to push personal pension schemes, and they would like to see more company schemes. But it does not always work out that way, as you can see from Commerzbank."
 While most large German companies have not indicated any plans to change pension benefits, and both Commerzbank and Gerling have faced financial difficulties, the fact that any companies are moving in that direction could stiffen union resistance to efforts to cut the state pension plan.
 That plan is financed on a pay-as-you-go basis from payroll taxes, and remains in effect. The economic package announced last month altered the benefit payment schedule slightly but did not make major changes. At Schering, Mr. Ungnad said details of the new pension plan would be set after discussions with workers. 
 But he said the new plan would change the way benefits were calculated; now they are based on how much a worker makes in the final five years before reaching the age of 60.
 The new plan, he said, would base benefits on contributions made over a worker's career. That would end the risk to the company that an employee would get big raises late in a career and thereby qualify for more pension benefits.
 He said that while the current pension plan was financed entirely by company contributions, no decision had been made whether the new one might have some worker contributions.
 The current Schering plan will continue for the existing 8,000 employees in Germany.
 At Gerling, the company adopted a less-generous pension plan in 1998, but exempted workers already employed. Currently, Mr. Groffy said, 2,500 of the company's 7,500 workers are subject to the 1998 plan and would not be affected by its current change, which will move the other workers into the 1998 plan.
 "The other 5,000 will suffer a reduction in the pension, in many cases of up to 30 percent to 50 percent," he said. The new plan has a ceiling on benefits, so the largest impact will be on the more highly paid workers.
 He said that workers now over 60 would not be affected, and that the effect would be small on those nearing that age. "Those in their 40's and early 50's will suffer the most," he said.
 The Commerzbank move means that employees will no longer accumulate any pension benefits other than those under the government plan, and it aroused anger among worker representatives, who said they had not been consulted. 
 "We doubt that the board's decision is legal, and experts are investigating before discussion at an extraordinary meeting of the workers' council on Jan. 22," said Uwe Foullong of the Verdi Union, according to Reuters.
 Commerzbank shares rose on Tuesday, but then gave back those gains on Wednesday; the shares closed Thursday at 15.92 euros ($20.13) a share, off 0.4 percent for the week to date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); AGING (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); INSURANCE (70%); REINSURANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (84%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (84%); CBK (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



180 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Nokia Turns Bullish on Its 4th-Quarter Estimates 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. SCHENKER

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Nokia, the world's biggest maker of cellphones, unexpectedly raised its earnings and revenue estimates for the fourth quarter on Thursday, citing significantly better business at its telecommunications network unit as well as improved handset sales.
 "The strong seasonal development in both Nokia Mobile Phones and Nokia Networks exceeded even our own expectations," the company's chief executive, Jorma Ollila, said in a statement. 
 The announcement was a surprise, given that the company, which is based in Espoo, Finland, had earlier said that total sales for the quarter would be down from the period a year ago. Nokia is scheduled to report full results on Jan. 22. 
 The bullish estimates were the latest sign that the global telecommunications industry may be on the upswing after three troubled years. 
 Another sign also came on Thursday as Verizon Wireless, the largest wireless provider in the United States, said that it would spend $1 billion to deploy an advanced data network over the next two years. 
 Together, the evidence that consumers were buying more mobile phones and that phone companies were planning to spend more to build up their networks heartened investors on Thursday. And while no one was predicting the kind of double-digit growth seen before the telecommunications bubble burst in 2000, some analysts said they saw signs of a real turnaround.
 "December has been a blowout month for both handsets and networks," Marko Alaraatikka, a money manager in Helsinki, told Bloomberg News. "Nokia is selling more high-end handsets now," said Mr. Alaraatikka, who helps manage $3 billion at Evli Investment Management and holds Nokia stock.
 Shares of Nokia and some of its competitors surged , and shares of makers of network and phone equipment also closed sharply higher. Shares of Ericsson rose 14 percent in Stockholm trading, while Alcatel shares rose 10 percent on the Paris bourse. 
 American depository receipts of Nokia -- each representing one share of the Finnish company -- closed up 14 percent, at $20.47, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. That was the biggest one-day gain for the stock since July 2001.
 The network business has been the hardest hit by the slump in telecommunications spending. But Nokia estimated that quarterly sales at its network division reached 1.7 billion euros, or $2.17 billion, exceeding its earlier forecast of 1.4 billion euros. Nokia also projected its total sales for the quarter at 8.8 billion euros, little changed from the a year earlier but stronger than the decrease it expected earlier.
 And handset sales -- where Nokia derives the bulk of its total revenue -- were stronger than anticipated. Revenue was forecast to rise 4 percent, to 7 billion euros, up from an estimate of flat to slightly up. Nokia said it sold 55.3 million phones in the quarter.
 Nokia also said per-share earnings would probably be 28 cents to 29 cents a share, up from an earlier forecast of 21 cents to 23 cents a share.
 European mobile phone operators have sharply cut spending on their networks in recent years as they struggled to shrink huge debt loads. As traffic increases because of new ways to send data over cellphones, the networks have been strained. Operators are now ordering more equipment from Nokia than anticipated, analysts said.
 "This shows operators are slowly opening up their wallets again, now that their cash flow has improved a lot," Rob van Oostveen, an analyst at ABN Amro Asset Management, told Reuters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorma Ollila, the chief executive, offered upbeat estimates yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); EURO (86%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (66%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); EURONEXT PARIS SA (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (95%); NOK1V (BIT) (95%); NOK (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (87%); FINLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



181 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Currency Wars: Europe Watches While Others Play by Different Rules 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
WHAT happens if the world won't let the dollar fall? That question may sound odd given the run of headlines about the plunging dollar, but the reality is that the dollar is still strong where it counts.
 And that is bad news for Europe. 
Since the end of 2001, the dollar is down 30.4 percent against the euro. But against a basket of currencies -- weighted by how much each country contributes to the American trade deficit -- it is down just 6.7 percent. 
 The reason is that not all countries play by the same rules. Only a few are willing to allow their currencies to trade freely. China, which has the largest trade surplus, $123 billion in the latest 12 months reported, fixes its currency value against the dollar. It has turned away suggestions by the United States that it change that policy. 
 Japan, which ranks No.2, with a trade surplus of $68 billion, spent about $200 billion last year trying to prop up the dollar, presumably slowing the yen's rise. The dollar is down 19 percent against the yen since the end of 2001.
 The rise of the euro at first brought some joy to Europeans, who had been embarrassed by their new currency's initial slide. But now there is growing concern among companies and politicians that the euro will rise far enough to damage the nascent European recovery. 
 A cut in European interest rates might discourage capital from coming to Europe, and thus reduce the value of the euro or at least slow its ascent. It also might lift economic confidence in Europe, which has begun to sink again.
 But the European Central Bank left rates unchanged yesterday, with Jean-Claude Trichet, its chairman, appearing more worried about European budget deficits than about the impact of the rising euro on European companies.
 "Although recent exchange rate developments are likely to have some dampening effect on exports," he said, exports should continue to grow as the world economy recovers.
 The euro slipped before the bank met, amid suggestions that Mr. Trichet might say something significant even if the bank did nothing. But he did not, and the euro rose back over $1.27. 
 In the United States, the Federal Reserve even seems to like China's refusal to let its currency appreciate.
 "Looking at movements of the dollar against a single currency can be misleading about overall trends," said Ben S. Bernanke, a Fed governor, in a speech this week. "Broader measures of dollar strength show somewhat less of a decline." The way he sees it, that makes American inflation less likely, and therefore gives the Fed less reason to be concerned or to raise its own rates.
 For the dollar to hold steady, foreigners must be willing to buy enough American assets -- stocks, bonds, companies, real estate or whatever -- to offset the current account deficit, which is largely caused by the trade deficit. If they do not buy enough, then the dollar must fall.
 In theory, a declining dollar would lead to higher import prices that would reduce demand and bring down the trade deficit. But the current reality is that with the dollar not being allowed to fall against the Chinese currency, the yuan, economic adjustment will require a bigger decline against other currencies, primarily the euro.
The question now is whether Europe will stand by and watch its own competitiveness erode while hoping that world growth will somehow solve all problems. Notwithstanding the Bush administration's empty "strong dollar" talk, there appears to be little likelihood of Washington's joining in a move to sell euros.
 The ball is in the European Central Bank's court. Its inaction yesterday was no surprise, but it was regrettable.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks change in dollar value (DEFICIT WEIGHTED INDEX and EURO) since Dec. 28, 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



182 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Boys Choir Founder Faulted for Inaction In Sex Abuse Case 

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER and ROBIN POGREBIN; Susan Saulny and Howard Stier contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It was the spring of 2001 when an employee of the Boys Choir of Harlem went to Walter J. Turnbull, the founder and director of the world-renowned group, with shocking news: a 14-year-old student in the choir's academy had just accused the school's chief counselor of having molested him repeatedly for years.
 The police were not called. Afraid for his beloved institution, Dr. Turnbull chose instead to meet with the boy, investigators for the city say. The boy asked that the counselor be dismissed. "You don't make that decision," investigators say Dr. Turnbull replied. The counselor remained, and the school did not investigate, investigators say. 
 That silence was eventually broken when the student's mother went to the authorities that fall. The counselor was arrested, tried, convicted and sent to prison on a two-year term for sexual abuse. 
Now, the behind-the-scenes activity at the choir has been revealed in a startling memorandum on the case that was sent last month to the choir's board of directors by investigators for the New York City schools. The existence of the memo, which urged the choir's board to dismiss Dr. Turnbull, was first reported yesterday in The New York Post and The Daily News.
The board has asked for the resignation of Dr. Turnbull and his brother, Horace, the choir's executive vice president. 
At a news conference yesterday where they released the memo, investigators said the two men had let the counselor, Frank Jones Jr., stay in contact with students even after city officials explicitly banned him from the 650-student academy, a public school that is overseen and financed in part by the Department of Education.
Later, talking to reporters outside the academy on Madison Avenue in Harlem, Dr. Turnbull, 59, defended himself against the accusations and begged the board to keep him on.
"The board of directors has asked for my resignation," he said, even as the outraged parents of several choir members gathered around. "I'm saying it's unfair. I have asked the board to reconsider."
Horace H. Turnbull, 54, also speaking outside the school, said he and his brother had 35 years of experience with students and had never before had problems. "I accept responsibility for the mistake," he said, "but is the punishment warranted?"
Also yesterday, the abuse victim filed a $20 million lawsuit in State Supreme Court in Manhattan against the city, the school, the Department of Education, his abuser and several choir officials, including the Turnbulls, The Associated Press reported.
"We have not seen the lawsuit yet, but plan to evaluate it thoroughly," said Kate Ahlers, a spokeswoman in the city corporation counsel's office. 
The accusations against the Turnbulls have dealt the choir and its academy a painful blow at a time when both are struggling with their finances, as they have on and off for many years. The crisis could signify the end of an era for the group, which has performed from Yankee Stadium to Tokyo, and the beginning of a decidedly shaky future.
Two days before Christmas -- as the choir was preparing for its traditional holiday engagement at Avery Fisher Hall -- investigators sent the memo and a letter from the Manhattan District Attorney's office to the choir's board. The memo detailed an escalating pattern of abuse, from 1998 to 2000, that Mr. Jones, the academy's director of counseling, inflicted on a boy referred to as Student A. The abuse began as kissing, the memo said, and eventually involved massages and fondling.
The memo also charged that the Turnbull brothers had failed to report the complaints of abuse to the authorities. Even after city officials tried to bar Mr. Jones from the school in September 2001, he was allowed to remain so close to students that he was called upon to chaperone at least eight choir trips, the memo said.
"I find it extremely troubling that no action was taken against Frank Jones Jr. after the abuse was brought to the attention of Horace Turnbull and Dr. Walter Turnbull," Lisa M. Friel, the chief sex crimes investigator for the district attorney's office, wrote to the board. "Frank Jones was not fired, he was not suspended, there is not even any evidence that any investigation was conducted into these allegations."
The choir has long been a staple of New York's cultural scene, performing classical, contemporary and gospel music at prominent places like Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall, Radio City Music Hall and Gracie Mansion, in addition to touring the world. Dr. Turnbull, who founded the group in 1968, has been its conductor, trainer and guiding force.
As a result, arts professionals expressed dismay at the news of the investigators' memo.
"My reaction is sad," said Schuyler Chapin, the former Department of Cultural Affairs commissioner. "Walter Turnbull is an enormously gifted man, and the work he has done with the Boys Choir has been first rate. This is just a shame."
Some worried that the news could jeopardize the group's future. "You have to hope this doesn't affect the important work of the choir," said Anthony P. Coles, who served as deputy mayor for planning, education and cultural affairs under Rudolph W. Giuliani.
"The choir is an international landmark," Mr. Coles added, "and has been a wonderful program for years, adored all around the world."
Arts executives describe Dr. Turnbull as a tough taskmaster who produces young singers with talent as well as poise.
"They are the most well-behaved, courteous kids," said David Rodriguez, executive director of the Apollo Theater, which has presented the choir on several occasions. "If these were your grandchildren, you'd be a proud grandparent."
Dr. Turnbull also established the Harlem Girls Choir, which made its concert debut in 1997 at Alice Tully Hall in Lincoln Center.
His school, formally known as the Choir Academy of Harlem, educates students in fourth through 12th grade. The city pays for teachers, equipment and standard academics, but the choir pays for counselors and musical instruction.
Like many New York cultural institutions, the Boys Choir has been struggling financially since the 2001 terrorist attacks, which hurt ticket sales and fund-raising. But the choir has been economically precarious for considerably longer, people familiar with the organization said. While Dr. Turnbull is widely credited with making the choir an artistic success, he is also generally known as a poor fiscal manager.
According to the investigators' memo, the Turnbulls were first told of the student's complaint against Mr. Jones in the spring of 2001 by George Reyes, who runs a smaller group within the choir. Horace Turnbull was "outraged and concerned" by the accusations and told Mr. Reyes, "This could hurt the choir," the memo said.
In September 2001, the student's mother went to the police, the memo said. Hoping to enroll her son in another public school, the Frederick Douglass Academy, she went to that school's principal and told him about the abuse. The principal then told city education officials, who swiftly but unsuccessfully moved to bar Mr. Jones from the choir academy.
The order was never followed, investigators said. According to the academy's own log book, the memo says, Mr. Jones was visited at the school about 14 times after he was barred. The abused student even wore a recording device and visited Mr. Jones twice at his office in the school, the memo says.
The memo said that Margaret Bing-Wade, a city school official, told investigators that Horace Turnbull had complained to her that barring Mr. Jones was "a hardship," because he was "an integral part" of the program.
"Even more disturbing than Jones's presence at the Choir Academy was his continued assignment as a chaperone of Choir Academy students on overnight performance tours," the memo said. "Horace and Walter Turnbull, aware of allegations of sexual abuse by Student A, allowed Jones to chaperone 42 students on a nine-day tour of Japan in September 2001."
Beyond its renowned performances, the choir has served as something of a neighborhood organization to Harlem youngsters, and some arts executives expressed concern that its work in the community might suffer.
Mr. Rodriguez, for one, praised the sense of self-discipline that is instilled in the young people who are part of it. 
"Its continuation is critical," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about the investigation of an abuse complaint against a counselor at the academy of the Boys Choir of Harlem referred imprecisely to the routing of a letter about the case by Lisa M. Friel, chief sex crimes investigator for the Manhattan district attorney's office. It was addressed to Richard Condon, special commissioner of investigations for the New York City School District, who forwarded it to the choir's board with his memorandum about the case. Ms. Friel did not send it directly to the board.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Turnbull, conducting the Boys Choir of Harlem at Avery Fisher Hall in 1996, is widely credited with making the group an artistic success. (Photo by Chris Lee for The New York Times); Walter J. Turnbull, director of the Boys Choir of Harlem, speaking yesterday about a request made by the choir's board that he resign. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



183 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words

HEADLINE: Spending on Health Hits a Record Level 

 BODY:
Health spending accounts for nearly 15 percent of the nation's economy, the largest share on record, the Bush administration said. 
The Department of Health and Human Services said spending on health care shot up 9.3 percent in 2002, the largest increase in 11 years, to $1.55 trillion, an average of $5,440 for each person in the United States. Hospital care and prescription drugs accounted for much of the increase.
 Article, Page A16. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOSPITALS (84%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



184 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: County Leaders Tell Albany Need Is Urgent For Tax Relief 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Of all the subjects that can cause political and governmental upheaval, an old-fashioned tax revolt is high on the list. Over the years, elected officials from Sacramento to Chicago have faced the wrath of voters angry about high property taxes.
 This year, in New York, the subject is particularly emotional. A study released in November by a budget watchdog group found that New Yorkers pay more of their income in local taxes than residents of any other state. The news was received like the fuse of a bomb that is moving along closer to detonation each day. 
 On Thursday, both Republican and Democratic elected officials from counties around the state gathered at the State Capitol to demand a solution to the skyrocketing costs of Medicaid, which they say is a prime cause of local property tax increases and a strain on county budgets from Erie to Suffolk. 
"I am targeting the issue of Medicaid, and I am going to be involved in this year's election cycle," said Joel Giambra, the Erie County executive and a Republican. "We are creating a revolution. It's bubbling right now. It's simmering. It's going to boil over."
All week, county officials have been saying they are fed up with Albany's failure to pay for the health programs that Gov. George E. Pataki and state legislators like to take credit for as they pass the costs on to counties. New York is that rare place where localities share with the state and the federal government the cost of providing Medicaid services to the poor.
On Thursday, many county officials pledged to battle state legislators who ignore their pleas. They are collecting signatures from taxpayers, and plan to deliver them en masse to the governor and both legislative chambers in February. Most of the state's counties as well as New York City are said to be on board.
As a last resort, some of the officials even promised to work to defeat legislators individually. That political battle plan was laid out in November at the Citizens Budget Commission's annual meeting by Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive and a Democrat, who suggested one solution might be to defeat one state senator and one Assembly member from each county in this year's legislative elections.
Mr. Suozzi, who has become the leader of the statewide movement, stood with nearly 30 of his fellow county officials on Thursday, a day after Governor Pataki gave the subject of Medicaid a few sentences in a 75-minute annual speech to lawmakers, and said county leaders had no choice but to fight back. He said the cost of Medicaid mandates imposed by the state were putting intense pressure on his county's ability to deliver basics like social services, law enforcement and road repair.
"We are making it very clear that local taxpayers, our residents, our voters, cannot continue to bear the property tax burden being foisted upon us by the State of New York through this Medicaid program," Mr. Suozzi said. "And we are going to continue on a bipartisan basis, from rural to suburban to urban counties, to make this fight and make it clear that the reason property taxes are going up at the county level is because of Medicaid."
When asked if the fight was worth the potential loss of millions of dollars in legislative pork that state lawmakers from his district use each year to impress their constituents, Mr. Suozzi said yes. 
"Job No. 1, for us, is to connect the dots between Medicaid and property taxes," he said. "As the public begins to realize that, we will see more action from our state officials."
Tom Santulli, a Republican and the Chemung County executive, agreed. "I think we are on the verge of a taxpayer revolution," he said. "And let me tell you, when it happens, there will be no survivors, and it's as simple as that."
In Suffolk County, on Long Island, Steve Levy, the newly elected Democratic county executive, said the county collects $1 million worth of property taxes, alone, each week but sends more than that to Albany for Medicaid costs. 
"We cannot keep going in this fashion or soon my county government, like all the other county governments here, are just going to be a shell that is a distributor of state services with absolutely no discretionary parts of the budget left," Mr. Levy said.
For his part, Governor Pataki, in his annual address to the State Legislature, acknowledged that the $42 billion Medicaid program was fast becoming unaffordable. But it was a quick point he ticked off near the end of an 8,300-word address, and while some said they were happy to hear him mention it at all, it left many county executives in the crowd hungry for more details. 
The governor gave high praise to Joseph L. Bruno, the state Senate majority leader, for his proposal to cut about $2.5 billion for health insurance for the poor over the next five years and then help pay the counties' share of Family Health Plus, one of the most expensive and fastest-growing programs.
So far, Albany does not seem deeply troubled by the threats. Some in the capital have shrugged off Mr. Suozzi's comments as the words of a politician whose name has been raised as a potential candidate for governor.
When asked if any senators were politically vulnerable to the local uprising, John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, a Republican, said, "No, not at all."
Ken Brown, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget, said that since 1994 Governor Pataki had saved localities $2.8 billion through Medicaid cost containment measures. "His Medicaid reform task force is now developing sound initiatives to improve the system," Mr. Brown said.
Mr. Levy, a former state assemblyman, pointed out that Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly, had supported, in 1999, having state and federal governments pay the full cost of the Family Health Plus program to lighten the load on local governments.
Charles R. Carrier, a spokesman for Mr. Silver, said Thursday that the Assembly was anxiously awaiting the governor's budget, due Jan. 20, to fill out the details. He said, "Clearly, that is the point where our joint efforts to work cooperatively with the governor, the Senate, localities and health care providers to bring about Medicaid reform this year will begin."
The county officials agreed there was still time to work cooperatively to get relief from Albany and said they were seeking meetings with the governor and the two legislative leaders to explore a "menu" of initiatives, from revenue sharing to cost containment. Andrew Spano, the Westchester County executive and a Democrat, said he viewed the governor's speech as "opening the door to conversation."
That the issue has suddenly hit the forefront, after nearly two decades of effort by county officials, is easy to understand, Mr. Suozzi said. First, in the last five state budgets, the cost of the program has risen $12 billion, or about 40 percent, as Governor Pataki and the legislators have expanded the program at the same time the cost of medical services has outstripped inflation. Next, the bipartisan coalition of local leaders is united as it never has been. Third, property taxes are so onerous that voters are starting to complain.
"The time is now for action," Mr. Levy said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, complained about high Medicaid costs compared with what the county gets in property taxes. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); COUNTIES (92%); MEDICAID (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



185 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Trades Backed By Big Banks Draw Interest Of Regulators 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
The New York State attorney general and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating whether some large banks financed improper mutual fund trades by hedge funds. 
 The financings being investigated, which involved total return swaps, are reminiscent of the sort of transactions done by bankers on behalf of the Enron Corporation to conceal debt and artificially inflate earnings, regulators said. In both situations, the banks appear to have been "knowingly aiding and abetting a securities violation," said Stephen M. Cutler, director of enforcement at the S.E.C. 
 David D. Brown IV, head of the Investment Protection Bureau under the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the point person on its mutual fund investigation, said, "This is the next big focus of our investigation." 
 Among the banks whose transactions are being studied are Bank of America and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, people briefed on the investigation said. 
 C.I.B.C. reached an $80 million settlement with the commission last month for its role in setting up vehicles that allowed Enron to hide debt and inflate its profits by more than $1 billion and its operating cash flows by almost $2 billion.
 Neither Mr. Brown nor Mr. Cutler would comment on any specific subjects of their investigation.
 A spokesman for the Canadian bank said it would "not comment on speculation." A spokesman for Bank of America said that the bank announced in October that it would no longer do business with hedge funds involved with improper mutual fund trading and that it continued to cooperate with regulators. He declined to comment on the regulators' latest area of interest. 
 Regulators are examining whether derivatives trades allowed hedge funds that were engaged in improper fund trading to expand greatly the size of their bets, Mr. Brown said.
 In some instances, the banks set up accounts that were one-third backed by hedge funds engaged in the improper trading, with the remaining two-thirds backed by the banks themselves, Mr. Brown said. In return, the hedge funds agreed to pay a specific interest rate on the bank's capital. 
 The hedge funds were essentially betting that they would earn a greater return on their mutual fund trades than the rate that they had promised the banks. This trading is known as a total return swap and allowed the hedge funds to produce greater profits on smaller investments.
 The hedge funds routed mutual fund trades by these accounts through brokerage firms or other third parties. Many trades were processed after the market closed but at an earlier price, a process known as late-day trading, Mr. Brown said. This form of trading is illegal, regulators have said, because traders could take advantage of information available after the close.
 For at least one of the banks being investigated, "this was a major business," Mr. Brown said. There is evidence that the banks, through their own due diligence, knew that the hedge funds were engaged in illegal trading, he added.
 C.I.B.C.'s name surfaced in a suit filed in November by the commonwealth of Massachusetts against former brokers and managers of Prudential Securities who regulators say made many improper fund trades. Prudential had trading arrangements with two hedge funds, Head Start and Chronos Asset Management, referred to it by C.I.B.C., the suit said. The bank provided financing for Chronos, the suit said.
 Derivatives trades by Bank of America tied to improper fund trading were described in the settlement reached in September between Mr. Spitzer and Canary Capital Partners, a hedge fund managed by Edward J. Stern. The trades described in that complaint relate to another form of derivatives trading, which involved selling a portfolio of securities mimicking the holdings of the mutual fund, which would protect the hedge fund against a loss if the fund's value declined.
 But Bank of America may also have arranged total return swaps, according to a person briefed on the bank's activities.
 Many banks provided some form of derivatives financing for hedge funds engaged in frequent trading of mutual funds, said Frank Partnoy, professor of law at the University of San Diego who was a derivatives salesman in the mid-1990's. "Every derivatives desk had good order flow" from these sorts of trades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); CASH FLOW (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); CM (TSX) (91%); CM (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



186 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
US Airways Cutting Costs To Avoid Default on Loans
US Airways is at risk of defaulting on $900 million in government-backed loans unless it can quickly reduce its costs.
 The airline, which used the loans as the cornerstone of its restructuring plan when it emerged from bankruptcy last year, has retained Morgan Stanley to find buyers for a range of assets. People close to the deliberations say that it may sell its East Coast shuttle, its regional operations and gates at airports, as well as one of its hubs in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia or Charlotte, N.C. Page C5. 

Nokia Bullish on 4th-Quarter Net
Shares of Nokia soared 14 percent after the company raised its earnings and revenue estimates for the fourth quarter, citing significantly better business at its telecommunications network unit as well as improved handset sales. Nokia is scheduled to report its results on Jan. 22. The bullish estimates were the latest sign that the global telecommunications industry may be on the upswing after three troubled years. World Business, Section W.

Verizon Wireless said that it would deploy an advanced data network that will allow people to use the Internet at high speed on mobile phones and other devices. C3.

Judge to Allow Enron Guilty Plea
A judge in Houston said he would allow Lea Fastow, the wife of Enron's former chief financial officer, to plead guilty to a single tax violation, but he signaled that he had not yet decided whether he would feel bound by the agreement she reached with prosecutors on a five-month sentence. C6.

Parmalat Listed a Fake Chief
A low-level employee of Parmalat was listed as the chief executive of more than 25 affiliated companies, indicating the lengths Parmalat went to hide its finances. C4.

Bids for Strong Near $900 Million
About a dozen suitors have signaled their intention to bid as much as $900 million for the assets of Strong Capital Management. C3.

Sotheby's to Auction Faberge Eggs
Nine Imperial Faberge Easter eggs from Czarist Russia acquired by Malcolm Forbes will be sold at Sotheby's in April. A1.

Phat Fashions in $140 Million Deal
Phat Fashions, the clothing business co-founded by Russell Simmons, left, the hip-hop impresario, is being acquired by Kellwood for $140 million, plus performance incentives. The sale includes Phat Farm (the men's line) and Baby Phat (the women's line), but not Def Jam University and Run Athletics. C4.

Health Spending Soared in 2002
Health spending accounts for nearly 15 percent of the nation's economy, and was $1.55 trillion in 2002, up 9.3 percent from 2001. A16.

Exchange Board Recommends Suit
The board of the New York Stock Exchange recommended that legal action be taken against its former chairman and named a chief regulatory officer. C4.

F.D.A. Delays Decision on Implants
The Food and Drug Administration delayed its decision on whether to allow silicone breast implants onto the market, asking implant maker Inamed for more information about their safety and rate of failure. A1.

Investors File HealthSouth Suit
A lawsuit filed by investors in the stock and bonds of HealthSouth contends the outside auditors and investment bankers knew of fraudulent accounting at the health care company long before it came to light last year. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,592.44 up 63.41Nasdaq composite -- 2,100.25 up 22.5710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.25% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2763 up 0.0116The dollar -- 106.17 yen up 0.01 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures from June to November. UnemploymentDecember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.9% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Nokia A.D.R.'s shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); JUDGES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); SENTENCING (66%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (65%); EASTER SEASON (61%); RAP MUSIC (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); PARMALAT SPA (54%); STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%); PLT (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (54%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (54%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (57%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



187 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: A New Greeting at America's Door 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Politics at the Border" (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8):
 As a child of immigrants who subscribed to that old-fashioned notion of playing by the rules, I am disgusted at the idea of giving legal status to millions of illegal workers. 
 When did we start thinking that it was a good idea to reward bad behavior? In a society made great by adherence to the rule of law, I can only think that this is yet another profit-driven step on the slippery slope to our ruin.
My heart goes out to the millions of unemployed Americans and those who are underpaid thanks to the availability of cheap foreign labor.
It is great that the president is feeling compassionate for our illegal population, but compassion for working Americans who are being shoved out of plants and factories is more in order. I hope and pray that we have courageous leaders willing to stand up and do the right thing on this issue, for all our sakes. 

AMED KHAN
Suffern, N.Y., Jan. 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



188 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: A New Greeting at America's Door 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Politics at the Border" (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8) claims that President Bush's proposal to liberalize rules for immigrant workers seeks to "re-establish his credentials as a compassionate conservative." 
 Mr. Bush wants to allow immigrants to take jobs "that American citizens are not willing to take." Some might wonder why none of the nearly nine million unemployed Americans don't want the jobs involved until we remember that the $5.15 minimum wage isn't enough to bring an average family out of poverty.
Mr. Bush's idea reinforces his "conservative" (pro-employer) credentials, but without an accompanying hefty increase in the long-neglected minimum wage, it can hardly be called compassionate.

JOHN GLASEL
Hoboken, N.J., Jan. 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



189 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: A New Greeting at America's Door 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 With the economy still failing to produce enough jobs to lower unemployment to pre-recession levels, it hardly seems like a good time to open our borders to foreign guest workers (news analysis, front page, Jan. 8). 
 The president's proposal would undermine wages and keep citizen unemployment high, as rational employers would reduce wages and count on an unlimited supply of immigrant labor to fill any job that citizens leave.

JONATHAN R. SIEGEL
Washington, Jan. 8, 2004

The writer is a professor at George Washington University Law School.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Leif Parsons) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); IMMIGRATION (87%); WRITERS (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (84%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (82%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



190 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Revive the Meadowlands Is Approved 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

DATELINE: LYNDHURST, N.J., Jan. 8 

 BODY:
The New Jersey Meadowlands Commission on Thursday approved a master plan to transform 8,400 acres once known as the state's signature trash heap into an ecological preserve and the largest urban park in the region.
 The plan, several years in the making, received high praise from local and state officials and from environmentalists, who said it would preserve the sensitive Meadowlands and benefit the local economy. The 32-acre preserve, 10 times the size of Central Park, was once home to toxic landfills that contributed to the state's reputation as a waste dump. 
Susan Bass Levin, who was appointed chairwoman of the commission by Gov. James E. McGreevey, recalled that when she was growing up in nearby Saddle Brook, "we closed our windows when the winds would blow from the east." 
"For too long, it was known as a smelly dumping ground, not the national treasure that it is today," Ms. Levin said.
The plan calls for a balance between economic development and environmental preservation in a broad swath of land that includes parts of 14 cities in Bergen and Hudson counties, two miles from the Lincoln Tunnel. The area includes a busy hub of warehouses and sports and entertainment sites along Route 3 and the New Jersey Turnpike, and acres of delicate marshland grasses that grow taller than a man's head, which were disappearing until a few years ago.
"The war over the Meadowlands is over," said Capt. Bill Sheehan, the executive director of Hackensack Riverkeeper, an environmental group, who was credited by many at Thursday's meeting with being a leader of the efforts to preserve the area. "We are now policing the place."
The approval of the plan is the culmination of years of planning and cooperation among scores of federal, state and local agencies and varying economic and environmental interests. The effort began in 1969 when the state first called for a master plan. 
"It took a whole change in mind-set, a change in the culture of this organization," said Robert R. Ceberio, an environmentalist, who was named executive director of the commission by Governor McGreevey two years ago. It was under Ms. Levin's leadership, Mr. Ceberio said, that the different constituents vying for a piece of the Meadowlands came together and agreed to abide by one planning document.
The commission now owns or controls 3,600 acres of the parcel, and plans to acquire more, which will be put into a special trust. The master plan calls for preserving much of the land and revitalizing those areas that were blighted by pollution or overdevelopment. 
The plan's zoning regulations, which will govern planning for the next 25 years, will allow 24 million square feet of commercial space and 2,750 hotel rooms. When added to other redevelopment initiatives already under way, officials said, the regulations will help add $73.1 million and 56,000 jobs to the area's economy.
One of the projects already in the planning stages is the $1.4 billion Meadlowlands Xanadu sports and entertainment complex, to be built on the current site of the Continental Airlines Arena. That project was approved last month by the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority.
The plan received some criticism because officials have yet to work out details on the transportation aspect to make sure the ecological preserve is not disturbed by the burdens of future traffic needs. Ms. Levin said it could be several months before a transportation plan is adopted, after public hearings are held.
"The last thing the Meadowlands needs is more cars and trucks," said Jennifer Siegel, the New Jersey coordinator for the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a regional planning group. Ms. Siegel said there were too many unknowns aboutthe impact of traffic changes in the area.
Commission officials said they would meet with Ms. Siegel's organization to discuss transportation concerns before approving a plan. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the New Jersey Meadowlands Commission's approval of a plan to create an ecological preserve 10 times the size of Central Park misstated the size of the preserve at one point. It would be 8,400 acres, not 32.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



191 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW; 
'D Troit'

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Gigantic ArtSpace
59 Franklin Street, TriBeCa
Through Jan. 31
 Gigantic ArtSpace, a new gallery in TriBeCa, makes a winning debut with this group exhibition based on the image of an all-American city with a shaky reputation. The Detroit most non-Detroiters know -- and the one represented here -- is a former industrial capital seriously on the skids, its buildings crumbling, its population depleted after decades of white flight. Like most cities, Detroit is actually a more complicated and more ordinary place than that picture suggests. But a lot of what makes it dynamic comes across in the show, which also includes one of the best individual pieces I have seen in a gallery this season. 
 Innovative pop music -- from Motown, early punk and techno to a recent garage rock revival -- is surely post-industrial Detroit's best-known export, and it is right at the center of the exhibition, in a listening station with an 18-hour-long sampling of songs compiled by the music journalist Mike Rubin. Around the station is art by nine artists, all but one of them past or present Detroit residents.
Doug Coombe, a freelance photographer, documents a monument of distressed architecture in a shot of the city's Michigan Central train station. So, in a different way, does Thomas Rapai in paintings of roadside motels that suggest mausoleums. A world of street-based pop art is summed up in copies of Motorbooty Magazine, created by Mark Dancey, a former rocker, and in storyboards by the graphic artist Kenjji, a founder of Griot Comics, who brings superheroes and social dysfunction together in his deft drawings.
Similar dualities play out elsewhere in the show, organized by Trevor Schoonmaker, a sharp young independent curator. Mark Powell's photographic portraits of Detroiters have a kind of antiheroic glamour, while multimedia silkscreen pieces by Thom Klepach and a video by Susan Cook address a long local history of incendiary racial tension.
Among the show's most moving entries is a video by Nicole Cattell about the sculptor and painter Tyree Guyton; beginning in 1986 and using found materials, he transformed blocks of abandoned houses on Detroit's East Side into extended pieces of open-air assemblage. Despite the city government, which bulldozed the project more than once, Mr. Guyton's work of urban renewal goes on. It's fantastic.
So is the video "Hot Irons" by Andrew Dosunmu, an artist born in London and raised in Nigeria. Although he has no personal connection to Detroit, his 50-minute film records one of the city's more intriguing events, the Hair Wars convention, a kind of battle of the bands for African-American hairstyling.
With a soundtrack of Motown, Nina Simone and Jessye Norman singing Strauss; interviews with a smart and funny cast of stylists, models and fashionistas; and a glimpse at some of the most out-there style statements imaginable -- wait till you see Miss Solar System -- the film is genius.
It won the Best Documentary award at Fespaco, Africa's largest film festival, in 1999 and comes to the New York art world, often the last stop on the international culture express, only now. By itself, it makes "D Troit" something not to miss. HOLLAND COTTER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CITIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); MUSIC (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); SCULPTURE (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HISTORY (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (71%); VISUAL ARTS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); WRITERS (67%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



192 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
DAME, DR. ENID SUE JACOBS

 BODY:
 DAME--Dr. Enid Sue Jacobs. It is with the deepest regret that we mourn the passing on December 25, 2003 of a poet, editor, teacher, essayist and Jewish feminist whose life and work was a paradigm of character, courage and compassion. 
She received her baccalaureate from Towson State College, Maryland, her Master's from City College of New York, and her Ph.D from Rutgers University. As a teacher she was revered by her students for her concern and sensitivity. As a poet her work was widely published and anthologized, and her readings well-received and attended. She was considered by several national critics to be one of the ten best Jewish poets in America and was a runner-up for Poet Laureate of Brooklyn. Her last national featured reading was in Ann Arbor, Michigan; her last tristate reading was at Poets and Teachers in Union Square, Manhattan. Her work combined nostalgia and humor with poignancy and purpose. Her early work featured characters such as Lilith, Superwoman and Vilda Chaya, a wild woman who sought counsel from cats and plants even as she climbed down the economic ladder. Enid Dame inherited her political activism and a desire for justice and truth from her parents, the late Morton and Bernice Jacobs. She is survived by her husband, Donald Lev, with whom she founded Home Planet News, which recently celebrated its 25th year of publication. All who knew Enid loved her for her grace, charm, humor and intelligence. She was always glad to meet friends and always went out of her way to support them. She is also survived by her brother, Philip Jacobs, his wife, Lisa and their two daughters Diana and Emily. Adieu mon amie, ma soeur, ma belle. Namaste. Careufel de Lamiere 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); POETRY (91%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%) 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON:  DAME, DR. ENID SUE JACOBS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



193 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Plan May Lure More to Enter U.S. Illegally, Experts Say 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
When President Ronald Reagan signed into law the last great shake-up in immigration policy, his goal was to stop the flow of illegal immigrants. The flow increased instead, and that may be the response to President Bush's guest worker plan, if Congress enacts it, various experts say.
 The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 offered amnesty and legal status to illegal immigrants already in the United States, or most of them. Having cleared the decks with this provision, the law sought to discourage future illegal entry by imposing penalties on employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants. 
 But foreigners saw in the 1986 act an invitation, not a deterrent, said Stephen Trejo, a labor economist and immigration expert at the University of Texas. "The biggest long-term impact of the 1986 law was the idea that maybe there will be periodic amnesties, and even if I come to the United States illegally, there is a good chance I'll be able to legalize my status while I am there," Mr. Trejo said. 
The 1986 law offered green cards to illegal immigrants who had entered the country before 1982. Over the next four years, 2.7 million green cards went to illegal immigrants already in the country and in some cases to spouses and children still abroad, according to data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. 
But the chief deterrents, employer penalties and stepped-up border patrol, failed to stem illegal immigration, and today illegal immigrants number 7 million or more, according to most estimates. By 1990, the proportion of foreign-born adults in the work force, legal and illegal, had risen to 9.3 percent from 7 percent in 1980 and by 2000, this group represented 12.3 percent of the nation's workers, the Labor Department reports.
The employer penalties were hard to enforce. Employers could be fined up to $10,000 for multiple offenses, and even imprisoned. But to avoid punishment, an employer needed only to check a job candidate's documents, not the authenticity of the documents. Soon, on the streets of Chicago, for example, a forged Social Security card could be purchased for less than $100. 
"The employer sanctions, introduced for the first time in that bill, were a joke," said George Borjas, an economist and immigration expert at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
What helped to doom the Reagan approach in 1986 was the failure to create a legal avenue for unskilled immigrants to enter the United States and take low-wage jobs. Various visa programs brought in skilled workers, but not the unskilled, despite strong demand to fill openings at hotels and restaurants, in nursing homes and home health care, and in landscaping, child care, housekeeping and light manufacturing.
The plan proposed by President Bush on Wednesday would open such an avenue, said Theresa Brown, director of immigration policy for the United States Chamber of Commerce. "If I am a worker in Mexico and I want to come to the United States and there is a legal visa available for me to do that, why would I not choose that route," she said.
But would potential applicants in Mexico and in Central and South America, the sources of most illegal immigration, take this newly opened legal avenue, and apply to enter the United States as guest workers? That depends on the program's design as the Bush proposal works its way through Congress, Ms. Brown said.
But Mr. Borjas said he was doubtful that illegal immigration would be curtailed substantially. Some will shun registering because of the risk of deportation once their guest worker status expires, he said, and many others will feel compelled to come to the United States, job or no job. 
"Being without work here is still far better for most people than being employed in Central America," Mr. Borjas said, adding, "There is nothing in this proposal that will prevent us from having to revisit the issue once again 10 years from now." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AMNESTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (62%); NURSING HOMES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



194 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Experts Skeptical of Bloomberg Tax Rebate 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
As Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled his proposal yesterday to send $400 property tax rebate checks to city homeowners, taxpayers exulted but some fiscal experts questioned whether the move was good policy.
 Some worried about the affordability of a proposal that would cost the city $250 million, when its deficit is already projected at nearly $2 billion for the next fiscal year. Others worried that the tax rebate could weaken the city's bargaining hand as it tries to wrest more school aid and Medicaid relief from Albany and concessions from unions. 
 And some noted that by singling out the owners of homes, co-ops and condos for tax relief, the mayor's proposal would widen the inequities of a tax structure that already vastly favors small homeowners over the owners of commercialbuildings. 
As Mayor Bloomberg outlined the tax rebate proposal yesterday in his third State of the City Address, he acknowledged that the city was not yet out of the fiscal woods. But he said that "we're close enough to the edge of the forest that we can begin to reduce the tax burden on the New Yorkers who have sacrificed the most."
"It's the right thing to do," Mr. Bloomberg said at Silvercup Studios, a television and film studio in Long Island City, Queens, where he spoke to an audience of 800.
For homeowners, the rebate would essentially erase the effects of the 18.5 percent property tax increase that Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council enacted in 2002. The tax increase helped the city close multibillion-dollar budget gaps without severe service cuts and helped the city preserve its bond ratings in the midst of a fiscal crisis. But after raising the tax Mayor Bloomberg saw his popularity plummet to record lows.
While the mayor's call to send out rebate checks pleased taxpayers and befuddled political opponents, who were left praising the move with varying degrees of enthusiasm, some fiscal analysts questioned how the city will be able to afford it. 
"Our concern is, is this affordable in the context of the city's still-stressed budget position," said Robert A. Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service, a bond rating agency. 
While the city's economy is improving, and tax revenues are beginning to pour into the city's coffers at a higher rate than city officials originally predicted, experts noted in interviews that the city still had serious fiscal concerns. It has $44 billion in outstanding debt that costs it more each year to pay off, and its pension and health care costs are sharply rising. 
On top of that, several risk factors could worsen its deficit. The city and the state are battling in court over a plan to have the state pay back the city's remaining debt from the 1970's; a loss in court could cost the city half a billion dollars a year. The city has not included money in its budget to pay for raises for its work force, arguing that they should be paid for by productivity increases. Analysts question whether that is likely.
Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said that the mayor would explain next week how he plans to pay for the rebate when he presents his preliminary budget plan for the fiscal year that will begin in July.
"Obviously the mayor will propose a balanced budget," he said yesterday.
City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., a Democrat who has expressed interest in running against the mayor in 2005, said that he was in favor of the rebate plan even though the city's expenses are still outpacing its revenues.
"We all acknowledge that there is a structural imbalance in the city's budget," he said. "There are still certain costs that continue to escalate, outside of the city's control, in spite of the fact that you continue to reduce costs in other areas."
Several officials worried that the proposal would only widen the inequities in the city's property tax structure. 
"It throws the inequities in the property tax system more out of whack," said Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed fiscal watchdog group. 
The median effective tax rate for one- to-three-family homes, for example, is 73 cents per $100 in assessed valuation, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. For commercial properties -- factories, office buildings and stores -- it is $4.87 per $100.
So while one- to-three-family homes make up nearly half the market value of real estate in the city, they account for only 13.4 percent of the city's property taxes. And while commercial properties make up just over a quarter of the value of real estate in the city, their owners pay nearly 44 percent of the property taxes, the budget office said.
The rebate will only widen that disparity. Ms. Fortuna said that the fact that commercial buildings pay a large share of the property taxes can make the city less competitive for businesses. 
Owners of one-family homes, who paid an average of $366 more in property taxes because of the 18.5 percent increase, will come out ahead after the $400 rebate checks, according to the Independent Budget Office. But the $400 rebate will not necessarily wipe out the increase for condo owners, who paid an average increase of $741, or for co-op owners, who paid an average increase of $585, the budget office said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg giving his State of the City Address. He proposed an average $400 tax rebate next year for owners of homes, condos and co-ops. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX RELIEF (91%); HOMEOWNERS (91%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BONDS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); MEDICAID (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (65%); SALES REBATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



195 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Helicopter Crash in Iraq Kills 9 U.S. Soldiers
An American Black Hawk helicopter crashed near Falluja, killing all nine soldiers aboard. The United States military said the cause was still under investigation, but witnesses near the wreckage said the helicopter had been downed by a missile. A1

The Bush administration is being forced to take sides in several internal Iraqi disputes and running into friction with groups long friendly to Washington, after insisting for months that Iraqis must determine their future under a kind of passive American supervision. A10

The American military announced the start of its largest troop movement in decades, with plans to send more than 240,000 troops to Iraq. A10

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell conceded that, despite his assertions to the United Nations last year, he had no "smoking gun" proof of a link between the government of Saddam Hussein and Qaeda terrorists. A10

Taliban Back on Offensive
The Taliban have returned to the offensive in southern Afghanistan with a string of attacks that have killed at least 27 people in three days, Afghan officials said. A8

Anti-Semitism Conference
The European Commission agreed to revive planning for a conference on anti-Semitism that it suspended after accusations from European and American Jewish figures that some of the commission's own recent decisions were anti-Semitic. A6

Earthquake Survivor Found
A 57-year-old man buried by rubble in an earthquake almost two weeks ago in the Iranian city of Bam was rescued, state TV reported. A8

Libya to Pay Compensation
Libya is expected to sign a deal today to pay additional compensation to the families of 170 people killed in the 1989 bombing of a French airliner. A6

NATIONAL A12-17

Bush Set to Announce Human Space Missions
President Bush will make a speech next week outlining a major new space initiative, the White House said. Administration officials have said they anticipated that Mr. Bush would propose a program with the aim of establishing a manned based on the Moon as a prelude to sending humans to Mars. A1

Health Care Spending Rise
Health spending now accounts for nearly 15 percent of the nation's economy, totaling $1.55 trillion, the largest share on record, the Bush administration said. A16

Kidnapped Girls Found Alive
A man who officials say abducted three little girls after killing three in-laws and his own 10-month-old daughter was found with a critical gunshot wound after a brief chase near the Georgia-Tennessee line. A12

Financial Sector Backs Bush
A new study shows that employees and political action committees of brokerages, banks and credit companies make up six of President Bush's top 10 career contributors. A14

Decline in Terror Threats
The administration has seen a downturn in what it considers credible terrorist threats and is considering lowering the nation's threat status. A12

EDUCATION

Curbing Social Promotion
New York City plans to impose strict promotion requirements for third graders that education officials said would result one in five children being forced to repeat the grade, four times as many as are left back now. A1

Push for Education Spending
President Bush said he would propose increased spending on a number of education programs in the budget he sends to Congress. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Harlem Choir's Founder Is Asked to Resign
The board of directors for the Boys Choir of Harlem asked for the resignation of the founder and director of the group, who defended himself to reporters. The board acted after a memorandum was sent by investigators in a case that involved an administrator convicted of sexual abuse of a student in the choir's academy. A1

Support for Same-Sex Bill
The New Jersey State Senate passed by a 23-to-9 vote a measure to give recognition to same-sex domestic partnerships. Gov. James E. McGreevey has said he was eager to sign it. New Jersey would be the fifth state to recognize domestic partnership in some form. B1

Neediest Cases B7

WEEKEND E1-38; E39-48

ESCAPES F1-10

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES B7-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

F.D.A. Delays Implant Decision
The Food and Drug Administration said it will delay its decision on whether to allow silicone breast implants back onto the market, citing the need for more information. A1

More PCB's in Farmed Salmon
A new study of fillets from 700 salmon, wild and farmed, finds that the farmed fish consistently have more contaminants, but at levels far below federal guidelines. A12

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Conflict for Monsanto Judge
A Federal judge presiding over a price-fixing case involving Monsanto represented the company in a similar case in 1997 and 1998, raising conflict of interest questions. C1

New Fund Investigation
The New York attorney general and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating whether some banks financed improper mutual fund trades by hedge funds. C1

Hewlett Strikes iPod Deal
Hewlett-Packard said that it would begin selling a version of Apple's iPod digital music player and bundling Apple's iTunes online music store with its personal computers. C1

Holiday Shopping Results
Sales at stores open more than a year rose 3.7 percent in December, but it was a disappointing holiday season for many retailers. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Kurdish autonomy in Iraq; putting the sex trade on notice; the bishops seek recovery; an optimistic state of the city.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E35
TV Listings E36
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (83%); SHOOTINGS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); SPACE EXPLORATION (62%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (61%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



196 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: An Optimistic State of the City 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg has rarely seemed so peppy and upbeat as he did yesterday, when he promised each New York homeowner a $400 property-tax rebate this year. That would cost the city $250 million -- a hefty chunk when the coming budget shortfall could be $2 billion.
 The promise, offered in the State of the City address, was trumpeted in a kind of "Everything's Coming Up Roses" manner. The mayor hailed the city's falling crime rate, the decrease in unemployment, the cleaner streets, the reductions in traffic accidents and the help given to children and the elderly. He noted that 20,000 homeless people were put into permanent shelters last year. Wall Street, he said, had the best showing in three years, which helped generate hundreds of millions of dollars in additional city revenue. 
 It was brave of Mr. Bloomberg to push through hefty tax increases last year to keep city services running, and take the huge blow to his popularity that followed. No one could blame him for wanting to use the first new money he gets his hands on to repair the damage to his poll numbers, especially since he is up for re-election in 2005. But the tax rebates could pose a problem when it comes time to balance the next budget. It will give labor unions ammunition when they fight against givebacks, which the administration has maintained it needs. And Albany -- which must approve the rebate -- has in the past been reluctant to offer any special aid to local politicians who have cut taxes. When political credit for cutting taxes is handed out, state legislators want it to go to them, not to any mayor.
Mr. Bloomberg reminded the city that he had also promised that other tax bites from last year would disappear according to a set timetable. That means revenue from a higher surcharge on personal income tax will begin to dwindle this year, and the sales tax will disappear on clothing under $100. Meanwhile, the city is hurtling toward budget gaps of $2 billion in the next budget, and $4 billion after that. It's easy to see why Mr. Bloomberg is eager to woo the city's homeowners with substantial rebate checks. But it's hard to believe that the city can keep paying for services while delivering the entire menu of tax cuts outlined by the mayor as well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (75%); CRIME RATES (70%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); INCOME TAX (62%); SALES REBATES (58%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



197 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Latin Allies of the U.S.: Docile and Reliable No Longer 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
The United States, which has often viewed most nations of Latin America as reliable and docile allies, is increasingly facing resentment over security and trade policies that some of them view as inimical to their interests.
 When President Bush travels to Mexico next week to confer with leaders from throughout the hemisphere, he will meet a more assertive Latin America. It is a region that spurned Washington on the war in Iraq, is demanding better treatment for immigrant workers and continues to block a hemispheric trade agreement that some nations, led by Brazil, view as unfair. 
 Mr. Bush will try to patch up relations with his Mexican counterpart, Vicente Fox, by presenting his new proposals to normalize immigration between the two countries and ease the plight of millions of illegal workers in this country. Mr. Fox's political standing at home has been undercut by his failure to win action from Mr. Bush on immigration. 
But immigration is just one element in a series of pent-up issues, and largely irrelevant to the rest of the region, which is grappling with weak economies, corruption, crime and anemic trade. Many nations look to Mr. Bush to invigorate economic development and help them emerge from political crises in places like Venezuela, Haiti, Colombia and Bolivia.
Arturo Valenzuela, a senior White House aide on Latin America in the Clinton administration, called the new Bush immigration proposal "a very significant boost for the relationship with Mexico." But he added, "It's a wash or a negative for the other nations of the hemisphere."
Mr. Bush, who speaks Spanish and grew familiar with Latin American issues during his tenure as Texas governor, came into office promising to improve relations with the countries of the region. He began his presidency by emphasizing his friendship with Mr. Fox. Since Sept. 11, 2001, however, Mr. Bush's attention has been focused on other regions. One expert described the president's visit to Monterrey, Mexico, the site of the next week's meeting, as "a second coming out" in the neighborhood. 
Latin American leaders say they are newly pragmatic in their relations with the United States. They are also unafraid to challenge Washington, even in the face of considerable pressure.
The most pointed example of such independence was the refusal of most Latin American nations to support the American-led war in Iraq. In the United Nations Security Council, Chile and Mexico opposed a resolution authorizing force in Iraq, and only 7 out of 33 Latin American and Caribbean nations supported military action.
In Latin America, there was broad, popular resistance to an American strategy that was seen as unilateral and pre-emptive. Ill will from that standoff lingers, both in Latin America and in the United States, which has long taken regional support for granted.
Gabriel Marcella, a Latin America expert at the United States Army War College, said that Latin Americans "were asked by the United States to support a preventive war."
"They did not," he said. "The ugly head of unilateralism seemed to reappear."
Peter Hakim, the president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a forum for hemisphere leaders, said: "I don't think you can overestimate the damage to the U.S.-Mexican relations. No relationship was more damaged, with the possible exception of France."
After months of giving President Fox the cold shoulder, Mr. Bush's action on immigration may foretell an end to the tensions, particularly since Mr. Bush is taking a political risk by angering anti-immigration Republicans.
Mexico's ambassador to Washington, Juan Jose Bremer Martino, said this week that his country had worked closely with the Bush administration to address most of its concerns on security, most of them regarding border issues. The disagreement over Iraq, he said, is part of the past.
"This issue has been left behind," he said. "Our cooperation in the field of security has been outstanding." 
After Chile joined Mexico in opposition to the war, Washington delayed approval of a free trade agreement. The agreement was later signed.
Colombia ran into trouble with the administration on the issue of the International Criminal Court. When Bogota balked at signing an exemption from prosecution for American personnel, the administration withheld some aid and threatened to cut off $160 million more. Colombia, which gets more American aid than any other country except Israel and Egypt, eventually acceded.
Argentina, which was the only Latin American nation to take part in the Persian Gulf war in 1991 and was later designated a major non-NATO ally, found itself in a spat with the administration this week over ties with Cuba. When Roger Noriega, the assistant secretary of state for Latin America, criticized Argentina's warming relationship with Cuba, the reaction from Buenos Aires was swift and indignant, with one cabinet official declaring that the days of "automatic alignments" with Washington were over.
The administration has clashed repeatedly with Brazil, South America's largest country. The disagreements have resulted in a stalemate over what is probably the most widely sought project in the hemisphere: the establishment of a free trade area from Alaska to Argentina by next year.
When Brazil led nations in insisting that American farm subsidies and steel protections be included in trade negotiations, Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, lashed out at what he termed "won't do" nations. But Brazil held its ground, and the two nations settled on a watered-down agreement that set aside the most sensitive issues.
"Brazil is severely penalized by restrictions in the United States," said Rubens Barbosa, Brazil's ambassador to Washington. 
On the security front, Brazil has been equally adamant. When the administration began requiring photos and fingerprints of foreign visitors who are from countries that require visas to United States, a Brazilian judge took umbrage and ordered the same treatment for American visitors to Brazil.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell on Thursday argued that Brazil's action was discriminatory, while the administration's position was universal, with admitted exceptions. After speaking with his Brazilian counterpart, he said an end to the dispute was in sight, with Brazil moving to modify the judge's instructions. 
In the absence of a grand bargain on trade, the Bush administration has pursued bilateral and multilateral pacts with regional blocs. Central American nations were among the first to sign a free trade agreement, called Cafta, last month.
But some experts said Cafta merely pointed up the asymmetrical relationship that the United States has with its neighbors. The deal largely protected trade benefits the Central Americans already have, said Nancy Birdsall, the president of the Center for Global Development. 
"They have such a weak negotiating position with the United States," Ms. Birdsall said. "They're desperate to stay in the club."
Still, for some individuals, the cost of membership is too high.
Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, who served as Mexico's ambassador to the United Nations throughout the debate on war in Iraq, gave a speech in November that asserted that the United States sought a subservient relationship with Mexico.
"It sees us as a backyard," he said.
Mr. Aguilar Zinser was promptly fired, Mexican officials said -- under pressure from the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ARMIES (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (97%); MEXICO (95%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



198 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: IOWA; 
Tide of Second Thoughts Rises Among Democrats

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and CARL HULSE; Michael McElroy contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: NEWTON, Iowa, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Only a few weeks ago, Jenny Briggs, an Iowa State University graduate, was all set to enthusiastically support Howard Dean in the caucuses. But now, with the vote 11 days away, Ms. Briggs said she is having second thoughts as she watches Dr. Dean stumble through his difficult days of the presidential contest.
 "I had listened to him on TV, and I thought he sounded pretty good," Ms. Briggs said, standing in the town square in Newton, Iowa. "It turned out he was too good to be true." 
 She said she grimaced when Dr. Dean, in what she described as an act of arrogance, declared at a debate in Des Moines on Sunday that he would balance the budget "in the sixth or seventh year of my administration," and then looked befuddled when his audience broke out laughing. 
"I think Dean has turned a lot of people off by acting cocky," she said.
Ms. Briggs does not appear to be alone.
Democratic leaders in Iowa say that in a contest that is notoriously difficult to measure with polls, Dr. Dean is the dominant candidate, and they are struck by the powerful commitment of his supporters.
Still, in dozens of conversations with voters across central Iowa over the past three days, it became clear that some Democrats are taking a second look at the doctor from Vermont whose candidacy has transformed the Democratic presidential contest.
Such qualms could benefit Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. Both were often mentioned by voters as strong alternatives to Dr. Dean. 
"I don't know why, but there is just something that makes me uncomfortable about Dean," Laura Sims of Webster City said on Thursday.
In Baxter, after a town hall meeting with Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Al Flyer, an I.R.S. agent, said that among Democratic voters, there was a "little bit of mistrust there" toward Dr. Dean.
"It's what you see is not what you get," said Mr. Flyer, who added that he had not decided whom to support.
At the same time, Democrats in the interviews expressed weariness about a campaign that many said had gone on too long and had overwhelmed them with mail and automatic telephone calls. More than a few described the contest as grating in tone and texture. And in an electoral environment where animosity toward President Bush is matched only by the sense that he cannot be defeated, many Democrats expressed concern that the warfare among the candidates was making a hopeless cause all the more hopeless.
Indeed, several Democrats praised Mr. Edwards for largely avoiding the animosity, and said they would reward him with their votes.
"All these attacks on Dean -- if Dean is the nominee -- are going to come back to haunt us," said Dorraine Schuling of Altoona. Ms. Schuling, a state worker, said she had dropped her support for Dr. Dean and had traveled to east Des Moines to see Mr. Edwards speak.
Sue Nading, 38, standing in an antique shop in Cedar Rapids, likened the candidates to a "swarm of bees."
"Right now they are too busy taking pot shots and saying why they should be considered over this other yahoo," Ms. Nading said. "It is fracturing the party and making Democrats look like we're dervishes."
Given that Dr. Dean has drawn many new Democrats into the process, and given the intensity of his supporters, no one in Iowa is suggesting he is in serious trouble now. Among the campaigns now conducting nightly counts of supporters, there is a rough consensus that Dr. Dean is in front, followed by Mr. Gephardt, with Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards fighting it out for third.
In Des Moines, a stronghold for Dr. Dean, Nick Colacino, 80, a retired postal worker, dismissed the attacks on Dr. Dean and said that if anything, they made him more likely to turn out for his candidate.
"He's the favorite and they are trying to bust him down," Mr. Colacino said. "I made up my mind a long time ago that I was going to vote for him."
Yet the concerns voiced in interviews come during a rough month for Dr. Dean: what his own aides have described as political missteps -- such as saying that the capture of Saddam Hussein had not made the United States safer -- have coincided with a stretch of time when many voters in Iowa are making decisions. Today, the campaign was confronted with an NBC News report about critical statements Dr. Dean made about the Iowa caucus system in a television interview four years ago.
Dr. Dean's advisers have been watching for signs of deterioration in his standing, a difficult thing to measure in Iowa because of the unusual nature of the caucuses, all the more so this year given the number of new voters Dr. Dean has brought into the process.
Polls and the interviews suggest that Mr. Gephardt, with his base of union backers, old-line Iowans and elderly voters, enjoys an unwavering if different field of support. 
"I like Gephardt because I think he is a labor man," Wilma Hansen, a retired worker at the Maytag plant, which has its headquarters in Newton, said as she ate at the Maid-Rite diner.
In Baxter, Mr. Flyer said he was considering Mr. Gephardt after hearing Mr. Gephardt speak, though the I.R.S. agent suggested that enthusiasm for the Missouri Democrat was not quite electric. 
"No one says anything bad about him," Mr. Flyer said. "He's a strong second."
If Dr. Dean shows signs of polarizing voters -- inspiring strong feelings from supporters and detractors -- Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry appear to be emerging as comfortable alternatives.
"I personally kind of like John Edwards," said Jackie Tierney, 43, a mother of three. "He seems a little more positive and a little bit more friendly and approachable than some of the others."
Mr. Edwards's potential, though, is limited, many Democrats say, by the fact that he does not have the kind of organization needed to win a caucus. By contrast, Mr. Kerry has methodically built an organization that many Democrats say might compensate for what even his supporters concede have been Mr. Kerry's shortcomings as a candidate.
None of the candidates stirred as intense emotions as Dr. Dean did.
"I think he is too radical," David Martin, a retiree in Fort Dodge visiting a home supply store, said on Thursday. "I think if we follow him, our tax bill is going to go way up."
Gai Neurohr, 50, the proprietor of an antique store in Cedar Rapids, said: "The debates showed me I really didn't like Dean. The first one I ever watched, he just got so hot-tempered and I didn't like that."
But several Democrats said they admired the way Dr. Deanhad held his own in the face of attacks from rivals at the debate on Sunday, and they said that spoke well to how he might endure a general election campaign against Mr. Bush.
"Dean has weathered his attacks quite well," said Elaine Mattingly, who owns a bookstore in Newton with her husband.
Whether it all matters is another question. In Webster County, some of the voters interviewed were not interested in the Democratic field at all, expressing strong satisfaction with President Bush.
"I am pretty happy with Bush," said Peter Lann, 60, of Fort Dodge, an unemployed cook whose son is serving in the Navy as a salvage diver. "At least he has done something."
Can Mr. Bush be beaten? "That's a real hard question," Mrs. Hansen, the retired Maytag worker, said in Newton. "Because, um, no."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe Briggs and his daughter Jenny in Newton, Iowa. She said she had been a supporter of Howard Dean but was having second thoughts.; Wilma Hansen, a retired Maytag plant worker, in downtown Newton. "I like Gephardt because I think he is a labor man," she said.; John and Elaine Mattingly, who own a bookstore in downtown Newton. "Dean has weathered his attacks quite well," she said. (Photographs by Mark Kegans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); BUDGETS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



199 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; 
Kerry Seeks Momentum From Focus on Experience

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: DOVER, N.H., Jan. 8 

 BODY:
He bellows in outrage at what has become of his country in three short years, at the upside-down ethos of cronyism and unfairness that he says has taken hold in the White House.
 He vows to rescue the economy, education, health care and the environment. He says he will take back the flag for Democrats and take the fight to the Republicans as only adecorated war veteran and seasoned foreign policy hand could. 
 And yet, in the climax of his forceful, upbeat stump speech these days, after the stentorian rebukes of President Bush and the scornful derision of Howard Dean, there remains a plaintive note in Senator John Kerry's appeal to voters.
In increasingly crowded gymnasiums, meeting halls and diners, Mr. Kerry all but pleads with Democrats to see past the more electric appeal of Dr. Dean, his chief rival, to heed their brains and not their hearts, to avoid what Mr. Kerry warns would be a catastrophic mistake for the party and the country: making Dr. Dean the Democratic standard-bearer in November: 
"When you go to those caucuses on the 19th, don't go and just send America a message," Senator Kerry urges. "Go and send America a president of the United States."
The line captures so much of Mr. Kerry's outlook: the certainty that he, more than any Democrat, is ready to be president, that he has the greatest "breadth, and depth, and length of experience" in international and domestic affairs.
It conveys his conviction that Dr. Dean would be "eviscerated" in a general election, giving Democrats who support him in the primary the short-lived satisfaction of a primal scream followed by four more years of Republican-inflicted misery.
The line deliberately plays, as well, to the many supporters who see in Mr. Kerry's height, silver mane and long, craggy face a candidate for Mount Rushmore. "Put a beard on him and he's Abraham Lincoln," a woman in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, said after meeting him.
For all the optimism that is fueling Mr. Kerry's late drive, though, the send-America-a-president line also holds a hint of wistfulness. Not so many months ago, after all, he had little reason to fear that voters might see a message, or a messenger, in Dr. Dean.
Mr. Kerry does not easily arouse passions the way Dr. Dean can with his staccato sentences and pugnacious one-liners. If Dr. Dean is a candidate for the millisecond-attention-span generation, Mr. Kerry seems most comfortable when he sounds like a 19th-century orator.
Sniping among the campaigns is "the hurly-burly." Republicans will exploit the gaps in Dr. Dean's experience "to a fare-thee-well." He extemporizes in fully formed paragraphs. His answers to questions typically take six to eight minutes. Working with a prepared text, Dr. Dean drops whole sections, and Mr. Kerry adds them.
When he tries to connect with listeners, Mr. Kerry often sounds like an old-time traveling salesman. "I say to you," he begins when he wishes to emphasize. "My friends," he will say, to reassure. "I tell you what I'm gonna do," he promises, before sketching out his ideas.
He has ideas galore.
"We're going to go to the Moon right here on Earth," he says, outlining his 10-year plan to liberate the country from its reliance on fossil fuels and create 500,000 jobs in the process: "Because never should young Americans in uniform be held hostage to America's dependence on oil from the Mideast."
He pledges to deliver health insurance once and for all, by taking catastrophic cases out of private insurance risk pools, lowering premiums for workers and employers, covering all children through Medicaid, letting adults 55 and over buy into Medicare early and letting anyone buy into the health care plan for federal employees.
"This is personal to me," he says, telling audiences of his prostate cancer surgery last year. "I'm cured because I had great health care, for two reasons: I had money and could afford it, and I'm a United States senator, and senators and congressmen give themselves, thanks to you, a pretty good health care plan."
He promises a "0-to-8" program of health care and education for young children, "because it's time in America that instead of spending $50,000 a year to lock young people up for the rest of their lives, that we spend $10,000 a year for Early Start, Smart Start, Head Start, early childhood education," he says. "We're going to hold George Bush accountable for making a mockery of the words 'leave no child behind.' "
Mr. Kerry says he will pay back young people for two years of community service with four years of free college tuition. That he will pay for his program by rolling back tax cuts for the rich. He talks of incentives for job creation, of crackdowns on companies moving jobs overseas, of cutting the budget deficit in half in four years.
And he vows to go to the United Nations soon after taking office and "turn over a proud new chapter in America's relationship with the world."
To hear Mr. Kerry tell it, the world's most complex problems are simple, or at least easily manageable. Their solutions require little more than common sense, effort, engagement and the kind of Rolodex of international leaders he has been amassing for decades. 
"It's Foreign Policy 101, folks," Senator Kerry says of the wrong-headedness of the United States occupying any Middle-Eastern country. It's no wonder, he says, that North Korea is pursuing its nuclear program, because America declared a doctrine of preemptive war, invaded Iraq and began developing bunker-busting nuclear weapons, all while refusing to negotiate. "What a wasteful, stupid way to conduct foreign policy," he said in Jefferson, Iowa.
For Mr. Kerry, ideas are important, but the record makes the man. Want someone to stand up to the special interests, to the powerful, to the Republicans in Congress? He has done it, he says. 
"I've led the fights to stop Newt Gingrich from destroying the Clean Air Act, and Clean Water Act," he said in Algona, Iowa. "I led the fight, which I'm proud to say we won, to stop them from drilling in the Arctic Wildlife Refuge." Just as he says he "led the fight" for Democrats against Oliver North, Manuel Noriega and Ferdinand Marcos.
None too implicit in Mr. Kerry's emphasis on his experience is that Dr. Dean lacks foreign policy and military experience, while Wesley K. Clark, who is challenging Mr. Kerry for second place in some New Hampshire polls, lacks domestic experience.
His own experience, Mr. Kerry says, is precisely why he would be best prepared to face President Bush in November.
"George Bush announced that he wants national security to be the central issue of this campaign," Mr. Kerry said Wednesday night in Merrimack, N.H., lampooning the president's "mission accomplished" moment last year: "Well, I know something about aircraft carriers for real. And if he wants it to be the central issue of this campaign, I've got three words for him that I know he understands."
The Kerry fans in the audience of nearly 300 people were already shouting the words:
"Bring it on!"
This is the second article of a series looking at the basic campaign speeches of the presidential candidates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry peppers his speeches with derision of President Bush and Howard Dean. On Saturday he appeared in Pleasant Hill, Iowa. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (52%) IOWA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 



200 of 782 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Offers Coming Attractions on Safety, Taxes and Schools 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg promoted his accomplishments yesterday and provided a peek into his agenda for the coming year. His plans include a campaign against gun crimes, a tax rebate for homeowners and an end to the practice of social promotion for third graders in the public schools.
 He spoke at length about overdevelopment on Staten Island and about hopeful signs in the economy. He also made sure to mention each borough at least once, citing its businesses, schools or other attributes. 
 In delivering his annual address on the state of New York City yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg at times appeared to be a man transformed, his jokes funnier, his message urgent, his tongue largely untied. And in that, the nearly hourlong address had the feel of a politician's speech, not a businessman's, with tax cuts and promises for major constituents, and a more studied passion for the city's far-flung corners.
"It was a five-borough speech," said Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., who once accused the mayor of "borough warfare" for policies that he said would have benefited Manhattan alone.
Mr. Bloomberg's biggest promise -- to essentially rebate the proceeds homeowners paid in an 18.5 percent property tax increase passed in 2002 -- had already been leaked with the mayor's consent to much of the press by hisaides on Wednesday night. But he did lay out several other proposals for the coming year. 
On the education front, where Mr. Bloomberg has long hoped to make his biggest impact as mayor, he said yesterday that his administration would put "an end to the discredited practice of social promotion," beginning with the third grade, and that the city planned to increase art and music education in the schools. 
Mr. Bloomberg also said he would continue to try to reduce crime in the city. He said the Police Department would hire a new class of 730 recruits this month and from now on hire two classes every year, rather than one. While the new regimen will not increase the department's overall head count, it will help hold the line against attrition, officials said. And the new class will put a fresh flood of recruits on the street this summer, right before the Republican National Convention.
Throughout, although the mayor's rhetoric could not exactly be described as fiery, it was pointed and sharp, especially when he described the things he will not tolerate, like gun toters, preservers of the status quo in education and those who question the economic viability or safety of the city.
"Let me tell you, no one was going to tell us to stay home on New Year's Eve," Mr. Bloomberg said, making the point that the city is safer than ever, with its lowest crime levels in decades, and vibrant, despite orange security codes and worrying by out-of-state politicians.
Further, Mr. Bloomberg, who always contended that he did not like to spar in public with rivals or to challenge others, ended his remarks with an uncharacteristic promise to "never back away from fighting any opponent, or confronting any obstacle, that would prevent our people from achieving all of their dreams in our New York."
On public safety, the mayor said the police would begin a coordinated campaign against gun violence, zeroing in on offenders with more than one gun-possession arrest and focusing more closely on gun cases in housing projects. 
"We're also going after big-time gun traffickers," he said, adding that the city would demand that Albany close a loophole that he said lets illegal gun dealers dodge stiffer sentences because it treats multiple sales as piecemeal gun deals, rather than as bulk ones.
Mr. Bloomberg also said his administration was actively pursuing his five-year plan to create or restore 65,000 units of housing. Over the next weeks, he said, he will begin a private-public partnership to build housing on cleaned-up brownfields throughout the city.
But the centerpiece of Mr. Bloomberg's speech was his bullish take on the local economy, underscored by a litany of employment and hotel occupancy statistics, among others.
Because of the improving state of the city's finances, Mr. Bloomberg said, he will be able to offer the property tax rebate to homeowners. The same taxpayers he admonished last year to stop whining and to help the city out of a fiscal crisis would now be "recognized for doing so," he said yesterday.
The speech, given at Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, Queens, was attended by about 800 state officials, social policy advocates, business men and women, City Council members and others who were abuzz about Mr. Bloomberg's improved speaking style. Still, some made sure to take swipes at the substance of his remarks. 
"I am glad that the mayor is beginning to take to the Council's approach of conducting the city's business, primarily in recognizing that revenues will exceed expectations," said the Council speaker, Gifford Miller, in a statement. Mr. Miller, who is a likely challenger to Mr. Bloomberg in 2005, also referred to the 2002 property tax increase, which the City Council had approved, as Mr. Bloomberg's.
Mr. Bloomberg's transition into a somewhat more traditional politician has come after a year of bruising attacks from labor unions, poor showings in the polls and a tough fiscal crisis that forced him to choose between deep cuts in city services and tax increases. 
All the while, Mr. Bloomberg's critics have contended that he is not in touch with regular New Yorkers and did little to curry favor with voters. But yesterday's speech was a bit of a curry sandwich: Throgs Neck, the Bronx; Bay Ridge, Brooklyn; and Bayside, Queens, will get the same study on growth management that Staten Island received; 49 acres of parks will be created around Greenpoint and Williamsburg in Brooklyn; a program will aim to improve traffic safety on Queens Boulevard; and all centers for elderly constituents will remain open, a departure for the mayor, who did not view them as such sacred cows in Bloomberg Year 1. 
"You can write it down," he said. "We're going to take care of those who took care of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg greeted public schoolchildren yesterday after giving his annual State of the City address at Silvercup Studios in Queens. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); MUSIC (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004 

 
