

1 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
CALM AFTER THE STORM -- Stocks rose modestly in United States markets, a day after a global sell-off. The Dow Jones industrial average, which tumbled as much 545 points on Tuesday, closed yesterday up 52.39 points, or 0.4 percent. [Page C1.] AND A REBOUND IN SHANGHAI -- The Chinese stock market in Shanghai rebounded, recovering a substantial amount after Tuesday's 9 percent drop. But elsewhere in Asia markets fell in reaction to the sharp drop on Wall Street and to disappointing figures on the American economy. 
[C4.] SLOWER PACE IN LATE '06 -- The Commerce Department reported that economic growth inched ahead by 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter -- a downward revision of 1.3 percentage points. The new rate is substantially below the economy's long-term trend rate of growth. [C6.] A NEW DIRECTION AT S.E.C.?-- Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, is signaling that he is moving toward the view that the administration overreacted to the corporate scandals that began with the collapse of Enron in 2001, some investor advocates and securities law experts say. [C1.] REASSURING WORDS -- Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that he saw little cause for alarm in either stock market plunge or new evidence of slowing economic growth. [C5.] HAVEN'T I SEEN YOU BEFORE? -- Madison Avenue is hiring venerable actors, once known for serious, straight roles, to display cleverly self-mocking sides of their personalities in campaigns aimed at younger as well as older consumers. The spots offer celebrities like William Shatner, above, another day in the limelight. Advertising. [C11.] FEELING THE PRESSURE -- NBC has made plans to replace the executive producer of its ''Nightly News with Brian Williams,'' according to several NBC executives -- a sign that its dominance in the evening news race is undergoing its most serious challenge in a decade. [A1.] ORACLE NEARS A PURCHASE -- Oracle is near a deal to acquire Hyperion Solutions, which makes software that allows corporations to analyze and track their performance, for about $3 billion, according to people briefed on the deal. [C1.] HURRICANE KATRINA CLAIMS -- Mike Moore, a lawyer who engineered a settlement with State Farm, argued in court that the deal should be approved partly because it could put hundreds of millions of dollars into the hands of victims of Hurricane Katrina by the end of the year. [C2.] READY TO DEAL -- Mel Karmazin, the architect of a proposed merger between the nation's two satellite radio companies, XM and Sirius, announced at a hearing in Congress that the companies would agree to government-imposed price controls and other unspecified measures to gain regulatory approval. [C3.] AIRBUS WALKOUT -- Nearly 14,000 blue- and white-collar employees at four Airbus production sites in France stopped work as long as two hours to protest the company's decision to eliminate 10,000 jobs and sell as many as six factories over the next three to four years, union officials said. [C3.]A COOKIE JUGGERNAUT -- With a sales force of 2.7 million, the Girl Scouts have kicked off their 90th season of cookie sales -- but with some modern entrepreneurial twists aimed at encouraging more bulk sales. Small Business. [C7.] A PACT TO FREE KOREAN FUNDS -- China and the United States are close to an accord to let North Korea regain some of the $25 million in its funds frozen in a bank in Macau now that it has agreed to start dismantling its nuclear arms program, American officials said. [A13.] GETTING THE WORD OUT -- Some writers, rejected by book publishers, are attracting audiences by turning their novels into podcasts. And sometimes the podcasts become so popular that they attract publishers who want to publish the book. [E7.] MERCK RAISES FORECASTS -- Citing strong revenue in the current quarter, Merck released a forecast for first-quarter profit well above analysts' expectations, and also increased its forecast for 2007. [C11.] FOUNDER OF HOTEL EMPIRE DIES -- Charles Forte, the owner of a hotel and restaurant empire that ranged from the Waldorf Hotel in London to the budget chain Travelodge, died at his home in London. He was 98. [C14.] ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.MOTOROLA, the cellphone maker, said that the billionaire investor, Carl Icahn, who is already the leading shareholder, had notified the company that he might buy more shares. (AP)LOUIS W. ZEHIL, a former lawyer, was charged by federal prosecutors with earning more than $10 million by obtaining and fraudulently selling securities in companies he represented. Separately, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil complaint against Mr. Zehil in Federal District Court in Manhattan. (REUTERS)THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP of Companies posted slightly lower quarterly revenue but swung to a profit as expenses fell and public relations clients increased spending. Wall Street gave the results a tepid response, suggesting that the company still must persuade investors that it has overcome past client losses, earnings restatements and management changes. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks XM Satellite Radio's share price for last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); STATISTICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); MATURE MARKET (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); CELEBRITIES (69%); LAWYERS (67%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (65%); HURRICANES (64%); SATELLITE RADIO (60%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); SCANDALS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (51%); AIRBUS SAS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); CHRISTOPHER COX (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



2 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Shrug Off Losses As Market Swings Back

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and KEITH BRADSHER; David Barboza reported from Shanghai and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong. Martin Fackler in Tokyo; Wayne Arnold in Singapore; Carlos H. Conde in Manila; Thomas Fuller in Bangkok; Anand Giridharadas in Mumbai, India; and Hilda Wang in Hong Kong contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Seated before a row of computer terminals flickering with stock charts in a large brokerage house in this bustling city, Li Ruichang insisted he was not too worried about Tuesday's huge stock sell-off. 
 ''Things like that happen,'' said Mr. Li, a 63-year-old engineer. ''But I'm not worried about a crash. After a five-year-long bear market, the bull market shouldn't end that fast.''
Mr. Li, a self-professed speculator, said the Chinese stock market was like a giant government-regulated ''slot machine.'' 
 Little did Mr. Li know how this regulated ''slot machine'' of a market, which fell nearly 9 percent Tuesday, set off a global sell-off in stocks. It recovered a substantial amount of those losses on Wednesday. 
 Most international markets traded off sharply Wednesday for a second day, with losses of 2 percent or more on many major Asian exchanges and 1 percent declines common in Europe. But the New York Stock Exchange began advancing from the opening bell at 9:30 a.m.; the Dow Jones industrial index closed 0.43 percent higher at 12,268.63.
 China indirectly reassured its markets Wednesday, with its state-controlled media reporting that the government might allow greater foreign investment in Chinese stocks -- up to 10 percent of the market -- and would not impose capital gains taxes on stocks soon. 
 But while China's markets rebounded, markets around Asia fell in reaction to the sharp drop on Wall Street and to disappointing figures on the American economy. 
 Investors here say there is no clear explanation for the plunge in the benchmark Shanghai composite index, which fell 8.8 percent on Tuesday, or for that matter Wednesday's partial recovery. The index gained 3.9 percent to end at 2,881.07, about 100 points above where it was at the start of February. It is still up about 120 percent from a year ago. 
 ''Yesterday was very normal,'' said Wu Xiaowei, a 50-year-old who calls himself a professional investor. ''It's a rule that in a bullish market the stock index always falls fast in an adjustment period.''
 [On Thurday, markets in Shanghai opened lower on concerns that stocks were too costly. In Tokyo, the Nikkei dropped more than 1.5 pecent as investors continued to be worried about the United States economy.]
 Some investors blamed rumors about new government taxes for Tuesday's steep market decline; others called it profit taking; and still others said many investors had celebrated too much on the first day of trading after the Chinese New Year by bidding shares up to record highs on Monday. 
 The managing director general of the Asian Development Bank, Rajat M. Nag, said in an interview in Hong Kong on Wednesday morning that the fundamentals of most Asian economies remained strong.
 But he cautioned that the region remained dependent on exports to markets, especially the United States, where growth prospects were cloudy. China is among the most dependent of all, he said, with international trade in goods equal to 65 percent of its economic output last year. 
 ''We are still fairly bullish on the Chinese economy's growth potential,'' Mr. Nag said, but its dependence on exports ''is a vulnerability.''
 One reason is that China has managed its currency, the yuan, limiting its rise against the dollar to keep exports strong. In doing so, Chinese officials may have indirectly helped create what some experts say are speculative bubbles in China's stock and real estate markets. 
 The government has bought dollars from exporters and foreign investors on a huge scale, issuing hundreds of billions of yuan notes to pay for them -- currency that otherwise might not have entered circulation. 
 The government has tried to contain the potential inflationary effect of issuing so much currency by having banks and individuals buy government bonds, then effectively tearing up the yuan notes. Since not all the yuan can be clawed back this way, many of them end up in the stock and property markets instead, driving up prices. 
 This excess of cash helps feed a bullish attitude toward the economy held by many Chinese individual investors, who still keep much of their money in bank accounts and saw Wednesday as a buying opportunity. 
 ''I lost some money yesterday, but this morning I gained some,'' said Qin Changhai, a 37-year-old shoe salesman turned day trader. ''You see, this is what we go through every day.''
 Other Asian markets initially turned their backs on the recovery in China's markets. Instead, Asian investors reacted to potential weaknesses in the American economy. Shares of Asian companies that export to the United States, like Toyota, suffered heavy losses Wednesday after the Commerce Department's report that orders for durable goods fell 7.8 percent in January.
 ''There is a worry that U.S. consumption could slow substantially, and that is a much bigger factor than China's stock market,'' the chief Asia economist in the Hong Kong offices of Credit Suisse, Tao Dong, said.
 On top of concerns about a slump in American demand, analysts said the prospect of cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve to head off such a slump was also worrisome. Many investors in Japan appeared to be watching for signs of whether the sell-off would continue in New York.
 ''What comes next here really depends on New York, not Shanghai,'' said Eiji Kinouchi, chief technical analyst at the research arm of Daiwa Securities in Tokyo.
 The worst performer in Asia on Wednesday was the Philippine market, which fell nearly 8 percent. The broad extent of the decline in Asia underlined the region's deepening connection to global financial markets and growing reliance on exports to the industrialized world.
 ''Every morning, most traders will get a fix on how the Asian markets are trading and how did the Nasdaq close -- I think people have gotten more globalized,'' said Sandeep Nanda, head of research at Sharekhan, a large retail brokerage firm in India.
 Tim Condon, the head of financial markets research at ING Financial Markets in Singapore, said that the most significant feature of the worldwide drop was that it was the first such global shock to financial markets to emerge from mainland China.
 In Japan, one of the biggest fears for investors is the possibility of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, which could start narrowing the gap with Japan's rock-bottom rates. Japanese overnight lending rates are 0.5 percent, compared with 5.25 percent in the United States.
 If the gap shrinks, it could slow or halt the so-called yen carry trade, in which investors borrow hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of yen to invest in stock markets around the world in search of higher returns.
 If this flow of money stops, or reverses, it could prompt larger sell-offs on Wall Street and drive the yen even higher, hurting Japanese exporters even more, analysts said.
 ''Bernanke holds the trigger,'' said Kiichi Fujita, a strategist in Tokyo for Nomura Securities, referring to the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. ''If he cuts interest rates in America, the worry is that the yen carry trade will unwind.''
 Back in China, though, state-controlled newspapers put on a positive spin Wednesday, reporting that more than 188,000 stock market accounts were opened. In the English-language Shanghai Daily, news of the stock slide was placed, perhaps somewhat deliberately, on Page 2. 
 After shares collapsed in 1996, the government put in circuit breakers that restricted the market from falling more than 10 percent in a single session. Worried about a stock market bubble, government officials recently warned investors about ''blind optimism'' in the stock market. 
 ''The government doesn't want to see this go up or down too quickly,'' said Frank M. Song, director of the Center for China Financial Research at the University of Hong Kong. ''Their goal is to try to maintain stable growth.''
 Stability seemed to rule again Wednesday at the Liaoning Securities brokerage house, where retirees lounged around, their feet up on the tables, watching the market go up.
 Ji Manli, watching a computer screen, said she had done ''pretty well.'' Her return was 300 percent.
 ''But I still think I didn't do well enough,'' said Ms. Ji, 67, a retired electrical engineer. ''When some stocks hit their highs, I sold them. Other people did much better.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An investor followed stocks yesterday at the market yesterday in Shanghai. The Shanghai stock index rose 3.9 percent after a steep drop Tuesday. (Photo by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times)Graph: ''Still Well Ahead''The Shanghai stock exchange tumbled on Tuesday, but it is still up 148 percent from the end of 2005.Graph tracks Shanghai composite stock index, daily closes since Jan. 2006. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (88%); BONDS (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Capital Gains Tax; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (60%)

PERSON: David Barboza; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) EAST CHINA (94%) CHINA (96%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



3 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Economic Growth Pace Revised Lower

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Analysts have been stumped by the apparent resilience of the American economy, which seemed to be bounding ahead at a 3.5 percent pace in the final quarter of last year even as the housing market fell and the Federal Reserve raised interest rates. 
 The paradox has been solved: the economy was not bounding. The Commerce Department reported yesterday that economic growth inched ahead by 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, only slightly faster than the 2 percent growth recorded in the third quarter and substantially below the economy's long-term trend rate of growth 
The downward revision, by 1.3 percentage points, in the preliminary estimate of gross domestic product was almost three times the average adjustment since the early 1980s, which is 0.5 percentage point. 
 Coupled with a 17 percent decline in new-home sales in January and a 7.8 percent drop last month in orders of durable goods like computers and washing machines, the new data indicated the economy was much weaker than it seemed. 
 ''I think we are going to discover that the economy is softer than the Fed thinks,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG Hoenig. 
 In Congressional testimony, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, offered a sanguine view. He said the revised numbers were ''more consistent with our view of the economy'' than the prior estimates. He said the Fed expected ''moderate growth'' going forward, which could pick up by midyear if housing managed to break its fall. 
 But concerns over the prospects of a slowing economy were heightened by the steep declines in equity markets around the globe on Tuesday, which came after a near 9 percent drop in the Shanghai market. Investors were also given the jitters by comments made to a business conference in Hong Kong on Monday by the former Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan. Mr. Greenspan warned that the American economy could be in recession by the end of the year.
 Not many economists agree that a recession is in sight. Still, the slowing economy, economists say, should eventually take its toll on jobs. ''It virtually guarantees labor market deterioration in the form of a higher unemployment rate,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs.
 While the statement of the Fed's interest-rate-setting committee in January expressed more concern about inflation than about growth, warning ''inflation risks remain,'' economists say evidence of slower growth is likely to refocus the Fed's attention. ''They are going to discover in the next 90 days that they are leaning the wrong way,'' Mr. Barbera added.
 Not all of the economic news was bad. Inflation appeared tamer in the revised G.D.P. report than earlier estimates indicated. The price index for consumer goods excluding food and energy, the inflation gauge most favored by the Fed, rose at an annual rate of only 1.9 percent in the last three months of 2006, less than the 2.1 percent originally reported.
 Moreover, about half of the revision to gross domestic product was because of lower inventory accumulation than the government had previously estimated. This means that companies have lower stocks of unsold goods in their warehouses, which would force them to increase production quicker to respond to consumer demand. 
 Also, the consumer confidence index of the Conference Board reached a five-year high in January.
 But there are more signs of economic weakness. Trade, which had been thought to add 1.64 percentage points to growth in the quarter, added only 1.5 percentage points, according to the revised data. 
 The growth in consumer spending in the fourth quarter of last year was brought down a notch in the revised report, to 4.2 percent from 4.4 percent. And much of this growth was merely because of a fall in prices. In nominal dollars, consumer spending slowed markedly.
 Housing, it seems, still has a way to fall. The Commerce Department reported that builders faced a growing glut of unsold homes in January as the pace of new-home sales slowed 16.6 percent -- the most in 13 years.
 The seasonally adjusted annual sales rate fell to 937,000 last month from 1.1 million in December. Compared with a year earlier, January's rate was down 20.1 percent. Since the housing market hit its peak in the summer of 2005, new-home sales have fallen by nearly a third.
 But perhaps the more troubling adjustment in the G.D.P. report was to investment by businesses. Capital investment growth had been one of the sunnier components of economic activity in the second half of last year, picking up some slack from the collapse in residential construction -- which declined 19 percent in the final quarter of last year.
 Yet according to the revised figures, nonresidential investment in things like factories and computers declined by 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter, much more than the original estimate of a 0.4 percent decline. 
 ''Corporations have become a little more risk averse,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. The economic outlook could deteriorate further if Tuesday's financial turbulence intensifies. Yesterday, American equity markets recovered some of their Tuesday loss. But many markets in Asia and Europe fell for a second consecutive day. And there are weak points in the American financial system -- mortgage-backed bonds, for instance.
 Yet, barring a financial disaster, many economists say they believe that a recession will be averted. This is contingent on proper action by the Fed. ''There is substantial downward pressure on growth,'' Mr. Hatzius said. ''But with little to worry about inflation pressures, there is no reason that monetary policy couldn't provide enough support to stabilize things.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Jan. -- -16.9%Dec. -- + 9.1Nov. -- + 6.4(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); TRENDS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); TESTIMONY (66%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Housing ; Sales; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); United States Economy

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



4 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Thursday Styles; Skin Deep; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Is Looking Your Age Now Taboo?

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
BACK when she was in her early 40s and her skin was still smooth and unlined, Susan Burke used to joke that she was going to have a face-lift the minute she turned 45. The deadline came and went.
 But now that Ms. Burke has turned 50, she is feeling pressure to do something about the changes she sees in the mirror. Wrinkles have started to appear. Grocery store clerks have started calling her ''ma'am.'' And many of her friends have already made the leap to the range of procedures promoted to make them look younger than their years. ''The eyelift, that's very popular,'' said Ms. Burke, a registered nurse from Point Pleasant, N.J. ''The Botox, everybody is getting it. And the fillers.''
Her concerns are the wrinkles between her eyebrows and the creases that run from the corners of her nose to her mouth, she said. ''It would make me happy to be able to turn those things back a little bit.'' 
 She is not alone. Though the number of Americans who regularly have cosmetic facial injections is estimated to be only about one million, the mere availability of the procedures has heightened the pressure on women over 30 to consider a level of intervention that until recently was embraced only by the famous or the rich.
 ''Women have always been under pressure to look good, but that has increased recently because we have become so used to seeing perfect, unwrinkled faces,'' Ms. Burke said. ''Now when you see someone who looks like a raisin or a prune, it seems so unusual that you are almost repulsed.''
 Are wrinkles to become a thing of the past for the self-selected few, like crooked teeth after the advent of modern orthodontics? At the very least, wrinkles are being repositioned as the new gray hair -- another means to judge attractiveness, romantic viability, professional competitiveness and social status.
 In interviews, many women, some as young as their early 30s, said they are feeling caught between nature and an anti-aging climate. Many are involved in an internal debate -- a negotiation, of sorts -- about how much they are willing to intervene.
 ''It makes people ask themselves whether age is a matter to be treated like white teeth or a manicure,'' said Nancy Etcoff, a clinical instructor in psychology at Harvard Medical School who has studied human perceptions of attractiveness. ''For some people, the pressure to keep back a few years of time has turned upkeep into a third career, after work and family.''
 As recently as a decade ago, the obliteration of wrinkles required full face-lifts or deep laser resurfacing. To partake of these expensive treatments required disposable income and recovery time; patients retreated with their wounds, to reemerge weeks later with smoother skin or a tighter jaw.
 But now newer, less invasive treatments -- including Botox injections to temporarily paralyze muscles beneath frown lines, Restylane injections to fill out facial creases and updated lasers to eliminate surface layers of skin -- are easily available and relatively safe, albeit still too expensive for most people of middle-class means. 
 These cosmetic technologies are also changing the way pop culture perceives the aging face. Once a biological fact of life like kneecaps or navels, wrinkles now appear to be optional for those who can afford to smooth them.
 By now the disdain for them is ingrained in the culture. This month even the magazine of the AARP, a group dedicated to fighting ageism, published a cover line exhorting readers to ''Look Younger Now: Erase Ten Years (Or More)'' -- effectively canonizing the notion that a face that telegraphs its age is out of date.
 One reason for the pressure is increasing life spans. As Americans live longer, middle age has shifted to 60 from 40, with 40 recast as a youthful stage. That leaves some women grappling with the idea of what 60 looks like.
 Nora Ephron taps that nerve in her book, ''I Feel Bad About My Neck,'' a chronicle of her efforts to keep age at bay. In a phone interview, Ms. Ephron described aging as an endless negotiation with the mirror. 
 ''There is so much that we do now that you can barely keep track,'' said Ms. Ephron, 65, who has sold 750,000 hardcover copies of her book. ''Just redoing your teeth can keep you going for six months with the delusion that you have managed to stop time -- or liposuction or Restylane, or whatever you are using for filler.''
 Some women have decided that less is more. And the numbers seem to bear that out. While about $12.4 billion was spent on cosmetic medical treatments in America in 2005, about $49 billion was spent on cosmetics and toiletries.
 For Cathy MacFarlane, 52, of Wilmington, Del., the line was drawn at her hair. Color, no. Fashionable cut for her silver mane, yes.
 ''People are trying to look airbrushed in daily life, and that is not healthy,'' said Ms. MacFarlane, who directs corporate relations for a bank.
 Corlethia Denise Johnson, 50, a legal secretary from Laurel, Md., colors her hair burgundy but looks askance at injections. ''All of these things like the Botox, I hear about them, but I feel when you start, you have to continue,'' she said. ''It's best not to start.''
 Some -- and this number, plastic surgery statistics show, includes men -- see appearance as a matter of economics.
 ''If you want to sell a million-dollar house, you have to look good,'' said Tracey McCallum, a real estate broker in Bowie, Md., who is only 33 but has already had Botox injections, as well as chemical peels and laser treatments. ''You have to look good, and you have to have confidence that you look good.''
 Ms. McCallum, who was interviewed during her visit to the Washington Institute of Dermatologic Laser Surgery, said she had not until recently given any thought to cosmetic treatments. ''But as we age,'' she said, ''we kind of see things in a different light.''
 Donna Emnett, a junior high school teacher in St. Louis, said age brings a heightened perception of flaws. Now 56, she is starting to notice looser facial skin and a double chin, she said. After her book club read ''I Feel Bad About My Neck,'' the members discussed tummy tucks, eyelifts and injections.
 ''We are from the Midwest, so we are kind of fearful of needles because we don't want to walk around with weird puffy lips or stiff foreheads,'' Ms. Emnett said. ''But we decided that an eyelift might be O.K.''
 Other women have gone from negotiation to embrace. Kim Pace, 49, an interior decorator in Odenton, Md., began having laser procedures a few years ago to treat acne scars and sun-damaged skin. Then she added Botox for her wrinkles, along with Restylane and Juvederm injections for her lips, she said.
 ''My lips used to give away my age,'' she said, ''but now they don't any more.''
 She said she is merely heeding society's cues. ''I don't think we are getting more vain,'' she said, ''I think we have changed our view about how women should look.''
 Statistics bear this out. While face-lifts were down to about 150,000 procedures in 2005 from about 157,000 in 2004, cosmetic Botox treatments increased to about 3.3 million from about 2.8 million. In actuality, that means only about one million Americans regularly undergo facial injections, said Jonah Shacknai, the chief executive of Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation, which distributes Restylane. 
 But enough people seem to know someone -- or several people -- who have undergone cosmetic treatment that they find themselves considering it, too.
 ''We joke among my friends, 'let's all go have surgery together,' '' said Terry Thielen, 58, who works for the municipality of Upper Brookville, N.Y., ''because you hear about people having surgery and you think, well, maybe I should do it, too.''
 Ms. Thielen said she does not plan to have anything done. But she does feel mixed emotions about aging, thanks to what she described as a bombardment of media images of younger models and stores that stock clothing designed to fit younger people.
 ''It makes you look in the mirror, pull your skin up and wonder what it would be like to have your 20-year-old face back,'' Ms. Thielen said. ''I wish our society would make us feel better about getting older instead of glamorizing youth, which is a very short period of life.''
 There are some signs of a countermovement. 
 Dove, for example, has just introduced a line called Pro-Age aimed at women ''in their later years.'' The products promise to nourish, replenish or renew aging skin and hair. Instead of models, the ad campaign uses real women in their 50s and 60s who happily expose every wrinkle, crease and freckle.
 ''We are not saying turn back the hands of time, or stop aging, or look 10 years younger,'' said Kathy O'Brien, the marketing director at Dove. ''We are saying embrace the age that you are and make the best of it.''
 That is very similar to the message that Bobbi Brown, the makeup artist, sends in her new book, ''Living Beauty.'' Ms. Brown, who has her own cosmetics line, admits to feeling concern over her own appearance as she turns 50. But she said drastic changes are for ''women on TV.'' She herself has had less invasive treatments like Botox injections (twice), laser procedures to remove brown spots and tooth whitening.
 ''My advice to real women is, you are not on TV or on the red carpet, so let go of some of the pressure,'' Ms. Brown said. 
 She is not suggesting, however, that women do nothing. Rather, they can choose to use concealers, moisturizers, hair color or tooth whitening, she said.
 ''I want women to know that they have a choice about aging,'' Ms. Brown said. ''There is the Hollywood way, or my way. I am not saying look younger. I am saying look good for your age.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: BOTOX -- $376 to $850
FACE-LIFT -- $5,000 to $15,000 or more
LASER HAIR REMOVAL -- $347 and up per treatment
EYELIFT -- $2,500 and up
WRINKLE CREAM -- $15.99 to $1,000
RESTYLANE FOR CREASES -- $542 to $1,000 a syringe
COLLAGEN FOR LIP PLUMPING -- $400 to $850 a syringe
HAIR COLOR -- $8.99 to $400
FRAXEL LASER RESURFACING -- $1,000 or more per treatment
BREAST AUGMENTATION -- $3,000 to $8,000
PROFESSIONAL TOOTH WHITENING -- $600 to $1,000
LIPOSUCTION OF THE JAW LINE -- $2,000 and up (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. G1)
ONLY THE BOLDFACE -- Bobbi Brown, the makeup artist and author, advises women to leave drastic cosmetic changes to celebrities. (Photo by William Mebane for The New York Times)
UNSWAYED -- Terry Thielen, 58, above, says she has no plans to interfere with nature. (Photo by Mark Paris for The New York Times)
UNSOLD -- Cathy MacFarlane, 52, left, is proudly silver. Corlethia Denise Johnson, 50, above, colors her hair but believes ''It's best not to start'' treatments like Botox. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)(pg. G3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (89%); WOMEN (75%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TOOTH DISORDERS (67%); MEDICAL LASERS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%) Skin; Age, Chronological; Women

PERSON: Natasha Singer

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (59%) UNITED STATES (70%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



5 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Amid Claims of Police Profiling, Study Will Review 'Stop and Frisks'

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
The New York City Police Department has commissioned a six-month independent review of the way it stops people on the streets, sometimes searching them for illegal weapons, after the release of statistics that showed the department stopped 508,540 people in the five boroughs last year, officials said yesterday.
 The study will focus on the role that race plays in everyday street stops: some critics have suggested that minorities, particularly black people, were unfairly singled out, a claim the police deny. It will be done by the RAND Corporation, a private nonprofit organization that has studied the issue in other cities, including Oakland, Calif., and Cincinnati, officials said. 
Nearly two months ago, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly commissioned RAND to review several aspects of firearm use in the department after the fatal police shooting of Sean Bell in Queens in November. That study is still under way.
 The issue of stopping people on the streets -- known in department parlance as ''stop and frisks'' -- has been a source of occasional tension between the police and residents. As part of the study, analysts from RAND will not only examine last year's 508,540 stops, but also ride with police officers on duty. The officers will be interviewed about their decisions to make stops. 
 Analysts will also see firsthand how officers complete forms known as UF-250s, which they are supposed to fill out after all such stops. The form captures several points of data, including the circumstances that led to the stop, whether physical force was used, whether the stop included a frisk, and the race or ethnicity of the person stopped. A factor cited frequently on the forms is ''area has high crime incidence.''
 The analysts will also review an electronic database of all the stops made by officers last year and ''take steps to audit the data collection process,'' said Greg Ridgeway, the associate director of RAND's Safety and Justice Program, who will lead the research in New York.
 Police officials released statistics on Feb. 2 showing that the number of people stopped last year increased to 508,540 from 97,296 in 2002, the last time the department divulged the data from a single calendar year.
 The officials have said that the steep increase is partly due to greater adherence to departmental rules for filling out the stop-and-frisk forms and more aggressive crime-fighting activities, particularly in high-crime neighborhoods. They have repeatedly said that officers do not practice racial profiling.
 In a statement announcing the RAND study yesterday, Mr. Kelly said that while the department's own analysis of its data ''in general terms showed that stops were consistent with concentrations of crime and of victim descriptions of suspects,'' the RAND analysts would work ''to determine whether there are any flaws that we may need to address.''
 Responding to complaints of profiling, the department noted that while 55.2 percent of those stopped were black, 68.5 percent of reported crimes involved suspects described as black.
 Mr. Kelly added, ''We thought it was important to have a separate, independent review, and we turned to RAND again because of its reputation for objectivity and quality research.''
 The study will cost $120,000 and will be paid for by New York City Police Foundation, a charity that supports the Police Department.
 Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said that the department's raw data -- not just its own summary of its data -- should be disclosed publicly and to an array of interested parties, not just to its ''chosen consultants'' at RAND.
 ''The situation cries out for an independent review,'' she said.
 Critics have said that the summary the department released in early February raises as many questions as it answers and, in isolation, is hard to understand. 
 For instance, according to the department's data, the average number of people arrested per quarter as a result of street stops doubled to 5,317 last year, from 2,819 in 2002. But Ms. Lieberman pointed out that the story behind the numbers was that in 2002, one person was arrested for every 8.5 stops, while last year, one person was arrested for every 25 stops.
 Thomas A. Reppetto, a police historian, said he was eager to hear what RAND finds.
 ''I want the constitutional question answered,'' Mr. Reppetto said. ''Are these stops, frisks and searches reasonable? That is what the U.S. Constitution demands, that searches not be unreasonable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); RACIAL PROFILING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%); SHOOTINGS (74%); STATISTICS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (61%) Police; Search and Seizure; Discrimination

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%) Rand Corp; American Civil Liberties Union

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



6 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Plans A Crackdown On Laborers There Illegally

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Warning that the proliferation of illegal immigrants is threatening the basic harmony and quality of life in the suburbs of Long Island, the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, outlined a list of initiatives on Wednesday to limit the influx, including a crackdown on day laborers and contractors and the assignment of federal immigration officials to the county jail.
 Flanked by other politicians and law enforcement officials, Mr. Levy charged that illegal immigrants were hurting the county's economy by driving down wages ''that would otherwise be paid to legal residents, immigrants or not.'' 
Illegal immigrants, he said, are driving up costs for schools, hospitals, jails, courts and the police, and Suffolk taxpayers are ''unnecessarily footing the bill.''
 News of the initiatives brought an immediate outcry from immigrant advocacy groups and Hispanic leaders, who have said that Mr. Levy's stance smacks of bigotry.
 With the illegal immigration issue increasingly playing out in suburban settings, Mr. Levy, a co-founder of a national coalition called Mayors and Executives for Immigration Reform, has attracted a national spotlight because of his hard-line stance on the subject. He insists that the federal government has failed to address the problems of illegal immigration or to stem the flow of undocumented immigrants, and that local governments must take up the slack.
 Mr. Levy said that after two years of discussion, he had persuaded federal immigration officials to assign four enforcement officers to work full time in the county jail system to deal with inmates who are in the United States illegally.
 He said that anti-loitering legislation to prohibit traffic obstruction would help clear day laborers off the roadsides and street corners.
 In addition, he said there would be a seminar on March 14 at which county officials would explain to business owners a county law enacted in October that requires companies contracting with Suffolk County to verify that their employees are in the country legally, a move that he said would affect more than 6,000 companies and agencies.
 He said the policy of having county police officers look into the legal residency of anyone arrested and having them check the names against a federal database of illegal immigrants resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of illegal immigrants turned over for deportation.
 The aim of all these measures, he said, is to protect residents who ''do not want to see their neighborhood turned upside down.''
 He estimated that of the 1.5 million people living in the county, 40,000 were illegal immigrants.
 Saying that federal immigration policy failed to address illegal immigration, he added, ''We're trying to chip away at the problem'' by creating local legislation.
 ''There's frustration on the local level regarding our nation's broken borders,'' Mr. Levy said, calling the county initiatives an attempt to ''blaze the trail'' against widespread immigration problems.
 Jack Eddington, a Democratic county legislator and a co-sponsor of the anti-loitering legislation, told reporters that the problems of rising taxes and illegal immigration were ''two sides of the same coin,'' and warned illegal immigrants, ''You better beware.''
 ''If you're here in Suffolk County illegally, you will not stay here,'' Mr. Eddington said. ''If you are on the street looking for work and causing unsafe conditions, you will not stay. Suffolk County residents will not be victimized anymore.''
 Another co-sponsor, Joseph T. Caracappa, Republican of Selden, said that taxpayers had ''had enough'' and that people had begun to move out of the county.
 ''Go down your block and see all the For Sale signs,'' he said.
 Mr. Levy said that in 2004, the police informed federal authorities about 44 people who seemed to lack legal residency. In 2005, the number increased to 1,063. In 2006, it rose to 2,287.
 Sheriff Vincent DeMarco outlined the county's new Criminal Alien Program, which would give federal immigration officials ''access to our jail management system.''
 He said that roughly 10 percent of the 1,764 inmates in the county jail system seemed to be in the country illegally. Most of them are supposed to be turned over to federal authorities, he said, but in the meantime must be kept in county jails, costing the county $200 a day for each one.
 ''We want them out of county jails and into federal prisons ASAP,'' he said.
 The sheriff said that when people were arrested who could not show any legal residency status, ''the majority of them admit how they got in, believe it or not.'' 
 Currently, federal immigration authorities must visit the jail to interview and pick up immigrants, but often the lag in waiting times allows some inmates to be bailed out or ''slip through the cracks,'' Mr. Levy said. Having officials assigned to the jail would make the process more efficient, he said.
 Mr. Levy has been accused by Latino leaders and immigrant advocates of failing to reach out to Spanish-speaking communities and of fostering racism against Latinos. They say that such attitudes led to the 2000 case in which two white men lured two Mexican day laborers to an abandoned warehouse with a promise of work and then beat them.
 The Latino leaders called the anti-loitering law an attempt to criminalize ''standing while Latino.''
 ''He's attacking a community for political gain,'' said Nadia Marin-Molina, executive director of the Workplace Project, a Latino advocacy group with offices in Hempstead and Farmingville. ''He's making sure the public remembers that he is anti-immigrant. He's playing to anti-immigrant sentiment for political gain, just to get additional votes. Suffolk County has low wages and a high cost of living, and he's telling them to blame the immigrants.''
 ''We've tried to meet with him, but he's refused,'' Ms. Marin-Molina said. ''He won't work with us and won't do anything to address the real issues. He'll only attack us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PRISONS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); DEPORTATION (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Hispanic-Americans; Labor; Day Laborers; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: Mayors and Executives for Immigration Reform (Orgn)

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon; Steve Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



7 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: New Options (and Risks) in Home Care for Elderly

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

 BODY:
Dr. Diane E. Meier, a geriatrician at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, is an expert on end-of-life care. So when her elderly parents needed long-term help at home with bathing, dressing and cooking after her father's stroke, she knew where to find assistance.
 It was not through agencies in Manhattan that provide home health aides who are bonded, insured and certified. A year of custodial care from such an agency would cost her family $150,000, and in short order exhaust its savings because aides are not covered by government assistance unless patients are poor or fresh from a hospital stay.
Instead Dr. Meier turned to ''a little list'' of aides from the so-called gray market, an over-the-back-fence network of women. They are usually untrained, unscreened and unsupervised, but more affordable without an agency's fee, less constrained by regulations and hired through personal recommendation. 
 With 4.2 million Americans currently over 85 -- a number expected to grow to 5.9 million by 2014 and then accelerate with the baby boom generation -- the exploding need for long-term care is remaking the home-care industry, driving more of it underground. Gray-market hiring, fraught with risks, is a solution that middle-class families are turning to as they face the crushing burden of indefinite home-care expenses. But it is hardly the only one, as businesses rush to meet the needs of these families, the fastest-growing segment of the marketplace, who are intent on keeping their loved ones out of nursing homes. 
 Traditional agencies like the Visiting Nurse Service, founded to serve the poor with all manner of home health care, are opening divisions geared toward clients who must pay their own way. At VNS, 15 percent of clients now pay out of pocket, an 11 percent increase over last year, and aides trained in wound care and vital signs are also learning to interact with doormen, use espresso machines or escort a client to the opera.
 At the same time, upscale agencies providing trained aides are proliferating solely for the private-pay market, as are national chains with more modest services -- and more reasonable prices. These franchises are intended for today's consumer of home health care who need simple companionship, reminders to take medication, an escort to doctors' appointments and help preparing meals.
 The largest of these chains, Home Instead, opened in 1994 with six franchises and now has 722. Their 37,000 part-time workers tend to the needs of 43,000 elderly clients. The advantage is a lower hourly fee -- say, $15 an hour for nonmedical needs vs. $20 an hour for a trained agency aide -- and the disadvantage a scramble to find more skilled help as a patient's health declines. 
 Policy experts worry that the new home health care businesses could put profit above quality.
 ''Consumers are always in jeopardy when there's an opportunity to make a lot of money,'' said Val J. Halamandaris, president of the National Association of Home Care, who 40 years ago was chief counsel to the Senate Committee on Aging. ''Sometimes it works out beautifully, and sometimes it doesn't. But nobody's policing it; that's for sure.'' 
 Gray-market hiring, which Dr. Meier says most of her patients choose, is largely a financial decision to avoid the fees of home-care agencies, where perhaps $9 of the $20 hourly fee goes to the aide. In a gray-market arrangement, the aide might get $12, a 33 percent increase -- although sometimes without benefits, worker's compensation or Social Security -- leaving a family able to afford additional hours. 
 Many who have hired by word-of-mouth, without criminal background checks, and paid directly cite the loyalty of employees and their ability to work unfettered by regulations. Some agencies, for example, prohibit their aides from lifting a patient who has fallen without calling 911 or getting approval from a supervisor. That rule protects a client from being moved improperly, the aide from injury and an agency from liability. But some families shudder at the prospect of a loved one lying on the floor.
 Many families worry more about temperament than tasks. Dr. Meier, and most of her patients say that entrusting someone with intimate care is less a reasoned decision than an intuition about character.
 ''You can teach someone how to turn a bed-bound person,'' Dr. Meier said, ''but you can't teach the milk of human kindness.'' 
 Others say they chose gray-market employees if family members insisted upon someone of the same race. That is why Michael Elsas, president of Cooperative Home Care Associates in the Bronx, a worker-owned agency, turned to what he called ''the German au pair network,'' rather than his own better-trained aides, for his mother. But as her Parkinson's disease progressed, Mr. Elsas said, the au pairs were not up to the task. He hired two aides from his agency, keeping one of the German women to placate his mother. 
 ''The cost quadrupled,'' Mr. Elsas said, to $1,400 a week, from $350.
 Referrals from corporate employee-assistance plans and also coverage under long-term care insurance are fueling the growth of the full-service agencies. Senior Bridge, for example, has expanded from New York City to 18 suburban and Sun Belt locations. And House Works in Boston, a boutique agency with fewer than 700 clients, has seen its gross revenue grow in six years to $9 million, from $590,000. 
 According to the American Association of Long-Term Care Insurance, a trade group for agents, more than one-third of the $63.3 billion in benefits paid in 2006 went toward home care. But policies differ in whether they cover only certified aides or a broader menu including gray-market employees or companions. And state insurance officials worry about the pressure to deny benefits as more policyholders, now in their 50s and 60s, begin to make claims. 
 The demand for home care aides throughout the industry is expected to outstrip supply. The Bureau of Labor Statistics counted 663,280 such aides in 2005, up from 577,530 in 1999, a tally that does not include gray-market workers. But the Census Bureau reports a stagnant number of women with little education, ages 25 to 54, the traditional labor pool for this occupation, just as the 85-and-over population is soaring.
 Innovators in the field are looking for ways to reduce turnover, estimated at 40 percent to 100 percent a year by various agencies. This so-called churn results in an inexperienced and uncommitted work force.
 The Service Employees International Union has been at the cutting edge of creating a more stable pool of workers. In New York, Local 1199 unionized 60,000 home-care employees. Unionized aides, many of them former welfare recipients, get a full array of benefits, rare in this industry, and opportunities to master English, study nursing or learn computer skills.
 One of the union's newest offerings is a sort of consciousness-raising group, focusing on self-esteem and a sense of community among otherwise isolated workers. Last month, 13 aides from an agency in Queens shared their gripes with a facilitator. Many had been summoned from clients' homes just moments before the workshop. This sort of administrative confusion was typical, they said, and along with wages, which average $9.34 an hour nationwide, is their main complaint. But aides also said clients criticized their broken English, refused to eat their ethnic food, touched them inappropriately or assumed they would steal.
 The Visiting Nurse Service is raising its pay scale to $10 an hour by 2008. Compensation will be tied to seniority, which VNS hopes will reduce turnover, and to the completion of specialty training in areas like Alzheimer's disease, which will provide career ladders for aides. 
 By all accounts, there is only one training program in the country for gray-market aides, at the Schmieding Center for Senior Health and Education at the University of Arkansas. There, Dr. Larry Wright, a geriatrician, designed a 119-hour curriculum for independent contractors, most enrolled by private employers. The course costs only $275, thanks to the subsidy of a benefactor.
 Dr. Wright makes a case for buttressing the independent work force.
 ''If I saw agencies doing fantastic work, it would be one thing,'' said Dr. Wright, who says most agencies do little more than criminal background checks. ''But there's not much value added and significant cost.''
 Even the best-trained agency aides wind up improvising in the privacy of a client's home. It may be against the rules to escort patients in a private vehicle or use their credit cards when shopping. But Mr. Elsas, of Cooperative Home Care Associates, has no doubt it happens.
 ''The system depends on the good judgment and integrity of workers who may be making $7 an hour,'' he said. ''What's wrong with that picture?''
 One effort to instill good judgment is a peer-mentoring program at Mr. Elsas's agency where senior aides make in-home visits to newcomers. But a home setting precludes the oversight found in nursing homes, tightened after the scandals of the 1970s. Setting national standards for agency employees, independent contractors and even family caretakers is one goal of a conference in March at the International Longevity Center in New York. 
 Sheila Baker, a geriatric social worker who has hired gray-market help for her mother, prefers informal oversight. At Mount Sinai's geriatric clinic, for example, aides escorting patients to medical appointments are always asked to leave the room long enough for the elderly person to speak freely about the arrangement. And at Ms. Baker's mother's apartment, even with a gray-market aide who was once a physician in the Philippines, Ms. Baker and her sister, a nurse, make unannounced visits. 
 Larry Minnix, head of the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, advocates national standards to prevent a repeat of the nursing home scandals in the home-care arena. And he speaks from personal experience. 
 Before they died, Mr. Minnix's in-laws were cared for at home by one beloved aide hired from the gray market. That aide, in turn, hired friends for additional help. One, who did yard work, had a criminal record. Another, with a family of nine, ran up exorbitant grocery bills because she was taking most of the food home. But his in-laws, Mr. Minnix said, were dependent on the original aide and fearful of changing the arrangement.
 ''This could happen to anyone,'' he said. ''And it's something the country doesn't know what to do about yet.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about home health care aides misstated the amount of long-term care insurance benefits paid in 2006 and misstated the name of the organization that provided the figure. The benefits totaled $3.3 billion, not $63.3 billion. The organization was the Association for -- not of -- Long-Term Care Insurance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andria Sharper, above right, a senior home health aide for Cooperative Home Care Associates in the Bronx, mentoring a newer aide, Cliffinia Gordon at the home of a client. Carolyn Luttrell, below right, a companion employed by a Home Instead franchise agency, with a client in Mesquite, Tex. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
(Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)
 Dr. Diane E. Meier used the gray market to help her aging parents. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. A17)Graph: ''More Aides Making Less Money''Since 1999, the number of home health aides in the United States has grown 15.8 percent*, while their median hourly wage has fallen 4.4 percent after adjusting for inflation. The low wages produce a high turnover that the industry is struggling to reverse.HOME HEALTH AIDESGraph tracks number of Home Health Aides since 1999.MEDIAN HOURLY WAGE OF HOME HEALTH AIDESGraph tracks median hourly wage of Home Health Aides since 1999.*Does not include aides from the gray market.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); GERIATRICS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); VISITING NURSES (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (79%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); WOUND CARE (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%) 

COMPANY: VISITING NURSE SERVICE INC (53%); VISITING NURSE SERVICE OF NEW YORK (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Jane Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



8 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Why Do the Richest People Rarely Intend to Give It All Away?

BYLINE: By AUSTAN GOOLSBEE. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
For voyeurs of billionaires, a brief period from mid-February to mid-March serves up two of the juiciest glimpses they will get all year. In February, the Slate 60 list of the year's biggest philanthropic gifts comes out, followed in March by the Forbes magazine list of the world's richest people. 
 This time, one name -- Warren E. Buffett -- will appear conspicuously on both. His fortune will probably rank second in the world behind only Bill Gates's, as it has for some years. In philanthropy, however, Mr. Buffett is No. 1 by a wide margin. Last year, he shook the world of billionaires by pledging more than $42 billion for charity -- by far the largest philanthropic donation in history and close to the total of all the Slate 60 donations for the last six years combined. 
You could almost see the editors at Forbes airbrushing the perplexed and stricken looks off the faces of their other billionaires. He's giving away $42 billion? Is he crazy? Certainly that is not what most of them had in mind for their fortunes. 
 But the move by Mr. Buffett raises the question of exactly what the other billionaires do have in mind for their money. According to the economist Christopher Carroll at Johns Hopkins University, in his article ''Why Do the Rich Save So Much?,'' the seemingly obvious question of why people would want so much money turns out to be a real puzzle. 
 The rational economic argument for accumulating wealth says that people want to use it for something: to spend, to give to their families to enhance their future standard of living or to do something philanthropic. 
 When you look at the Slate 60 list, however, you see that philanthropy can't be the main reason. For all of their amazing generosity, the super-rich typically do not give away their entire fortunes, or even a big share. That's what makes Mr. Buffett so notable. 
 For 2006, the Slate 60 not including Mr. Buffett pledged or gave a little over $7 billion to charity. Yet as of September 2006, the 60 richest Americans had an estimated $630 billion of wealth, up more than $62 billion (about 10 percent) from the year before. People are accumulating money much faster than they are giving it away.
 Professor Carroll says the super-rich can't be accumulating the money with the intention of spending it, either, because no one could spend that much.
 To see his point, take Oracle's founder, Lawrence J. Ellison. Mr. Ellison's net worth last year was around $16 billion. And it will probably be much bigger when the list comes out in a few weeks. With $16 billion and a 10 percent rate of return, Mr. Ellison would need to spend more than $30 million a week simply to keep from accumulating more money than he already has, to say nothing of trying to spend down the $16 billion itself. 
 He spent something like $100 million on his Japanese-style mansion in Woodside, Calif., making it among the more expensive private residences ever built. But that is only about three weeks worth of the interest he earns on his wealth. And a house doesn't actually spend down his net worth because it is an asset that can be resold. At least part of the $100 million is just a different way of saving. 
 Mr. Ellison would have to spend that $30 million a week -- $183,000 an hour -- on things that can't be resold, like parties or meals, just to avoid increasing his wealth. While somebody might be able to spend like that -- Paris Hilton, maybe -- it certainly wouldn't be easy, and it can't explain why the super-rich accumulate.
 The last of the seemingly rational explanations is that the billionaires want to pass it on to their children. But, again, their fortunes are growing far faster than their number of heirs, so each of the children will have the same problems spending the money that their parents had. 
 Sam Walton's fortune is now divided among his family, and the Forbes list will probably show that his children account for 4 of the 10 richest Americans in the world (with his wife being No. 11). The children are in their 50s and 60s, and if they live to be 80, and their wealth grows at 10 percent a year, their fortunes will rise by four to eight times and they will each have more than they can ever spend or their children can spend, and so on. 
 Further, the data, according to Professor Carroll, just doesn't indicate that children make much of a difference. He found in the government's 1992 Survey of Consumer Finances, for example, that only 4 percent of the richest Americans said that providing an inheritance ranked in their top five reasons for saving. On top of that, he says, the data shows that elderly super-rich people who do not have children save just as much as the ones who do. 
 If it isn't to spend, to give to their children, or to give to charity, then why do the rich save so much? Professor Carroll says maybe they love money, not for what it can buy but just for its own sake. Perhaps they get something different from having money -- clout, power, the ability to dominate an industry. Or perhaps these are just competitive people who care about their position compared with other people on the list. 
 They accumulate more so they can lord it over the other families who have less -- a bit like having enough nuclear weapons to blow up the world several times but making more to stay ahead of the other guy.
 However you look at it, though, it isn't for the reasons that everyone else saves money.
 In a few weeks, you will see the list of the world's wealthiest people and how vastly their wealth has increased. Warren Buffett will probably be the only one pledging to give his fortune away. The other billionaires will probably think he's crazy, but it may make him the most rational person on the list.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (95%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (64%) Millionaires and Billionaires; Philanthropy; Biographical Information; Millionaires and Billionaires

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%) Slate (On-Line Magazine)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (60%); BILL GATES (58%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (50%) Austan Goolsbee; Warren Buffett; Christopher Carroll

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



9 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3173 words

PERSON: Arthur Bancroft Schlesinger 

HEADLINE: Arthur Schlesinger, Historian of Power, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian whose more than 20 books shaped discussions for two generations about America's past and who himself was a provocative, unabashedly liberal partisan, most notably in serving in the Kennedy White House, died last night in Manhattan. He was 89.
 The cause was a heart attack, said Mr. Schlesinger's son Stephen. He died at New York Downtown Hospital after being stricken in a restaurant.
Twice awarded the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award, Mr. Schlesinger exhaustively examined the administrations of two prominent presidents, Andrew Jackson and Franklin Delano Roosevelt, against a vast background of regional and economic rivalries. He strongly argued that strong individuals like Jackson and Roosevelt could bend history.
 The notes he took for President John F. Kennedy to use in writing his own history, became, after the president's assassination, grist for Mr. Schlesinger's own ''A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House,'' winner of both the Pulitzer and a National Book Award in 1966. 
 His 1978 book on the president's brother, ''Robert Kennedy and His Times,'' lauded the subject as the most politically creative man of his time but acknowledged that Robert had played a larger role in trying to overthrow President Fidel Castro of Cuba than the author had acknowledged in ''A Thousand Days.'' 
 Mr. Schlesinger worked on both brothers' presidential campaigns, and some critics suggested he had trouble separating history from sentiment. Gore Vidal called ''A Thousand Days'' a political novel, and many noted that the book ignored the president's sexual wanderings. Others were unhappy he told so much, particularly taking the unusual step of asserting that the president was unhappy with his secretary of state, Dean Rusk.
 Mr. Schlesinger saw life as a walk through history. He wrote that he could not stroll down Fifth Avenue without wondering how the street and the people on it would have looked a hundred years ago.
 ''He is willing to argue that the search for an understanding of the past is not simply an aesthetic exercise but a path to the understanding of our own time,'' Alan Brinkley, the historian, wrote.
 Mr. Schlesinger wore a trademark dotted bowtie, showed an acid wit and had a magnificent bounce to his step. Between marathons of writing as much as 5,000 words a day, he was a fixture at Georgetown salons when Washington was clubbier and more elitist, a lifelong aficionado of perfectly-blended martinis and a man about New York, whether at Truman Capote's famous parties or escorting Jacqueline Kennedy to the movies.
 In the McCarthy era and beyond, he was a leader of anti-Communist liberals and a fierce partisan who called for the impeachment of Richard M. Nixon, which never happened, and just as passionately denounced that of President Bill Clinton, when it did.
 In his last book, ''War and the American Presidency,'' published in 2004, Mr. Schlesinger challenged the foundations of the foreign policy of President Bush, calling the invasion of Iraq and its aftermath ''a ghastly mess.'' He said the president's curbs on civil liberties would have the same result as similar actions throughout American history.
 ''We hate ourselves in the morning,'' he wrote.
 However liberal, he was not a slave to what came to be called political correctness. He spiritedly defended the old-fashioned American melting pot against proponents of multiculturalism, the idea that ethnicities should retain separate identities and even celebrate them. He elicited tides of criticism by comparing Afrocentrism to the Ku Klux Klan.
 History and its telling, quite literally, ran in Mr. Schlesinger's blood. One of his reputed ancestors was George Bancroft, who over 40 years starting in 1834 wrote the monumental 12-volume ''History of the United States from the Discovery of the Continent.'' His father, Arthur M. Schlesinger, was an immensely influential historian who led the way in making social history a genuine discipline.
 The son changed his middle name from Bancroft to Meier, his father's middle name, in his early teens, and began calling himself junior. He would later adopt and develop many of his father's ideas about history, including the theory that history moves in cycles from liberal to conservative periods. His father gave him the idea for his Harvard honors thesis.
 But the younger Mr. Schlesinger, for all the tradition he embodied, had a refreshing streak of informality. While working in the Kennedy White House, he found time to review movies for Show magazine. He also admitted his mistakes. One, he said, was neglecting to mention President Jackson's brutal treatment of the Indians in his Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Age of Jackson.'' It was published when he was 27, and is still standard reading.
 The book rejected earlier interpretations linking the rise of Jacksonian democracy with westward expansion. Instead, it gave greater importance to a coalition of intellectuals and workers in the Northeast who were determined to check the growing power of business.
 The book sold more than 90,000 copies in its first year, and won the 1946 Pulitzer Prize for history.
 His multivolume history of the New Deal, ''The Age of Roosevelt,'' began in 1957 with ''The Crisis of the Old Order, 1919-1933,'' continued in 1959 with ''The Coming of the New Deal'' and culminated in 1960 with ''The Politics of Upheaval.'' The first volume won two prestigious awards for history-writing, the Francis Parkman Prize from the Society of American Historians and the Frederic Bancroft Prize from Columbia University. The book was praised for capturing the interplay between ideas and action, stressing tensions similar to those Mr. Schlesinger had described in the Jackson era.
 ''This book clearly launches one of the important historical enterprises of our time,'' the historian C. Vann Woodward wrote in The Saturday Review.
 Mr. Schlesinger never stopped seeming like the brightest student in class, ''the eternal Quiz Kid,'' in Time magazine's phrase. He had no advanced degrees but his scholarly output, not to mention reams of articles for popular publications like TV Guide and Ladies' Home Journal, dwarfed those who did. Even as a child he felt a duty to manage conversations, not to say monopolize them.
 An article in The New York Times magazine in 1965 told of his mother asking him to be quiet so she could make her point.
 ''Mother, how can I be quiet if you insist upon making statements that are not factually accurate,'' the boy, then 11 or 12, replied. 
 Arthur Bancroft Schlesinger was born in Columbus, Ohio, on Oct. 15, 1917, the elder of the two sons of Arthur Meier Schlesinger and the former Elizabeth Bancroft. The younger Mr. Schlesinger wrote approvingly that Bancroft the historian, his mother's ancestor, was a presidential ghostwriter and bon vivant in addition to being called the father of American history.
 It was his father whom ''young Arthur,'' as he was known, idolized. His argument that urban labor was behind much of the upheaval in Jackson's time was taken up and brilliantly expanded by his son.
 The younger Schlesinger in the first volume of his memoirs, ''A Life in the Twentieth Century: Innocent Beginnings, 1917-1950'' (2000), called his childhood ''sunny.'' He spent his earliest years in Iowa City, where his father was on the faculty of the University of Iowa. The family moved to Cambridge, Mass., in 1924, when his father was appointed to the Harvard faculty. Arthur Sr. later became chairman of the Harvard history department.
 Young Arthur first attended public schools in Cambridge, but his parents lost faith in public education in his sophomore year after a civics teacher informed Arthur's class that inhabitants of Albania were called Albinos and had white hair and pink eyes. He was shipped to the Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire.
 He graduated at 15, but the family felt he was too young to go to Harvard. So, while his father was on sabbatical, the whole family took a long trip around the world. Mr. Schlesinger then went on to Harvard and graduated summa cum laude in 1938.
 From boyhood he socialized with his father's intellectually powerful friends, from the humorist James Thurber to the novelist John Dos Passos. When he was 14, he met H. L. Mencken, and later corresponded with him. At Harvard, he knew such leading intellectual lights as the historian Samuel Eliot Morison.
 Mr. Schlesinger later became part of the powerful circle surrounding the journalist Joseph Alsop, a group that included Philip Graham, publisher of The Washington Post, W. Averill Harriman, former governor of New York, and the lawyer Clark Clifford. Mr. Schlesinger met Mr. Kennedy, then a senator, at an Alsop soiree. His impression: ''Kennedy seemed very sincere and not unintelligent, but kind of on the conservative side.''
 Mr. Schlesinger, partly through his appreciation of history, fully realized his good fortune. ''I have lived through interesting times and had the luck of knowing some interesting people,'' he wrote. 
 A huge part of his luck was his father, who guided much of his early research, and even suggested the topic for his senior honors: Orestes A. Brownson, a 19th-century journalist, novelist and theologian. It was published by Little, Brown in 1938 as ''Orestes A. Brownson: A Pilgrim's Progress.'' Henry Steele Commager in The New York Times Book Review, said the book introduced ''a new and distinguished talent in the field of historical portraiture.''
 Mr. Schlesinger spent a year at Peterhouse College of Cambridge University on a fellowship and returned to Harvard, where he had been selected to be one of the first crop of junior fellows. Their research was supported for three years, but they were not allowed to pursue Ph.D.'s, a requirement intended to keep them off the standard academic treadmill.
 While a fellow, Mr. Schlesinger married Marian Cannon, whom he had met during his junior year at Harvard. Her sister was married to John King Fairbank, the eminent sinologist. The Schlesingers had twins, Stephen and Katharine, and two more children, Christina and Andrew. Katharine died in 2004. The Schlesingers were divorced in 1970.
 He married Alexandra Emmet the next year. They had a boy, Robert, named for Robert F. Kennedy. She had a son from a previous marriage, Peter Allan. Mr. Schlesinger is survived by all three, in addition to his former wife and their three surviving. 
 As a fellow, Mr. Schlesinger managed to pound out 4,000 to 5,000 words a day on the Jackson work as his year-old twins frolicked around his desk. His work on the book was interrupted by World War II. Bad eyesight precluded his serving in the military, so he got a job as a writer for the Office of War Information. One assignment was writing a message from President Roosevelt to the Daughters of the American Revolution. Mr. Schlesinger doubted the president saw such masterpieces.
 He next served in the Office of Strategic Planning, forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, in Washington, London and Paris. Immediately after the war, Mr. Schlesinger went to Washington as a freelance journalist for Fortune and other magazines. After 15 months, in 1946, he accepted an associate professorship at Harvard. He said he was so nervous teaching that he vomited before each class; eventually his presentation became so deft that his History 169 course was the department's most popular offering.
 He began to carve out a political identity, one committed to the social goals of the New Deal and staunchly anti-Communist. In 1947, he was a founder of the Americans for Democratic Action, the best-known liberal pressure group.
 In 1949, Mr. Schlesinger solidified his position as the spokesman for postwar liberalism with his book ''The Vital Center: The Politics of Freedom.'' Inspired by the Protestant theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, he argued that pragmatic, reform-minded liberalism, limited in scope, was the best that man could hope for politically.
 ''Problems will always torment us,'' he wrote, ''because all important problems are insoluble: that is why they are important. The good comes from the continuing struggle to try and solve them, not from the vain hope of their solution.''
 Starting with writing speeches for Adlai Stevenson in both his presidential campaigns, Mr. Schlesinger was a player in big-time Democratic politics. Even though Senator Barry Goldwater tried to have him fired from the Kennedy White House because of his liberal bias, one of Mr. Goldwater's colleagues paid Mr. Schlesinger something of a compliment. As quoted anonymously in ''The Making of the President, 1964'' by Theodore H. White, the Goldwater associate said: ''At least you got to say this for a liberal s.o.b. like Schlesinger -- when his candidates go into action, he's there writing speeches for them.''
 And books. One of his major contributions to the Kennedy campaign was a book, ''Kennedy or Nixon: Does It Make Any Difference?'' Under Nixon, the book concluded, the country would ''sink into mediocrity and cant and payola and boredom.'' Kennedy meant rising to ''the splendor of our ideals.''
 On Jan. 9, 1961, a gray, chilly, afternoon, President-elect Kennedy dropped by Mr. Schlesinger's house on Irving Street in Cambridge. He asked the professor to be a special assistant in the White House. Mr. Schlesinger answered, ''If you think I can help, I would like to come.''
 In ''Johnny, We Hardly Knew Ye,'' (1970) Kenneth P. O'Donnell and David F. Powers suggest that the new president saw some political risk in hiring such an unabashed liberal. He decided to keep the appointment quiet until another liberal, Chester Bowles, was confirmed as under secretary of state.
 The authors, both Kennedy aides, said they asked Mr. Kennedy if he took Mr. Schlesinger on to write the official history of the administration. Mr. Kennedy said he would write it himself.
 ''But Arthur will probably write his own,'' the president said, ''and it will be better for us if he's in the White House, seeing what goes on, instead of reading about it in The New York Times and Time magazine.''
 Time later described Mr. Schlesinger's role in the Kennedy administration as a bridge to the intelligentsia as well as to the Adlai Stevenson-Eleanor Roosevelt wing of the Democratic Party. If the president wanted to meet the intellectual Isaiah Berlin or the composer Gian Carlo Menotti, Mr. Schlesinger arranged it. The president was said to enjoy Mr. Schlesinger's gossip during weekly lunches, although he rarely attended the brainy seminars Robert Kennedy asked Mr. Schlesinger to organize.
 Mr. Schlesinger distinguished himself early in the administration by being one of the few in the White House to question the invasion of Cuba planned by the Eisenhower administration. But he then became a loyal soldier, telling reporters a misleading story that the Cuban exiles landing at the Bay of Pigs were no greater than 400 when in fact they numbered 1,400.
 In a discussion of that ill-fated action afterward, McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser, reminded the president that Mr. Schlesinger had written a memo opposing the invasion. ''That will look pretty good when he gets around to writing his book about my administration,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''Only he better not publish that memorandum while I'm still alive.''
 After President Kennedy was assassinated, President Lyndon B. Johnson kept Mr. Schlesinger on but gave him virtually nothing to do. He resigned in January 1964. Mr. Schlesinger soon wrote an article saying that John Kennedy had not really wanted Mr. Johnson as his vice-presidential candidate, but had picked him for political reasons. 
 Mr. Schlesinger, who resigned from Harvard when his leave of absence expired in 1962, worked on his Kennedy book and for the first few months of 1966 was at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. He then joined the faculty of the City University of New York as Albert Schweitzer Professor of the Humanities.
 He settled in Manhattan, where he remained until his death. His visibility was high -- from the society pages to the column he wrote for the Op-Ed page of The Wall Street Journal to television appearances. He continued to protect the Kennedy image, despite steady disclosures that smudged it. In 1996, he angered conservatives by selecting historians for a poll that found Presidents Kennedy and Johnson had been ''high average'' presidents and President Ronald Reagan ''low average.''
 His writing was ceaseless, including the book and articles criticizing the Iraq war. In ''The Imperial Presidency'' (1973), he argued that President Richard M. Nixon had so magnified the powers of the president that he must be impeached. In a review, Jeane Kirkpatrick, the former ambassador to the United Nations under Reagan, retorted that Mr. Schlesinger had applied different standards to Democratic presidents.
 In 1978, Mr. Schlesinger scored a literary and commercial triumph with ''Robert Kennedy and His Times.'' In The New York Times Book Review, Garry Wills, who had once called Mr. Schlesinger ''a Kennedy courtier,'' rated the work ''learned and thorough.'' It won a National Book Award.
 In the book, Mr. Schlesinger compared the brothers: ''John Kennedy was a realist brilliantly disguised as a romantic, Robert Kennedy, a romantic stubbornly disguised as a realist.'' 
 Mr. Schlesinger had hoped that Robert would ignite a new spirit of liberalism but grew disappointed when Jimmy Carter rose to lead the party in 1976. He considered Mr. Carter woefully conservative and did not vote for him in either of his campaigns. He worked for Senator Edward M. Kennedy in his brief presidential campaign in 1980.
 In 1991, Mr. Schlesinger provoked a backlash with ''The Disuniting of America,'' an attack on the emergent ''multicultural society'' in which he said Afrocentrists claimed superiority and demanded that their separate identity be honored by schools and other institutions.
 The novelist Ishmael Reed denounced Mr. Schlesinger as a ''follower of David Duke,'' the former Ku Klux Klan leader. The Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. caricatured Mr. Schlesinger's arguments as a demand for ''cultural white-face.''
 Mr. Schlesinger was nonplussed. He frequently described himself as an unreconstructed New Dealer whose basic thinking had changed little in a half-century.
 ''What the hell,'' he answered when questioned by The Washington Post about his attack on multiculturalism. ''You have to call them as you see them. This too shall pass.''
 Mr. Schlesinger continued to write articles, sign petitions and in 2006 received an award from the National Portrait Gallery for his presidential service. His failing health prevented him from attending the funeral of his good friend John Kenneth Galbraith that May. Mr. Schlesinger's son Stephen read some words he had written about Mr. Galbraith: ''Underneath his joy in combat, he was a do-gooder in the dark of night.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An obituary about the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger in some copies last Thursday, and in early-edition copies the next day, misstated the publication year of ''Johnny, We Hardly Knew Ye,'' a book about President John F. Kennedy by Kenneth P. O'Donnell and David F. Powers, who wrote that President Kennedy saw some political risk in hiring Mr. Schlesinger, an ardent liberal, as an adviser. It was published in 1972, not 1970.
 The obituary last Thursday also misstated the name of a federal agency that Mr. Schlesinger worked for during World War II. It was the Office of Strategic Services, a forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency; it was not the Office of Strategic Planning. It also misspelled the middle name of a former governor of New York who, with Mr. Schlesinger, was part of a powerful circle surrounding the journalist Joseph Alsop. He was W. Averell Harriman, not Averill.
 The obituary on Thursday also referred imprecisely at one point to the relationship of the 19th-century historian George Bancroft to Mr. Schlesinger's mother, the former Elizabeth Bancroft. Although Mr. Bancroft was believed to be an ancestor of hers, there is no definitive evidence that they were related. And the obituary omitted the last word in a paragraph about Mr. Schlesinger's survivors. Referring to his wife, son and stepson, it should have read: ''Mr. Schlesinger is survived by all three, in addition to his former wife and their three surviving children.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. with John F. Kennedy, whose presidency he detailed in ''A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House.'' Mr. Schlesinger, right, in his office at the City University of New York. (Photos by Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. C14)
 Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times, 1997)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%) 

JOHN F KENNEDY (94%); BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) Douglas Martin; Arthur M Jr Schlesinger; John Fitzgerald (1917-63) Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (69%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



10 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Sarkozy Outlines Foreign Policy for France

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
The center-right presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy wants to toughen sanctions against Iran, keep Turkey out of the European Union, create an independent European defense strategy and have a friendly but not a submissive relationship with the United States.
 Unveiling his foreign policy on Wednesday, Mr. Sarkozy, who is the interior minister and head of the governing party, the Union for a Popular Movement, called the American-led invasion of Iraq a ''historic mistake'' and thanked President Jacques Chirac for his ''lucidity'' in keeping France out of it. 
But Mr. Sarkozy was vague about what the United States should do in Iraq. He warned that withdrawing American troops too soon would ''lead to chaos'' but said avoiding a withdrawal would lead the Iraqis to ''react with more violence, and that would benefit the terrorists.''
 With a speech and a news conference on Wednesday, Mr. Sarkozy sharpened his message, subtly portraying himself as tougher and more reliable on national security than his main rival, the Socialist candidate Segolene Royal. 
 He defined Iran as the most urgent issue he would face if elected, saying, ''The idea of an Iran with nuclear weapons is unacceptable.'' 
 But he parted company with Ms. Royal, who has said Iran must be denied even a civilian nuclear program. Mr. Sarkozy branded her position as irresponsible, adding that France should help other countries build nuclear power plants, beginning with Algeria, its former colony.
 Mr. Sarkozy enjoys a slight lead over Ms. Royal in the first round of the French presidential election on April 22, according to some opinion polls. Even so, a high level of voters have expressed only tepid support for either of them. 
 In addition, a recent surge of support for the centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and the candidacy of the far-right National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen make the outcome of the first round even more uncertain.
 Without mentioning Ms. Royal by name, Mr. Sarkozy sought to create distance between them. He pledged to keep French military spending at 2 percent of the gross domestic product, suggesting that it was unfair that France and Britain were the only two members of the European Union to spend enough and make sacrifices for defense. He called it important, for example, for France to build a second aircraft carrier. 
 Ms. Royal, by contrast, said this month that France should take the money earmarked for the carrier and spend it on education and research instead. 
 At the time, Mr. Sarkozy criticized her proposal as a ''curious idea,'' and Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie, a Sarkozy supporter, called it ''irresponsible.''
 In his remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Sarkozy said human rights would be a cornerstone of his foreign policy, adding that the president of France should speak out against abuses in China and Russia. 
 Ms. Royal, during a recent trip to China, seemed to compliment her hosts in saying, ''Sometimes the justice is swifter than in France.'' The period between arrest and execution can be only weeks in China's repressive justice system, and she was criticized by human rights advocates and her political foes as naive. 
 Since Mr. Sarkozy's trip last September to the United States, where he lavished praise on the country and was granted -- at his request -- a meeting and a photo session with President Bush, Mr. Sarkozy has sought to assure French voters that he will not bend to the will of America. 
 ''I ask our American friends to let us be free, free to be their friends,'' he said Wednesday.
 To underscore his independence from the United States, he cited his opposition to Turkey's entry into the 27-country European Union, which the Bush administration has strongly promoted.
 ''President Bush is very attached to the idea that Turkey become a member of the E.U.,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''So you will judge my capacity for independence from the U.S. For me, it's no. Turkey is not meant to join the E.U., because Turkey is not a European country.'' 
 Ms. Royal has yet to devote an entire speech and news conference to foreign policy. Instead, she has found herself on the defensive for a number of offhand remarks in that field.
 Last month, for example, she created a diplomatic firestorm when she shifted some of her positions along the way and suggested that she was sympathetic to independence for Quebec. Her comment was sharply criticized by Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, who said, ''Experience teaches that it is highly inappropriate for a foreign leader to interfere in the democratic affairs of another country.'' 
 A few days later, a well-known French comedian and prankster, Gerald Dahan, trapped Ms. Royal by tape-recording a telephone call with her in which he feigned a Quebec accent and posed as the province's premier, Jean Charest. Mr. Dahan said Ms. Royal's comments on Quebec would be as damaging as if he were to support independence for the French Mediterranean island of Corsica.
 ''The French would not be against this, by the way,'' Ms. Royal responded in the recording, which was played on the radio. ''Don't repeat that. It will create another incident in France. It's a secret.'' 
 Mr. Sarkozy pounced on her words, saying: ''For me, Corsica is not a joke. It is the Republic.'' 
 Ms. Royal was also widely criticized during a trip to the Middle East in December in which she did not speak out when a Hezbollah member of the Lebanese Parliament compared Israel to Nazi Germany. 
 Mr. Sarkozy came under fire this week, not on foreign policy, but an issue much closer to home. 
 The satirical investigative weekly Le Canard Enchaine reported in its current issue that Mr. Sarkozy had received close to $400,000 in rebates on the 1997 purchase and renovation of his apartment in Neuilly, an upscale Paris suburb, where he was mayor from 1983 to 2002. 
 The paper, citing local property transaction records, said Mr. Sarkozy had paid 12 to 35 percent less per square meter than his neighbors to Lasserre, the real estate development company that sold him the apartment and was granted a number of real estate permits in Neuilly over the years. 
 Mr. Sarkozy denied the allegation on Tuesday, adding that the regional tax department confirmed in 1997 that the purchase had been made at the market price. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (67%); POWER PLANTS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (92%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (78%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (58%); FRANCOIS BAYROU (58%); MICHELE ALLIOT-MARIE (57%) Elaine Sciolino; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Segolene Royal

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); TURKEY (92%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) France; Iran; Iraq; France

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



11 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Calm Returns to Market, but Worries Persist Over Subprime Loans

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Calm returned to Wall Street yesterday.
 Encouraged by comments from Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and a bounce-back in the Chinese markets where Tuesday's global sell-off began, stocks rose modestly in the United States.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which tumbled as much 545 points on Tuesday, closed yesterday up 52.39 points, or 0.4 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.56 percent, and the Nasdaq, 0.34 percent. Asian and European markets ended the day lower, but the Shanghai market climbed 3.9 percent. Shanghai opened slightly lower today. [C4] 
 Yet one important concern -- that Wall Street's bet on home loans to people with weak, or subprime, credit is souring quickly as defaults rise and home prices weaken -- has not gone away. 
 Wall Street executives and analysts acknowledged that the subprime segment of the mortgage business has faltered because of the performance of loans issued in 2006, but many contend that the problems are well contained and do not yet pose a significant threat to investment banks or the broader global financial system. 
 Cracks have become more visible lately, however. Insurance premiums on the potential default of Wall Street bonds have risen sharply, indicating possible concern among bond traders about potential exposure. 
 ''It is impossible to get a number'' on big investment bank's exposure to subprime loans, said Richard X. Bove, an analyst with Punk Ziegel & Company. ''And I don't think they even know.''
 The cost of insurance against potential bond default on Bear Stearns's debt, for example, increased 40 percent recently, from about 22 basis points in mid-January to more than 31 on Tuesday, according to Lehman Brothers data. 
 Insurance costs for major firms with exposure to the subprime market, like Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch increased similarly. Brad Hintz, an analyst with Sanford Bernstein, said investors are increasingly concerned about Wall Street's exposure to that market. 
 Investors, while heartened yesterday by Mr. Bernanke's prediction of moderate economic growth, have had a revolving list of concerns: a slowing economy, oil prices and accelerating inflation. But now a major concern is whether the problems of subprime lending will spill over into the broader mortgage market, which at $6.5 trillion at the end of 2006 is the biggest bond market. 
 During the housing boom, Wall Street developed a series of profitable connections to the subprime market that included providing financing to companies that made loans to homeowners, buying finished mortgages, packaging them into bonds and then trading them. Last year, the subprime business generated $600 billion in loans, about 20 percent of all mortgages written, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. While down slightly from 2005, that is up from $120 billion in 2001. 
 Wall Street now faces risks on two fronts. First, it stands to earn less from originating, packaging and trading mortgage-backed securities. Second, it will have to absorb more of the losses from loans when borrowers are no longer making payments. 
 In the past, it could demand that mortgage companies buy back defaulted loans, but such large ''put back'' requests have driven many lenders out of business, and big investment banks are making many more loans through subsidiaries they own. As a result, the banks retain more of the risk in the form of ''residual'' interest in the loans they bundle into negotiable securities, a process known as securitization.
 ''The brokerage firms have done something curious: they are not abandoning subprime mortgage origination; they are taking positions,'' Mr. Hintz said.
 In December, Merrill Lynch completed a $1.3 billion acquisition of First Franklin, which was among the 10 biggest subprime lenders last year, and Morgan Stanley bought Saxon Capital for $706 million.
 Bank executives say they anticipated the problems in subprime and they have been buying lenders because they want to better control lending standards in the industry. 
 ''Saxon was a long-term strategic decision,'' said Anthony Tufariello, who heads the securitized product group at Morgan Stanley. ''And we are happy we made that decision because we bought it as a servicing platform with the expectation that the market would undergo dislocation.''
 And the deal-making continues. Citigroup said that it would provide working capital and a credit line to ACC Capital Holdings, which owns Ameriquest and Argent Mortgage. Although the terms were not disclosed, it includes an option for Citigroup to acquire Argent, which lends through mortgage brokers.
 By some estimates, the potential risks to the big banks are relatively modest. Mr. Hintz, of Sanford Bernstein, calculates that Lehman Brothers had $7.3 billion in residual risks at the end of 2006, $2 billion of it in noninvestment grade mortgages. If the noninvestment grade residuals decline by 20 percent, Lehman's earnings would decline 3.2 percent after taking into account compensation costs and taxes; Bear Stearns's income would fall about 4.1 percent.
 A Lehman spokeswoman declined to comment on her company's mortgage business. 
 Not all analysts are as sanguine. 
 Guy Moszkowski, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, downgraded Goldman Sachs, Bear Stearns and Lehman based on the erosion of risk appetite among its customers and because he believes the problems of subprime lending are spreading to ''Alt-A'' mortgages, which fall between subprime and prime and accounted for about 13 percent of loans written last year.
 Investment banks entered the subprime market because the loans generated high yields, making them popular among pension funds, insurance companies, hedge funds and foreign investors. On the other side of the food chain, small mortgage companies and brokers stood ready to feed Wall Street with loans. The banks supplied the cash for the loans, and agreed to buy the loans from them.
 The business generated multiple lines of income for Wall Street, including underwriting and trading. By 2005, the residential mortgage-backed securities market was generating 15 percent of fixed income revenues, and the subprime sector was bringing in 3 percent to 4 percent of fixed income revenues, Mr. Hintz said. 
 Lehman, RBS Greenwich Capital Markets, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch were the biggest underwriters of mortgage-backed securities in 2006, with Lehman controlling 10.7 percent of the market and underwriting $51.8 billion worth of mortgage-backed securities, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. 
 For some analysts, the bigger risk to Wall Street is simply that the spigot has been turned off. 
 ''Does the flow of mortgages to the securitization machine slow?'' asked Jeffrey Harte, an analyst with Sandler O'Neill. ''That's what I'm most worried about.''
 Volume is falling. Production of nonagency mortgage securities fell almost 50 percent between January and February, according to preliminary numbers compiled by Inside Mortgage Finance. The data indicate that new subprime and Alt-A loans fell significantly in February. 
 But Wall Street seems to believe it will come out on top, surviving where smaller players lacked the resources. ''The economics of the business are moving in favor of well-capitalized entities who don't have to go outside'' for other services, said Gyan Sinha, who heads asset-backed securities research at Bear Stearns. 
 One gauge of the subprime business is an index that tracks bonds backed by subprime loans, the ABX.HE. The index for loans issued in 2006 has fallen sharply in two months. Its price is used to calculate the cost of insuring the bonds from losses. 
 On Tuesday, the cost to insure a low-rated, ''BBB-'' portion of the bonds jumped to nearly $1,983 for $10,000 of bonds, from $1,641 on Monday and $410 at the end of December, according to the Markit and CDS IndexCo. The index, which was little changed yesterday, tracks the performance of 20 mortgage bonds, or pools, and provides a snapshot of complex market.
 Each mortgage pool is broken into a number of tranches, which carry different risks and rewards for investors. Portions rated ''AAA,'' for instance, carry the least risk and provide the smallest return; investors in these pools also get paid off first when borrowers repay their loans. The riskiest portions of the debt, or the residuals, are often held by the mortgage companies that issued the loans or the Wall Street firms that underwrote the bond.
 The big banks' optimism is based in large part on the structure of these bonds. For one thing, most bonds collect more in interest payments than they are obligated to pay out. They also include a cash reserve, or residual, that can be dipped into if interest payments fall short because of defaulting borrowers.
 ''You can have a pretty long period of stress before you start to see actual write-downs,'' said Anthony V. Thompson, who heads research of asset-backed securities at Deutsche Bank Securities.
 Much depends on the strength of these bonds' structure, which is determined largely by agencies like Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings.
 Skeptics say that Wall Street's faith in complexity has proved wrong before, most recently in the meltdown of the manufactured housing, or trailer home, market. The business boomed in the early and mid-1990s before collapsing in the late '90s when many buyers of the homes defaulted.
 ''These credit corrections are not unexpected,'' Mr. Thomson said. ''What's harder to predict is the precise moment when the market decides to reprice the risk.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, a day after a tumultuous sell-off. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 People in Mumbai watched India's finance minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, speaking on television about his nation's budget yesterday, after markets there tumbled, tracking worldwide losses. (Photo by Gautam Singh/Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%) 

COMPANY: LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Bear Stearns Cos; Morgan Stanley; Goldman Sachs Group; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc

TICKER: LTS (NYSE MKT) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Jenny Anderson; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



12 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Not Worried About Market Drop

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Wednesday that he saw little cause for alarm in either the previous day's stock market plunge or new evidence of slowing economic growth.
 Mr. Bernanke's soothing comments helped lift share prices and recapture some of the ground they lost on Tuesday. His remarks contrasted with the more pessimistic tone of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, who cautioned on Monday that a recession was a possibility.
''We are looking for moderate growth in the U.S. economy going forward,'' Mr. Bernanke told a Congressional hearing, adding that ''there's a reasonable possibility that we'll see some strengthening of the economy'' toward the middle of the year. 
 Though Mr. Greenspan did not go so far as to predict a recession, the mere fact that he mentioned the word was enough to aggravate a global market downswing that began in Shanghai.
 Mr. Bernanke expressed little alarm about the plunge, telling lawmakers that ''there didn't seem to be any single trigger'' for Tuesday's market rout and that markets ''seem to be working well, normally.''
 Nor did Mr. Bernanke betray any worry about a new report by the Commerce Department, which sharply lowered its estimate of growth during the final quarter of 2006 to 2.2 percent from its earlier estimate of 3.5 percent.
 The downward revision, which stemmed in part from new changes in estimates of inventory-building activities by businesses, were roughly in line with predictions by Wall Street analysts.
 But Mr. Bernanke went further, saying the downward revision had actually bolstered the Federal Reserve's view that the economy was poised for mildly slower growth as well as a slight decline in inflationary pressures.
 ''My view is that -- taking all the new data into account -- that there is really no material change in our expectations about the U.S. economy,'' he said. ''I would add parenthetically that the downward revision of the fourth-quarter G.D.P. numbers we got this morning is actually more consistent with our overall view of the economy than were the original numbers.''
 The Federal Reserve's forecast calls for the economy to expand by 2.5 to 3 percent in 2007, down from about 3 percent last year, and for the unemployment rate to remain below 5 percent -- a level that many economists say is roughly equal to full employment.
 Fed officials are hoping to achieve a soft landing for the economy, with the underlying pace of inflation slowing to about 2 percent over the next year from about 2.6 percent over the last 12 months. 
 Mr. Bernanke's sanguine comments on Wednesday seemed at odds with those of Mr. Greenspan, who spoke by satellite on Monday to a conference in Hong Kong. Though he stepped down as Fed chairman more than a year ago, Mr. Greenspan's remarks can still move markets.
 ''When you get this far away from a recession, invariably forces build up for the next recession, and indeed we are beginning to see that sign,'' he said, according to The Associated Press. 
 But Mr. Greenspan stopped short of predicting a recession, saying that he could not rule out the possibility even though forecasters were not predicting one. His point seemed to be to caution investors against being too complacent, a theme he stressed in the months before he stepped down last year.
 Timothy Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, echoed Mr. Bernanke's calm about the economy. ''The U.S. economy has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate remarkable resilience,'' Mr. Geithner said in a speech at a conference on risk management.
 Many economists agree with Mr. Bernanke that the economy is likely to keep expanding, though probably at a pace of less than 3 percent for at least the first half of this year.
 In general, the government's sharp downward revision of growth in the final months of last year came as little surprise. Almost half of the revision reflected data showing that companies increased their inventories less than had been assumed. But that can actually spur growth in subsequent quarters, as manufacturers increase production to restock.
 More disturbing was a bigger-than-expected drop in spending on capital goods, which declined 3.2 percent rather than the 1.8 percent originally estimated. Lower capital spending could be an indicator of a slowdown in business investment, at a time when Fed officials are counting on business investment to offset the sharp drop in home building.
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department reported that sales of new homes fell 16.6 percent in January -- the biggest drop since 1994.
 Fed officials have expressed cautious optimism that the housing market is beginning to stabilize after a big decline. But the central bank is steering through a delicate transition, with inventories of unsold houses at high levels and rising anxiety about the volume of subprime mortgages granted to people with comparatively low incomes and weak credit ratings.
 Mr. Bernanke acknowledged concern about the subprime market, where several lenders have closed and others have been forced to increase reserves for bad loans.
 But the Fed chairman said he saw no sign yet that problems with subprime mortgages were leading to problems in the broader economy.
 Nariman Behravesh, chief economist for Global Insight in Lexington, Mass., said that Mr. Bernanke appeared to have had a calming effect on investors. 
 ''The measure of Bernanke's effect was that on a day when the economic news was not particularly good, the market was up,'' Mr. Behravesh said. ''His message was that we seem to be on track, don't overreact and don't panic.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told the House Budget Committee yesterday that there is ''a reasonable possibility that we'll see some strengthening of the economy'' toward the middle of this year. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Commerce Department

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



13 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: After the Sell-Off

 BODY:
In a way, the stock market's rebound yesterday was as troubling as Tuesday's rout.
 Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, managed to calm the market, saying that one could reasonably hope for a stronger economy by midyear if housing stabilized soon, and if manufacturing strengthened. But those are big ifs. 
The torrent of bad news on housing is only worsening, with a report yesterday that new home sales for January had their steepest slide in 13 years. And as David Leonhardt pointed out in yesterday's Times, manufacturing has already slipped into a recession, with activity contracting in two of the last three months. How is it then that investors took Mr. Bernanke's words as a ''buy'' signal? 
 The short answer is that investors have a proclivity to hear what they want to hear. On Tuesday, warning bells were simply too loud to ignore, including the steep sell-off in stocks in Shanghai, downbeat reports on the United States economy and an attempt in Afghanistan on the life of Vice President Dick Cheney. Yesterday, investors needed only the slightest prod to revert to ''hear no evil'' form.
 The more complete answer is also more troubling. In recent years, as housing and stock markets surged, even highly speculative investors have been encouraged to an unusual degree by their bankers and regulators, who are supposed to restrain investors' more maniacal bents, but instead have done little to quell or question excessive risk-taking. 
 Just last week, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. and top financial regulators said the government need not -- and should not -- provide greater oversight for the $1.4 trillion hedge fund industry, or, by extension, the trillions of dollars more in complex derivative transactions spawned by the industry. That stance is mostly free-market ideology run amok. But it is also based on the unproven assumption that unregulated investing, which dispersed risk and reduced volatility as markets surged, will continue to do so when markets tank. 
 The upshot is a one-sided bet for investors. They have explicit assurances from regulators and policy makers that almost anything goes when the markets are hot, and implicit assurances -- based on past experience -- that the Fed would lower interest rates to contain a financial crisis should one erupt. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that easing up on rates would have the same powerful effect in a future crisis as it had in the past. 
 The next crisis appears to be building around weakness in the United States, not in Russia or Asia or South America. That means money could flow out of the country if markets were rattled. That would weaken the dollar and require speedy and complex remedial action by the world's central banks -- not just a rate cut by the Fed. Tuesday's stock market decline could turn out to have been a garden-variety correction. But major market participants would be wise to rethink their assumptions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) 

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%); DICK CHENEY (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007



14 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Personal Incomes Up; Construction Off Sharply

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
Personal incomes rose in January at the fastest rate in a year, bolstered by bonuses to highly paid executives, but construction activity fell sharply as the housing industry continued to slump. 
 The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that personal incomes rose by 1 percent in January while consumer spending increased 0.5 percent. The income advance was the largest since a 1.3 percent jump in January 2006. The income and spending gains were bigger than had been expected.
The government also reported that construction activity fell by 0.8 percent in January, double the decline that analysts had been expecting.
 The weakness was led by a 1.8 percent decline in spending on housing construction. It was the 10th consecutive fall in residential construction and another sign of the steep slowdown in the once-booming sector.
 An index of manufacturing activity -- tracked by the Institute for Supply Management -- posted a better-than-expected increase in February.
 The index, rose to 52.3 in February, up from the reading of 49.3 in January. An index reading of 50 or more indicates manufacturing is expanding, while one below 50 signals a decline in manufacturing.
 Economists said the increases in workers' incomes and consumer spending were positive signs that the economy would be able to weather the troubles in housing and manufacturing without going into a recession.
 ''Consumers remain one of the bright spots of the U.S. economy,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight. ''Steady consumer spending will prevent the current softness in the economy from turning into anything worse.''
 The Labor Department's weekly report on the number of newly laid-off workers filing for unemployment benefits showed a rise of 7,000 last week, to 338,000. 
 Economists had been expecting a drop in jobless claims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (93%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%) United States Economy; Income; Consumer Behavior; Building (Construction); Housing; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department; Institute for Supply Management; Labor Department (US)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



15 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 867 words

 BODY:
COUNT THE REASONS -- A caldron of investors' concerns -- from a slowing American economy to a faltering mortgage market and the tightening of historically easy credit -- has been bubbling up over the last year and appears to have set off the wave of selling that rocked world financial markets this week. [Page C1.] INSIDER TRADING SCHEME CITED -- Federal authorities accused 13 people of taking part in what they called one of the most far-reaching insider trading schemes on Wall Street in decades, involving investment banks and a web of hedge funds, day traders, lawyers and even a few supervisors. [C1.] DEFENDING AGAINST CHINA TRADE -- A paper mill in Maryland's Appalachians, the area's last remaining big factory, may become a line in the sand as the Commerce Department decides whether to impose duties on high-gloss paper -- the kind made at the mill -- that is imported from China. [A1.]PROTECTIONISM'S TOLL -- Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. 
said that the economy was slowing toward moderate and sustained growth, but warned it could be derailed if trade barriers were raised.[C7.] WAL-MART'S FOCUS -- ''Saving people money so they can live better lives.'' This new, and so far internal, definition of what Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, stands for will soon become a very public strategy, evident on the shelves of 4,000 stores and in advertisements seen across the country. [C1.] ROUGH QUARTER FOR DELL -- Dell's inability to capture sales in the booming notebook computer market was reflected in its fourth-quarter financial results. Dell said net income fell by a third, and revenue fell 5.1 percent. The last time revenue declined at Dell was in 2001, in the recession that followed the technology boom. [C3.] YOUTUBE'S PARTNERSHIPS -- Google has been frustrated in its efforts to reach comprehensive deals with major studios and networks to put their video on YouTube, but it is forming partnerships with hundreds of smaller media companies [C1.] JOB OPENING IN OMAHA -- Warren Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, said in his letter to shareholders that he is seeking a new candidate to become chief investment officer when he steps down. [C3.] CHEVY TRUCK EDGES F-SERIES -- General Motors surprised the auto industry by posting a sales increase in February, when its new Chevrolet Silverado pickup unseated the Ford F-series for the title of best-selling vehicle. [C3.] RETAILERS IN DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS -- Sears Holdings and Kohl's both reported higher quarterly earnings, but the struggling retailer Gap Inc. reported that its fourth-quarter profit fell 35 percent. ''We were not satisfied with our 2006 results and are taking action,'' said Gap's chairman, Robert J. Fisher, above, who is serving as the company's interim chief executive [C6.] EUROPEANS VS. MICROSOFT -- The European Commission has threatened Microsoft with millions of euros in new fines in a long-running antitrust dispute, saying the company was demanding unreasonable royalties from rivals seeking to link their software to the Windows operating system. [C3.] EARNINGS PLUNGE FOR TELEKOM -- Deutsche Telekom, the largest European telephone company, posted a fourth-quarter loss of nearly 900 million euros ($1.18 billion) as it lost customers in its home market, prompting the company to look abroad for growth. [C2.] TV SCREENS EVERYWHERE -- Digital TV networks are popping up on screens in groceries, office buildings, retail stores, on gas pumps, and, well, just about every place imaginable. Advertisers are trying to reach consumers where they cannot avoid ads. Advertising. [C6.] DOING GOOD, IN PINSTRIPES -- Hedge funds are known for secrecy and a ruthless focus on profitability. But there is a growing number of charities within the $1.3 trillion world of hedge funds. [C5.] RATS' IMPACT -- New York City officials shut three Pizza Hut restaurants operated by the same franchisee that owns the KFC/Taco Bell in Manhattan that became infamous when television cameras captured a swarm of rats inside. Yum Brands, the parent company of Taco Bell, KFC and Pizza Hut, said it was closing 10 other restaurants owned by the franchisee. [B1.] CHILDREN'S COLD REMEDIES -- Federal drug regulators have started a broad review of the safety of popular cough and cold remedies meant for children, according to a top official. [A1.]ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.Rural telephone carriers must connect calls made by voice-over-Internet Protocol customers, the Federal Communications Commission ruled in a decision that breaks down one of the last barriers to allowing VoIP to compete fully with traditional phone carriers. (DOW JONES)The American International Group posted fourth-quarter earnings nearly eight times higher than a year ago, with property and casualty insurance its star performer. (REUTERS)EchoStar Communications Corporation said that its fourth-quarter profit rose 15 percent as a result of an increase in subscribers. (AP)Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, one of the world's largest accounting firms, nominated James. H. Quigley to be chief executive, succeeding William G. Parrett, who plans to step down at the end of May. (NYT)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Dell shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); PAPER MILLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GAP INC (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (69%); GOOGLE INC (53%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (69%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (51%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (69%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (52%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (52%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



16 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: A Steadier Day for Stock Markets, but a Sense of Unease Lingers

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
What is bothering investors? No one thing in particular and yet everything.
 From a slowing American economy to a faltering mortgage market and the tightening of historically easy credit, a caldron of concerns has been bubbling up over the last year and appears to have set off the wave of selling that rocked world financial markets this week.
Though each of the fears has a distinct origin and quality, a common strain runs through them: that after four years of strong growth, low interest rates and relative prosperity, investors appear to have become too complacent about risks. 
 After some wide swings yesterday, stock markets appeared to have steadied from Tuesday's rout. Asian and European markets slumped yesterday, and the Dow Jones industrial average opened down 208 points. But the Dow recovered and traded in positive territory for brief periods before ending the day down 34.29 points, or 0.3 percent. The volatility was a reminder that concerns persist. 
 ''Risk needs to be reassessed,'' said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, an investment firm in New York. ''And that doesn't happen in three days, no matter how interesting those three days are.''
 Like many other market specialists who share his view, Mr. Stern believes that the outlook for the economy is generally positive, but he worries that investors are paying too much for assets like stocks and bonds in developing countries; securities backed by American mortgages; and junk-rated bonds. He acknowledges that his concerns are neither new nor unique.
 These fears have been simmering on the back burner for much of the last two years. Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman whose comments this week about the possibility of a recession have put him back in the spotlight, highlighted them in several speeches before he stepped down last year.
 In May, markets around the world sold off broadly on these same concerns as well as worries that the Fed would raise interest rates to levels that would restrict economic growth significantly. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.7 percent in a little over a month beginning in early May, before rallying in the second half of the year to gain 13.6 percent for the full year.
 Many market specialists note that the market historically goes through such periods of stress, and that the recent period of relative calm is extremely unusual. Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist for Charles Schwab, calculates that typically the market moves more than 2 percent -- up or down -- eight days each year. Before the fall on Tuesday, the market had not had a 2 percent move in more than three years.
 Tuesday was a ''a healthy reminder, especially to individual investors, that markets don't go straight up,'' Ms. Sonders said. 
 The VIX index, which measures expectations of future volatility of stock prices based on the prices of options, jumped to 18.31 on Tuesday from 11.35; it has since fallen back to 15.82. By comparison, the index averaged 19.13 during the last six years.
 It remains too early to draw any broad conclusions about the current market jitters, whether they will be of a similar short-lived variety as the swoon from last spring or whether they will take a broader and more sustained toll on the markets.
 ''This is a case of a lot of investors looking for a correction,'' said Todd Salamone, vice president for research at Schaffer's Investment Research. ''There was enough news out there to have that prophecy fulfilled.''
 Economic reports this week showed that orders for goods that last more than three years fell almost 8 percent in January and that the economy grew far more slowly in the fourth quarter than had been believed.
 Yesterday, some of those concerns were alleviated when a monthly survey by the Institute for Supply Management suggested that manufacturing activity picked up speed in February. The report's release at 10 a.m. bolstered stocks. The S.& P. 500 closed down 0.3 percent, or 3.65 points, at 1,403.17, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 11.94 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 2,404.21.
 Unlike the slump last year, the recent drop in stock prices has not been accompanied by any notable movements in the prices of commodities like crude oil or gold, both of which also tumbled in May. Oil futures were up about 1 percent for the week yesterday and the price of gold, which is typically seen as a safe haven during times of uncertainty, was down 2.9 percent.
 ''A bunch of pieces to the puzzle fit,'' said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management who is based in Chicago. ''But other pieces -- the gold, the oil -- don't really fit together. It causes us to question what's really going on.''
 Other measures of sentiment also suggest that the talk of reassessing risk has not resulted in meaningful changes in investor behavior.
 The difference, or spread, between the yields of United States Treasury securities and high-yield corporate bonds, for instance, has not increased significantly in the last few days, said Kingman Penniman, chairman and chief executive of KDP, a bond research firm. Wider spreads suggest that bond buyers are demanding more return for lending money to companies that may not be able to pay back the debt.
 Similarly, the spreads on developing country bonds have not widened from historic lows. 
 ''If I'd gone away for the week and looked at prices, I wouldn't have noticed anything,'' said Andrew Feltus, a vice president and bond portfolio manager at Pioneer Investments in Boston.
 Certainly, spreads on bonds backed by mortgages to people with weak, or subprime, credit have widened significantly in the last two months, and the cost of insuring the lowest-rated portions of those bonds has jumped this week. 
 In an indication that the market may be in for a tough road, Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest stand-alone mortgage company, disclosed in a securities filing that 22.6 percent of the subprime mortgages it services for other lenders were in default or foreclosure at the end of last year, up from 17.2 percent in 2005.
 Another strong signal has come through in the value of the Japanese yen, which has risen 2.9 percent, to 117.61 yen to the dollar, this week. 
 Some market specialists say the increase is a result of investors unwinding the ''carry trade,'' a trading strategy in which managers borrow money at low rates in Japan and invest it in other markets where returns are greater. 
 It is unclear how much money has been invested this way, but some suggest it could be in the billions of dollars, given that the difference between short-term interest rates in Japan and the rest of the world is so great.
 The rise in the yen would support the idea that investors are indeed becoming more risk-averse, by buying up yen to pay off their debts in Japan. But skeptics say it is just too early to declare the end of the carry trade, because the Bank of Japan's benchmark rate, even with a recent increase, is 0.5 percent while the Fed's short-term rate is 5.25 percent.
 ''I don't think two days is enough to tell us'' that the carry trade is being unwound in a big way, said Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman & Company. But ''that's absolutely something that should flash a yellow light.''
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 13-day cash management bills:(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.812Investment Rate: 5.281High Rate: 5.185Low Rate: 5.140Median Rate: 5.170Total applied for: $55,200,000Accepted: $23,000,140Noncompetitive: $125,000The 13-day cash management bills mature March 15, 2007.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shares lost some ground yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. (Photo by Daniel Barry/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
Traders at work at the Brazilian Mercantile and Futures Exchange yesterday, when most of the world's stock markets seemed to have calmed. (Photo by Mauricio Lima/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C7)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Housing; Mortgages; Credit; Interest Rates; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Stocks and Bonds; Currency; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Vikas Bajaj; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (71%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



17 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 16250 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: March 2 - March 8

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.TheaterApproximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.Previews and Openings'BE' In previews; opens on March 13. The Tel Aviv troupe Mayumana mixes dance, music and spectacle in this globe-trotting show aiming for the ''Stomp'' audience (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100.'BILL W. AND DR. BOB' In previews; opens on Monday. 
This history play portrays the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous -- and their wives (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.'BLINDNESS' In previews; opens on Tuesday. An adaptation of Jose Saramago's Nobel Prize-winning novel about a city hit by an epidemic of blindness (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.'BOYS JUST WANNA HAVE FUN' Opens today. From the creators of ''My Big Gay Italian Wedding'' comes this new romantic comedy about a New York City policeman who falls for a guy he meets when going undercover in a gay bar (2:10). Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200.'CURTAINS' In previews; opens on March 22. Kander and Ebb's satire of a murder mystery, which opened on the West Coast, is set in a theater during a 1959 out-of-town tryout. David Hyde Pierce and Debra Monk star (2:45). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.'DYING CITY' In previews; opens on Sunday. Lincoln Center presents a new play by Christopher Shinn (''Four'') about a therapist who receives a visit from her deceased husband's twin brother (1:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-7600.'JACK GOES BOATING' In previews; opens on March 18. The Oscar winner Philip Seymour Hoffman stars in this new Labyrinth Theater Company play about marital problems and dating panic (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.'KING HEDLEY II' In previews; opens on March 11. Signature Theater revives August Wilson's operatic drama, set in Reagan-era Pittsburgh, about a man who has just returned from prison (2:45). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.'KING LEAR' In previews; opens on Wednesday. He played Hamlet. He played Falstaff. It was only a matter of time before Kevin Kline took on this proud, misguided patriarch. James Lapine directs (3:00). The Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.'MY TRIP TO AL-QAEDA' In previews; opens on Monday. Laurence Wright explains the history of the terrorist organization in this monologue based on his book on the subject (1:30). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101.'OUR LEADING LADY' In previews; opens on March 20. A new comedy by Charles Busch (''The Tale of the Allergist's Wife''), about the actress who was to perform at Ford's Theater on the night Lincoln was shot (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.'THE PIRATE QUEEN' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on April 5. A new musical from the ''Les Miserables'' team, about a 16th-century swashbuckler, brings to life a slice of Irish history (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100.'PRELUDE TO A KISS' In previews; opens on Thursday. The Roundabout revives Craig Lucas's fantastical play about a young romance that takes a very bizarre turn (2:00). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300.'SOME MEN' Previews start today. Opens on March 26. Terrence McNally's episodic drama about gay life darts through history after kicking off with a marriage ceremony (2:00). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' In previews; opens on Tuesday. Kathleen Russo, Spalding Gray's widow, and Lucy Sexton assembled these monologues, letters and stories. Kathleen Chalfant and Frank Wood star (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100.'TALK RADIO' In previews; opens on March 11. Eric Bogosian's darkly funny portrait of a late-night talk show host returns for a Broadway revival starring Liev Schreiber. Robert Falls directs (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200.'TEA AND SYMPATHY' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on March 15. The Keen Company unearths this 1950s drama about a boy who is presumed to be gay (2:00). Clurman Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'WIDOWER'S HOUSES' Previews start on Monday. Opens on March 14. George Bernard Shaw's play about a slum landlord is reset in 1990s Harlem (1:40). Kirk Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on March 29. Vanessa Redgrave stars in this adaptation of Joan Didion's heartbreaking memoir. David Hare directs (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.Broadway'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' Lincoln Center Theater's brave, gorgeous, sprawling and ultimately exhilarating production of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about intellectuals errant in 19th-century Russia. A testament to the seductive powers of narrative theater, directed with hot and cool canniness by Jack O'Brien and featuring a starry cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton, Josh Hamilton and Ethan Hawke, among others) in a tasty assortment of roles. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) 'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) * 'TRANSLATIONS' The estimable Irish director Garry Hynes (a Tony winner for Martin McDonagh's ''Beauty Queen of Leenane'') has assembled an ensemble of an extraordinarily high caliber and consistency for the third major New York production of Brian Friel's 1980 play. Set in rural Ireland in 1833, as the local tongue is being supplanted by the language of the English occupying forces, the play explores the seriocomic truth that language can divide as easily as it unites, and can never hope to translate the rich music in our souls with the delicacy we yearn for. A top-flight Broadway revival (2:15). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway'ALL THAT I WILL EVER BE' In this false-feeling comedy-drama by Alan Ball, creator of ''Six Feet Under,'' a gay hustler undergoes an identity crisis when he finds himself falling for one of his clients. Slick but mostly stale in its analysis of a society afraid of emotional engagement (2:15). The New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore) 'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'THE FEVER' Wallace Shawn performs his provocative monologue about a guilt-riddled bourgeois everyman sweating his way through a moral crisis. The rich, often hypnotic writing draws us into his tortured mindscape, as he shifts between shame over his sense of entitlement and reasoned arguments that sacrifice is unnecessary and pointless. Meanwhile, in the third world, the violence and poverty continue unabated (1:30). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood) 'GUTENBERG! THE MUSICAL' A very funny if not terribly original satire of musical theater features what must be the worst backers' audition of all time. The excellent duo Jeremy Shamos and Christopher Fitzgerald make the pitch (2:05). The Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)* 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of vibrant, funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood) 'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Anita Gates)'THE LAST WORD ' Oren Safdie's comedy about cultural generation gaps amuses as it goes along but lands at a predictable nowhere. Daniel J. Travanti stars as a Viennese Jew and aspiring playwright who does battle with a young student angling to become his writing assistant and find his voice (1:30). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Ginia Bellafante)'THE MADRAS HOUSE' A century-old drama about ''the woman question,'' this rare revival of Harley Granville Barker's fascinating play is more contemporary than you might think (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Zinoman)'MARAT/SADE' The first New York production of Peter Weiss's classic 1963 play captures the rawness and shock of the original with a harrowing production. The inmates of this all-male asylum fling themselves against the chain-links of their enclosure; realistic-looking vomit and feces feature in one key scene; the audience is sprayed with water from the attendants' hoses and reminded that theater is not always a safe place. It's undeniably powerful; unfortunately, it remains a blunt instrument rather than a polished one, since the language is not mined as deeply as the emotion. Marat and Sade's philosophical debate, and the play's topicality, tend to be obscured by the sheer brute force of what's happening onstage (2:10). The Classical Theater of Harlem, Harlem School of the Arts Theater, 647 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, (212) 868-4444. (Anne Midgette) 'MARY ROSE' J. M. Barrie penned this distaff variation on themes from ''Peter Pan'' in 1920, and it has mostly lain on the shelf since. A young English girl (an exuberant Paige Howard) acquires the odd habit of disappearing and reappearing some time later, untouched by time's passing. Gentle and melancholy, handsomely mounted by Tina Landau, ''Mary Rose'' is nonetheless itself touched by the mark of time (1:45). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood) 'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' and 'THE JEW OF MALTA' F. Murray Abraham plays two Elizabethan villains in repertory for the Theater for a New Audience. Mr. Abraham's sinister but still moving Shylock is the dark heart of Darko Tresnjak's chilly, powerful staging of one of Shakespeare's unfunniest comedies. As Barabas in David Herskovits's goofy, postmodern ''Jew of Malta,'' he's the lively center of a carnival that doesn't do justice to Christopher Marlowe's harsh satire on Christian hypocrisy and venality (each 2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00).SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Neil Genzlinger)'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban) 'A VERY COMMON PROCEDURE' Courtney Baron's play suffers from a very common problem: For at least half of this one-act's running time, the characters onstage are talking to us, not one another. Paradoxically, this intimacy between audience and actors keeps the story -- an odd love affair between a woman grieving the death of her baby and the doctor involved in the baby's death -- at arm's length (1:20). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood) * 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) * 'WAKE UP MR. SLEEPY! YOUR UNCONSCIOUS MIND IS DEAD!' Richard Foreman's latest film-theater hybrid is a memorial service, of sorts, for the intuitive self, killed by a surface-worshiping world. It is also a dazzling exercise in reality shifting that is as invigorating as it is mournful (1:05). Ontological Theater at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley) Off Off Broadway'AT LEAST IT'S PINK' Bridget Everett and her big, bad attitude co-star in this mini-musical about sex and unsatisfying jobs in the city. Directed by Michael Patrick King (of ''Sex and the City,'' as it happens), who is also the co-author, and with songs written by Ms. Everett and Kenny Mellman, the piano-playing half of Kiki & Herb. Raucous and rude, it's a bit like a one-woman episode of ''Jerry Springer'' (1:20). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Isherwood) 'JACKIE WITH A Z' Delectably outrageous (1:30). Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. (Lawrence Van Gelder) 'ORESTEIA' David Johnston's take on Aeschylus includes some of this irreverent playwright's trademark off-kilter sensibility but not his familiar flights of fancy (1:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, north of White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman) 'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00).Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) Long-Running Shows'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance'ADRIFT IN MACAO' Christopher Durang wrote the book (cute) and lyrics (crude) for this fortune-cookie-size musical set in a Chinese port in the 1950s. Flimsy but fun, this spoof of old movies is lovingly acted by a swell cast, although an hour after it's over, you may be hungry for reruns of ''The Carol Burnett Show'' (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood) 'ART*******' Michael Domitrovich shows a good ear for dialogue in this play about five 20-somethings wallowing in the New York art scene and in their own vacuousness, but it's not quite enough to make them anything other than irritating (2:00). Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 254-1109; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 'THE JADED ASSASSIN' Imagine mediocre professional wrestling mixed with ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,'' and you get the idea (1:15). The Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Zinoman)'NELSON' Three arresting performances catch your attention in this creepy play by Sam Marks about a young man who is an office flunky by day but films gang videos at night. But having set a lot of intriguing things in motion, Mr. Marks is afraid to let them collide head-on (1:10). The Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes tomorrow. (Genzlinger) 'A SPANISH PLAY' The great Zoe Caldwell returns to the New York stage after an absence of a decade, in the fine company of Linda Emond, Denis O'Hare and Larry Pine. That's the good news. The bad? The play. Yasmina Reza's pseudo-philosophical and metatheatrical trifle is utterly forgettable (1:50). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood) MoviesRatings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.'THE ABANDONED' (R, 95 minutes) The title of this dull, hysterical horror movie seems to refer to its release strategy. The greatest mystery is why it showed up in theaters at all, rather than going straight to DVD. (A. O. Scott) 'AMAZING GRACE' (PG, 120 minutes) Michael Apted's prettified take on the life and times of the 18th-century reformer William Wilberforce carries a strong whiff of piety but is generally pleasing and often moving, and features fine performances from newcomers and veterans alike. (Manohla Dargis)'THE ASTRONAUT FARMER' (PG, 102 minutes) This sentimental fable about a Texas rancher who follows his dreams and builds a rocket ship in his barn is made bearable -- just -- by Billy Bob Thornton's underplayed performance in the lead role, and also by the wide-eyed visual wonderment of the director, Michael Polish, who is the co-writer of the picture with his twin brother, Mark. (Scott) 'BABEL' (R, 143 minutes, in English, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, Arabic and sign language) This hugely ambitious movie tells four loosely linked stories set on three continents. The themes, to the extent they are decipherable, include loss, fate and the terrible consequences of miscommunication. Written by Guillermo Arriaga and directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, the movie is an intellectual muddle but a visceral tour de force, and the power of the filmmaking almost overcomes the fuzziness of the ideas. Almost. (Scott) * 'BAMAKO' (No rating, 118 minutes, in French and Bambara) Abdelrahmane Sissako's new film is an indictment of the West's complicity in Africa's misery, staged as a public trial of the World Bank and its affiliates. The film's passionate didacticism is both enriched and subverted by Mr. Sissako's deft, subtle attention to the details of daily life in the capital of Mali, where the movie takes place. (Scott)'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn misery into entertainment. (Dargis) 'BREACH' (PG-13, 110 minutes) In his fine, no-nonsense account of the capture of the F.B.I. agent turned mole Robert Philip Hanssen, the director Billy Ray manages to excite and unnerve despite our knowing the ending. Chris Cooper and Ryan Phillippe star. (Dargis)* 'BRIDGE TO TERABITHIA' (PG, 95 minutes) Grounded more in reality than in fantasy, this adaptation of Katherine Paterson's novel offers an affecting story of a transformative friendship between two gifted children. Beautifully capturing a time when a bully in school can loom as large as a troll in a nightmare, the director, Gabor Csupo, keeps the fantasy in the background to find magic in the everyday. (Jeannette Catsoulis) * 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Winner of the Oscar for best picture, Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis) 'DREAMGIRLS' (PG-13, 131 minutes) The Broadway musical arrives on the screen, capably directed by Bill Condon, ardently acted and sung by Jamie Foxx, Eddie Murphy, Beyonce Knowles and (especially) Jennifer Hudson, who won a best-supporting-actress Oscar for her performance, but undone by mediocre and anachronistic songs. (Scott)'GHOST RIDER' (PG-13, 114 minutes) After a long string of financial flops, Nicolas Cage returns to play Johnny Blaze, a stunt motorcycle rider whose soul belongs to the Devil. Despite the promise of the first 30 minutes -- when Johnny is played by the charming young actor Matt Long -- a witless script and a central character who's more funny than frightening suggest that the filmmakers' franchise hopes may be dashed. (Catsoulis) 'HANNIBAL RISING' (R, 121 minutes) This primer on Hannibal Lecter reduces a mythic villain to a callow, dysfunctional chef. Orphaned in World War II, our psychopathic hero hunts down his family's killers and snacks on their remains. But burrowing into the id of pop culture's most repulsive gourmet demands a sanguinary glee that the director, Peter Webber, may not possess; for all the movie's spurting gore, there's no rush of blood to the head. (Catsoulis) 'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker, in an Oscar-winning performance, plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott) * 'Little Miss Sunshine' (R, 101 minutes) A bittersweet comedy of dysfunction that takes place at the terminus of the American dream. The excellent cast includes Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano and that national treasure, Alan Arkin, who won an Oscar for best supporting actor. (Dargis)* 'THE LIVES OF OTHERS' (R, 137 minutes, in German) Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's debut feature, winner of the Academy Award for best foreign-language film, takes place in East Berlin in 1984, and it is a smart, moving inquiry into the moral predicament facing good people in a bad system. Ulrich Muhe's performance as a conscience-stricken Stasi officer is a tightly wound tour de force, and Sebastian Koch and Martina Gedeck are both superb as a playwright and his actress lover who are drawn into the cruel, absurd clutches of the Communist secret police. (Scott) 'MUSIC AND LYRICS' (PG-13, 96 minutes) Drew Barrymore and Hugh Grant phone in passable impersonations of themselves in this competent romantic comedy, which is somewhat enlivened by parodies of bad pop songs from both the 1980s and the present. (Scott) 'NOTES ON A SCANDAL' (R, 92 minutes) Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett play a misogynistic game of cat and mouse from which no one emerges unscathed, including the audience. Adapted by Patrick Marber from a novel by Zoe Heller and directed by Richard Eyre. (Dargis)'THE NUMBER 23' (R, 95 minutes) An accidental comedy starring a deadly serious Jim Carrey that owes something to David Fincher, a little something else to Robert Anton Wilson and next to nothing, at least intentionally, to the gods of laughter, be they Gelus (Greek) or Jerry Lewis (American). (Dargis)* 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil-War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott) 'THE PURSUIT OF HAPPYNESS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) How you respond to this fairy tale in realist drag may depend on whether you find Will Smith's performances so overwhelmingly winning that you buy the idea that poverty is a function of bad luck and bad choices, and success the result of heroic toil and dreams. (Dargis) * 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren (who won an Oscar) in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis) 'RENO 911!: MIAMI' (R, 81 minutes) The title more or less says all you need to know about the story, the action and the point. (Dargis)'STARTER FOR TEN' (PG-13, 96 minutes) This amiable, nostalgic British comedy tackles a lofty subject -- the allure of knowledge --with down-to-earth charm, following a working-class kid (James McAvoy) during his first year at Bristol University and an appearance on the TV quiz show ''University Challenge.'' But beneath the formulaic embarrassments and fumbled learning curve lurks a more somber theme: the inevitable rupture between those who pursue an education and those left behind. (Catsoulis) 'VENUS' (R, 91 minutes) A modest, diverting, touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest -- avuncular and also erotic -- of an aging actor, played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole. (Scott) * 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott) 'THE WAYWARD CLOUD' (No rating, 112 minutes, in Mandarin) The latest from the Taiwanese filmmaker Tsai Ming-Liang is a musical, with very little dialogue and a good deal of explicit sex. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsai's energetic provocation, a notable contrast to his usual rigorous, dryly kinky style, seems more like a sign of artistic frustration than like an audacious new direction. (Scott) Film Series FRENCH SEVENTIES: CINEMA AFTER MAY '68 (Tuesday) The protests of May 1968 left an indelible mark on French society and French cinema, a link that will be explored in a series of screenings organized by Jean-Michel Frodon, the editor in chief of Les Cahiers du Cinema. The program begins on Tuesday with ''Le Diable Probablement,'' Robert Bresson's dark 1977 look at the lives of Parisian students fatally disenchanted with the adult world. The 7 p.m. screening, which has a special admission price of $12, will be followed by a question-and-answer session with Mr. Frodon and the director Benoit Jacquot (whose ''Assassin Musicien'' will be shown on March 13). French Institute/Alliance Francaise, Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100, fiaf.org; $9. (Dave Kehr) ABBAS KIAROSTAMI: 'IMAGE MAKER' (Today through Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art asserts that this 33-film retrospective of the work of the Iranian filmmaker Abbas Kiarostami is the most complete examination of his career yet mounted in the United States. Mr. Kiarostami's minimalist aesthetics and deeply felt humanism make for a rare and profound combination, as demonstrated in masterworks like ''Close-Up'' (1990) (screening on Monday) and ''Through the Olive Trees'' (1994) (Wednesday). This weekend's programs concentrate on the first part of Mr. Kiarostami's career, when he was making short educational films for children under the auspices of the Institute for the Intellectual Development of Children and Young Adults in Iran, and includes his first feature-length film, the 1974 ''The Traveler'' (tonight). Meanwhile, Mr. Kiarostami's 2006 video installation ''Five'' will play continuously in MoMA's Yoshiko and Akio Morita Gallery, and an exhibition of his photographs will continue at MoMA's Queens ally, P.S. 1. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr) 'OUT 1' (Tomorrow and Sunday) When the Museum of the Moving Image presented all 12 and a half hours of Jacques Rivette's famously hard-to-see French film, ''Out 1,'' last fall, it proved to be one of the movie events of the year, and even won the museum a special citation from the National Society of Film Critics. This weekend, the museum is offering an encore presentation of this fascinating, unwieldy film, which revolves around the on- and offstage lives of avant-garde actors in Paris. The first four episodes will be shown tomorrow, starting at 2 p.m., with a dinner break at 5:30 (box dinner available by advance order); the final four at 2 p.m. on Sunday. Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $32 for both days. (Kehr) PopFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.BATTLEFIELD BAND (Monday) Old-fashioned bagpipes and whistles and up-to-date synthesizers drive the Battlefield Band, which has been having its way with traditional and traditionalist songs since it was founded three decades ago in Scotland. At 7:30 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Jon Pareles)THE BIRD AND THE BEE (Tonight) The Bird and the Bee, a well-dressed duo from Los Angeles, toys with two fashionable ideas: retro French pop glittering with electronics, and ''Sex and the City''-style sexual conundrums. The singer Inara George mulls the ways of noncommittal boyfriends and promises in a catwalk soprano -- to herself or a man, it's never clear -- ''I would be so winning, so absolutely winning.'' With Foreign Islands. At 9:30, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Ben Sisario)* SOLOMON BURKE (Sunday) Solomon Burke is a larger-than-life, gospel-rooted 1960s soul man whose vocal jabs taught Mick Jagger, among others, a few things about singing. He is still a vocal powerhouse, full of dramatic whims, who earns the right to perform from a throne. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $35 in advance, $37 at the door. (Pareles)MARC COHN (Thursday) His 1991 hit ''Walking in Memphis'' sums up Marc Cohn's style: smoothly rolling chords; a supple, soul-inflected voice; and a kindly outlook. He has been known to sing not only his songs but also his stage patter. At 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7000, carnegiehall.org; sold out. (Pareles)* JUDY COLLINS (Tonight) What Ms. Collins brings to a song , whether she wrote it or not, is perspective. You have the sense of a woman standing alone in the night air, gazing at a star and directing a beam of psychic energy into the cosmos. Or maybe she is the receiver of this cool, steady light; it cuts both ways. At 8:45, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $100 cover at tables, $65 at the bar. (Stephen Holden)ROB DICKINSON (Tonight) In the '90s Mr. Dickinson led the Catherine Wheel, a British band that created a muscular, dramatic sweep with fogs of guitar noise. He has since refashioned himself as a cynical balladeer in the Warren Zevon mode, the kind who may or may not be sarcastic when saying that the secret to life is merely ''to smile and hang out with intelligent people.'' At 7:30, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $15. (Sisario)GOMEZ, BEN KWELLER (Thursday) Gomez emerged in the heyday of '90s Britpop with an against-the-grain obsession with tight, sharp blues-rock. On its latest album, ''How We Operate'' (ATO), the band has veered into folkier realms, but still plays with unusual precision and focus. Ben Kweller survived his time as a teenage rock prodigy and has carved out a niche as an ambitious singer-songwriter, playing all the instruments on his latest, self-titled album. At 7:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $28 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sisario)NANCI GRIFFITH (Tuesday and Wednesday) A Texas songwriter with an affinity for acoustic guitars, little-girl vocals and life's small but resonant epiphanies, Ms. Griffith stepped way out of character on her newest album, ''Ruby's Torch'' (Rounder), immersing herself in the dramatic sweep of ''In the Wee Small Hours of the Morning'' and torch songs by Jimmy Webb and Tom Waits. For her Blue Note debut, the club promises that she will be going the distance with the new role, appearing in a red velvet dress and singing into ''an old-school hanging mic.'' At 8 and 10:30 p.m., 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar; $5 minimum. (Sisario)* GRIZZLY BEAR (Tuesday and Wednesday) The acoustic guitars, strings, brushed percussion and library voices say cozy folk, but the enormous ambition of this Brooklyn band pushes its dreamlike, bewitching songs past psychedelia and prog and into uncharted realms. With Beach House and the Papercuts. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)IZZYS (Tomorrow) With a repertory of lean, uncomplicated blues-boogies, this New York band worships at the twin retro-rock altars of the Rolling Stones and the Stooges (with a little Gram Parsons country thrown in as well). At 11 p.m., Lakeside Lounge, 162 Avenue B, between 10th and 11th Streets, East Village, (212) 529-8463, lakesidelounge.com; free. (Sisario)ESSIE JAIN (Tuesday) A British singer and songwriter who lives in New York, Ms. Jain builds stark miniatures out of a few light strums of guitar and her haunting alto. On her captivating new album, ''We Made This Ourselves'' (Ba Da Bing), her voice is multitracked in precise harmonies that can be warm or ghostly. With Pepi Ginsberg and the Lost Americans. At 8 p.m., Tap Bar at the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $7. (Sisario)* CHARLIE LOUVIN, LAURA CANTRELL (Thursday) Four years ago the Nashville establishment offered its obeisance to the Louvin Brothers, the close-harmony country-gospel duo from Arkansas whose influence was greater than their record sales: a tribute album, ''Livin', Lovin', Losin','' with Vince Gill, Dolly Parton, Emmylou Harris, Johnny Cash and others, which won a Grammy. Now it's the alterna-crowd's turn. The new, self-titled album by Charlie Louvin (his brother and partner, Ira, died in 1965), fragile of voice but not of spirit at age 79, features Elvis Costello and members of Wilco, Bright Eyes, Lambchop and Clem Snide in spare, affectionate duets. Laura Cantrell, the sweetheart of the alt-country rodeo, opens the show. At 8 p.m., Gramercy Theater, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; $16.50 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sisario) MOONLIGHTERS (Monday) Few would expect members of Helmet and the Pain Teens to play ukulele-strumming, steel-guitar-sliding, sweetly harmonized, optimistic Hawaiian-style songs. But the Moonlighters do just that, writing anachronistic ballads and swing-style tunes that Bliss Blood sings without a hint of campiness. At 10 p.m., Rodeo Bar, 375 Third Avenue, at 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-6500, rodeobar.com; free. (Pareles)NICKELBACK (Monday) This quartet of Marlboro men from the tiny Canadian prairie town of Hanna, Alberta, scored the fourth-best-selling album of 2006 with ''All the Right Reasons'' (Roadrunner), whose painfully ordinary commercial rock has one big (and super-popular) standout: ''Photograph,'' a post-grunge ballad the way Ray Davies would write one, tangy and reflective. With Three Days Grace and Breaking Benjamin. At 7 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $41.50 and $51.50. (Sisario)* ELVIS PERKINS (Sunday) Having established himself on the singer-songwriter circuit with a discursive acoustic style derived from groups like Clem Snide, Mr. Perkins has finally released his bittersweet and beautiful debut album, ''Ash Wednesday'' (XL). He began it in 2002, a decade after his father, the actor Anthony Perkins, died of AIDS, and a year after his mother, the fashion photographer Berry Berenson Perkins, died in one of the planes that was crashed into the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. With Patrick Watson. At 7:30 p.m., Luna Lounge, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, lunalounge.com; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Sisario)RADIO 4, TEDDYBEARS (Tonight) Radio 4 was among the first local bands to mine the frantic dance-punk of early-'80s groups like the Gang of Four and Public Image Ltd., which it does studiously but not very imaginatively. The Teddybears, from Sweden, have one of the year's bigger head-scratchers with ''Punkrocker,'' a paranoid jaunt with new-wave synthesizers and a deadpan vocal by Iggy Pop that is being used in a Cadillac ad -- makes perfect sense, right? At 11:30, Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $10. (Sisario)IKE REILLY ASSASSINATION (Tonight) An eloquent wiseguy whose songs evoke Bob Dylan and Paul Westerberg, Mr. Reilly, a former bellhop and gravedigger from Chicago, has the kind of high-energy, hook-heavy folk-rock sound that turns every head in a bar, while his nasal vocals are unsparingly sardonic: ''The friends that you rely on are the train tracks that you lie on.'' At midnight, Mo Pitkin's, 34 Avenue A, near Third Street, East Village, (212) 777-5660, mopitkins.com; $15. (Sisario)SCISSOR SISTERS (Tomorrow) You would be forgiven if you didn't know this was one of the most popular New York City bands in the world: despite Top 10 success in Britain with its almost parodically falsetto-heavy disco-soul, the Scissor Sisters have struggled for attention at home. Its main songwriters, the singer Jake Shears and the bassist Babbydaddy, can crank out some very entertaining dance-floor anthems, but as its latest album, ''Ta-Dah'' (Universal), makes clear, this sound can go on forever without much development, and the Bee Gees and George Michael wrote better songs. At 8 p.m., the Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $41. (Sisario)STEEL PULSE (Tuesday) The close harmonies and steadfast reggae beats of Steel Pulse have carried righteous sentiments about topics including revolution, dancing, Rastafarianism and racist taxi drivers. With Lionize. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $28 in advance, $30 at the door. (Pareles)STELLASTARR (Wednesday) The first booking in the newly restored Gramercy Theater is Stellastarr, a Brooklyn band made up of former Pratt Institute students greatly and transparently influenced by the Cure, Joy Division and the Pixies. At 8 p.m., 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; sold out. (Sisario) * THERMALS (Sunday and Monday) A lo-fi but high-energy and high-volume indie band from Portland, Ore., the Thermals have the rare distinction -- maybe soon to be less rare in this post-''Inconvenient Truth'' era -- of refusing $50,000 to license a song for a Hummer commercial. (''What would you be making an ad for,'' the singer Hutch Harris told the Web site Pitchfork, ''a new tank that people can drive down the street?'') With the Big Sleep. Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. Monday at 8 p.m., Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Sisario)WALKMEN (Thursday) The Walkmen play exquisitely articulated songs of exhaustion and disaffection, with Hamilton Leithauser's weary whine surrounded by an echoey wash of guitar and keyboards. Last fall they also revealed a surprising prankster side with a song-by-song cover of ''Pussy Cats,'' the bizarre, boozy 1974 album by Harry Nilsson that was a product of his ''lost weekend'' period with John Lennon. With the Broken West and Ferrababy Lionheart. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)BOB WEIR AND RATDOG (Thursday) Mr. Weir, the rhythm guitarist in the Grateful Dead and the kind of musician who lives to be on the road, begins a three-night stand at the Beacon Theater with his six-piece band Ratdog, playing rock standards and Dead favorites. At 7:30 p.m., 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171; $39.50 and $49.50. (Sisario)WORLD MUSIC INSTITUTE (Tonight and tomorrow night) This weekend features a tour through the British Isles. Tonight the fiddler Martin Hayes and the guitarist Dennis Cahill rhapsodize on traditional Irish tunes, and tomorrow is Waterson-Carthy, led by some of the royalty of English folk, the singer Norma Waterson and her husband Martin Carthy, a widely influential guitarist. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $27 tonight, $32 tomorrow night. (Sisario)JazzFull reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.J. D. ALLEN TRIO (Thursday) An assertive and harmonically adventurous tenor saxophonist, J. D. Allen enjoys strong support from Gregg August on bass and Rudy Royston on drums. At 9 p.m., Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, between Havemeyer and Marcy Streets, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-0069, liveatrose.com; suggested donation, $5. (Nate Chinen) BALLIN' THE JACK (Thursday) This midsize ensemble, led by the clarinetist and saxophonist Matt Darriau, customarily spikes a swing-era repertory with madcap irreverence. That's especially true on this engagement, which features music from Marx Brothers film soundtracks, complete with Grouchoesque vocals by the alto saxophonist Roy Nathanson. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)MICHAEL BISIO (Sunday) The physicality of Mr. Bisio's bass playing puts him in touch with numerous predecessors in the avant-garde, but his expressive touch is distinctive; he plays first with a quartet featuring the saxophonists Avram Fefer and Stephen Gauci, and then in a duo with another bassist, William Parker. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10 per set. (Chinen) MICHAEL BLAKE QUARTET (Tonight) Mr. Blake, a resourceful tenor and soprano saxophonist, leads a groove-minded band with Gary Versace on electric piano, Tim Luntzel on electric bass and Jeff Ballard on drums. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)BROOKLYN REPERTORY ENSEMBLE (Tonight) Led by the drummer Wade Barnes, this large ensemble includes strong improvisers like James Zollar on trumpet and Vincent Chancey on French horn. But as the group demonstrates on a new album, ''Pragmatic Optimism'' (360 Degrees), its strength lies in its overall sound. At 8, Sugar Hill Supper Club, 609-615 Dekalb Avenue, at Nostrand Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, (718) 797-1727; $20. (Chinen)MAURICE BROWN (Tonight and Monday) The trumpeter Maurice Brown plays an extroverted strain of modern jazz that borrows from soul as well as bop. Tonight at 12:30, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $8, with a $5 minimum. Monday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $15. (Chinen)BRUBECK BROTHERS (Thursday) Chris Brubeck, a bassist and trombonist, and Dan Brubeck, a drummer, jointly lead this group, a quartet; as on a recent album, ''Intuition'' (Koch), it also includes Taylor Eigsti on piano and Mike DeMicco on guitar. (Through March 9.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)GEORGE COLLIGAN (Tuesday) Mr. Colligan has built his sideman career on a rhythmically intrepid piano style; he plays here with Steve Wilson on alto and soprano saxophones, Vicente Archer on bass and E. J. Strickland on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)* MARILYN CRISPELL TRIO (Tonight through Sunday night) Marilyn Crispell, a pianist equally celebrated for aggressive atonality and delicate lyricism, regroups with the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Paul Motian, the same team as on her exquisite album ''Storyteller'' (ECM). At 9 and 11, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)DAPP THEORY (Tomorrow) The keyboardist Andy Milne fashions a contemporary fusion explicitly indebted to hip-hop, with help from John Moon on vocals, Loren Stillman on saxophones, Chris Tordini on bass and Sean Rickman on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)DENA DeROSE TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) A crisp pianist and an effortless singer, Dena DeRose leads a longtime working trio with Martin Wind on bass and Matt Wilson on drums. At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen) DJANGO A GOGO FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) The guitarist Stephane Wrembel oversees a scrappy tribute to his hero, Django Reinhardt, by gathering present-day adherents of Gypsy jazz, including the French guitarists Emmanuel Kassimo and Laurent Hestin. Tonight at 8:30, the Cornerstone, 1502 Cortelyou Road, Brooklyn, (718) 282-9600; $20. Tomorrow at 7 and 9:30 p.m., Sunday from 7 p.m. to midnight, Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $20 per set. For more information: stephanewrembel.com. (Chinen)ANNE DRUMMOND (Thursday) Ms. Drummond is a flutist with a taste for Brazilian rhythm, as she confirmed last year on an album by the bassist Nilson Matta. She leads a band consisting of Mr. Matta, the drummer Duduka Da Fonseca and the pianist Klaus Muller. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $12; $10 for members. (Chinen)RAY DRUMMOND'S EXCURSION (Tonight and tomorrow night) The unflappable bassist Ray Drummond leads one of his signature ensembles with Craig Handy on tenor saxophone, Stephen Scott on piano and Billy Hart on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)JOE FIEDLER TRIO/RADIO I-CHING (Wednesday) The trombonist Joe Fiedler previews material from an adventurous new album, with John Hebert on bass and Satoshi Takeishi on drums; a preceding set will feature Radio I-Ching, which consists of the drummer Dee Pop, the guitarist Don Fiorino and the multireedist Andy Haas. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)JIM HALL AND PETER BERNSTEIN (Wednesday) The venerable Jim Hall engages in duologue with a former student and fellow guitarist, the accomplished Peter Bernstein. At 8 p.m., New School for Jazz and Contemporary Music, 55 West 13th Street, fifth floor, Greenwich Village, (212) 229-5896, Ext. 4591, jazz.newschool.edu; $10; free for students. (Chinen)ROY HARGROVE BIG BAND (Tuesday) The trumpeter Roy Hargrove has been a paragon of small-group hard bop since the early 1990s. But he has also led a big band, on and off, for roughly the same span of time; whenever he rekindles the format, there are powerful results. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $25. (Chinen)* MICHEL LEGRAND (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Legrand, the celebrated French composer and pianist, has more than a casual connection to jazz, having worked with Miles Davis and Sarah Vaughan. To celebrate his 75th birthday, he leads a sterling trio with the bassist Ron Carter and the drummer Lewis Nash. (Through March 11.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $40 and $65, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)JED LEVY (Wednesday) Mr. Levy, a saxophonist working convincingly in the jazz mainstream, enlists a formidable rhythm section: Bill Mays on piano, Ugonna Okegwo on bass and Billy Drummond on drums. At 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover. (Chinen)JUNIOR MANCE (Tonight and tomorrow night) A veteran pianist with tendencies toward both bebop and blues, Mr. Mance leads a trio with the drummer Jackie Williams and the bassist Aaron James. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)* MYRA MELFORD (Tomorrow) Last year the pianist Myra Melford released a sharp and thoughtful album, ''The Image of Your Body'' (Cryptogramophone), featuring a powerfully elastic ensemble she calls Be Bread: Cuong Vu on trumpet, Brandon Ross on guitar, Stomu Takeishi on bass and Elliot Humberto Kavee on drums. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $15 in advance, $20 at the door, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)VALERY PONOMAREV (Sunday) Mr. Ponomarev is an incisive Russian-born hard-bop trumpeter perhaps best known for his four-year stint with Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers. He performs as part of a series called Russian Sundays, complete with a tea and vodka tasting. At 4 p.m., Weill Art Gallery at the 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $30. (Chinen)REV-ELATION (Tonight through Sunday night) Milt Jackson, who died in 1999, was one of the top two or three vibraphonists in the history of jazz. Here, as on the album ''Rev-Elation'' (Sharp Nine), he receives a boppish tribute from the mallet virtuoso Joe Locke, the pianist Mike LeDonne, the bassist Bob Cranshaw and the drummer Mickey Roker. At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)PETE ROBBINS AND CENTRIC (Tonight) Mr. Robbins, an alto saxophonist and clarinetist with a cool tone and an off-kilter sensibility, leads an electro-acoustic ensemble consisting of Jesse Neuman on trumpet, Mike Gamble on guitar, Eliot Cardinaux on keyboards, Eivind Opsvik on bass and Tyshawn Sorey on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested donation, $5. (Chinen)* MATANA ROBERTS'S COIN COIN (Tuesday) The alto saxophonist Matana Roberts weaves history, folklore and genealogy into ''Coin Coin,'' an ambitious and audacious performance piece. She also enlists imaginative colleagues like the guitarist Mary Halvorson, the violist and bassist Jessica Pavone, the cellist Daniel Levin, the bassist Keith Witty and the drummer Tyshawn Sorey. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)JENNIFER SANON AND JONATHAN BATISTE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Sanon is about to make waves as the poised young singer on Wynton Marsalis's new album; Mr. Batiste has already been turning heads as an up-and-coming pianist with an ebullient style. At 9 and 10:30, the River Room, Riverbank State Park, Riverside Drive at 145th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-1500, theriverroomofharlem.com; cover, $5. (Chinen)MATTHEW SHIPP TRIO (Tomorrow) Matthew Shipp's pianism is often prickly but rarely off-putting, because even his free improvisations tend to follow a faintly linear path. He has strongly intuitive partners here in Joe Morris, on bass, and Whit Dickey, on drums. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)EDWARD SIMON TRIO (Tonight through Sunday night) On his fine recent album, ''Unicity'' (Cam Jazz), the pianist Edward Simon explores a sensitive but adventurous trio dynamic with the bassist John Patitucci and the drummer Brian Blade, who both join him here. At 8:30 and 10:30, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) CAROL SLOANE (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Sloane, a singer, first appeared at the Village Vanguard in the early 1960s, opening for Oscar Peterson. These days she headlines, bringing a trio and a lifetime of experience with her. (Through March 11.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)STEVE SWELL'S NATION OF WE (Tuesday) As the name implies, this is an ensemble of many voices, wedded to an ideal of collectivity. In addition to the trombonist Steve Swell, its ranks include the violinist Jason Hwang, the trumpeter Lewis Barnes and the drummer Jackson Krall. At 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)CEDAR WALTON TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow) The pianist Cedar Walton pursues an articulate species of hard bop, never more effectively than in a trio setting. At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)* KENNY WERNER QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) A probing pianist with superior harmonic and rhythmic command, Mr. Werner celebrates the release of a new electro-acoustic album, ''Lawn Chair Society'' (Blue Note), with a cast of younger heavies: the trumpeter Nicholas Payton, the saxophonist Chris Potter, the bassist Hans Glawischnig and the drummer Brian Blade. (Through March 11.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)ClassicalFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.
 Opera* 'EUGENE ONEGIN' (Tomorrow) The final performance this season of the Metropolitan Opera's affecting revival of its 1997 production of Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin'' comes tomorrow night. In his first Met performances of the title role, the charismatic Russian baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky is riveting, singing with earthy richness and fully conveying this worldly, entitled and dashing young man's aloofness, until the final tragic scene. The surprises come from the soprano Renee Fleming, in her first Russian role at the Met, who gives a vocally exquisite and vulnerable portrayal of Tatiana, and the tenor Ramon Vargas, a Bel Canto specialist, who makes an ardent and endearing Lenski, Onegin's well-meaning but fatally impulsive friend. You will seldom see better acting in opera than from this excellent cast. Taking over for Valery Gergiev, Paul Nadler conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)'LA FORZA DEL DESTINO' (Tomorrow and Sunday) Some people, faced with a theater that seats 100 people, would stage chamber opera. But the tiny Amato Opera endears precisely because it refuses to recognize realistic limits, preferring to lose itself in a haze of opera idolatry. This weekend, therefore, it brings back its staging of one of Verdi's largest works, for some of Verdi's largest singers; probably a few people in the company's perennially rotating casts will even do the spirit of the music justice. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 2:30 p.m., 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200, amato.org; $35; $28 for students and 65+. (Anne Midgette)* 'DIE MEISTERSINGER VON NURNBERG' (Monday) Otto Schenk's stylistically realistic and captivating 1993 production of Wagner's humanely comic masterpiece is back in the repertory. That this score is a James Levine specialty is just one reason to expect the best from this revival. The veteran bass James Morris, acclaimed for his affecting portrayal of the wise and conflicted shoemaker Hans Sachs, is back, along with the powerhouse tenor Johan Botha as the young knight Walther, a role he has sung splendidly at the house. Branching out, the fine soprano Hei-Kyung Hong sings Eva for the first time at the Met. At 6 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Tommasini) 'THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE' (Tomorrow, Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) The very model of the major Gilbert and Sullivan light opera rolls into the New York State Theater to open City Opera's spring season, with two Tony Award winners, Marc Kudisch and Mark Jacoby, in a cast led by Matt Morgan (Frederic), Sarah Jane McMahon (Mabel) and the wonderful Myrna Paris (Ruth). Gerald Steichen conducts. Tomorrow at 1:30 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 1:30 p.m. (preview performances); Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycopera.com; $16 and $37 remaining tomorrow and Sunday; $45 to $125 for Wednesday and Thursday. (Midgette) 'SIMON BOCCANEGRA' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Verdi's dark operatic tale of love and politics continues at the Metropolitan Opera with an excellent cast that includes Angela Gheorghiu, Thomas Hampson, Ferruccio Furlanetto and Marcello Giordani. (Angela Marambio replaces Ms. Gheorghiu on Tuesday as Amelia.) Go, too, for a splendid conductor, Fabio Luisi. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out tomorrow; $15 to $175 on Tuesday. (Bernard Holland) 'LA TRAVIATA' (Wednesday) For its revival of Verdi's ''Traviata,'' in Franco Zeffirelli's extravagant 1998 production, the Met is rotating casts, with three sopranos sharing the role of Violetta this season. The earthy Bulgarian soprano Krassimira Stoyanova, who made her Met debut in 2001 and who was recently heard at the house as Nedda in ''Pagliacci,'' sings Violetta, the role of her debut. The compelling German tenor Jonas Kaufmann sings Alfredo, Violetta's impulsive lover, with the veteran American baritone Dwayne Croft as Alfredo's tragically interfering father, Germont. Marco Armiliato conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $65 to $175. (Tommasini)'DIE ZAUBERFLOTE' (Tonight and Thursday) The revival of Julie Taymor's production of Mozart's ''Zauberflote'' continues at the Met, complete with the magical puppets and stage effects that made it an audience hit when it opened in 2004. James Levine conducts a cast that includes Lisa Milne as Pamina, Cornelia Gotz as the Queen of the Night, Michael Schade as Tamino, Rodion Pogossov as Papageno, Eike Wilm Schulte as the Speaker and Vitalij Kowaljow as Sarastro. (Morris Robinson replaces Mr. Kowaljow on Thursday.) At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $205 tickets remaining tonight; $175 on Thursday. (Vivien Schweitzer) Classical MusicBARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) Tonight and tomorrow on the barge there will be music for clarinet, violin and piano by Mozart, Saint-Saens, Milhaud, Stravinsky and Igor Raykhelson. Julian Milkis is on clarinet, Mark Peskanov on violin and Vladislav Kovalsky on piano. On Sunday the lineup includes Mendelssohn's Piano Trio in D minor and Schubert's Piano Trio in B flat. On Thursday the pianist Gerald Robbins performs works by Mozart, Schumann, Debussy, Rachmaninoff and Prokofiev. Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday nights at 8, Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ tonight and tomorrow. (Schweitzer) CHIARA STRING QUARTET (Thursday) Young chamber groups and soloists are increasingly taking their work to clubs that more typically present pop and jazz, in the hope of finding new listeners. For its concert at the Caffe Vivaldi, this superb quartet promises a varied program with music by Beethoven, Andean folk songs and transcriptions of Prince songs. At 7:30 p.m., Caffe Vivaldi, 32 Jones Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 691-7538, caffevivaldi.com; no cover. (Allan Kozinn)GILBERT AND SULIVAN CELEBRATION (Thursday) Glimmerglass Opera presents a concert of familiar and lesser-known works of Gilbert and Sullivan, among them ''Utopia Limited'' and ''The Grand Duke.'' Performers including the soprano Brenda Rae, the mezzo-soprano Sandra Piques Eddy, the tenor Vale Rideout, the baritone Matthew Worth and the bass-baritone Daniel Gross, will also read from letters, diaries and reviews from Gilbert and Sullivan's contemporaries. Djordje Nesic provides musical direction and piano accompaniment. At 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org; sold out. (Schweitzer) JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) Continuing its mission in the quirkily enterprising spirit of its founder, Jens Nygaard, this ensemble offers an appealing mixture of rarities and familiar scores. Its program this week includes string quintets by Onslow and Glazunov, and a Nonet by Coleridge-Taylor. At 2 and 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd-Faith Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 799-1259, jupitersymphony.com; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)LEIPZIG GEWANDHAUS ORCHESTRA (Tonight, Monday and Tuesday) Lean, mean and admired over the last generation, the Leipzig players return to the New York area for three concerts. The pianist Yundi Li sits down with the orchestra tonight and Monday, and it will be interesting to hear how glitter and Central European sobriety mix. Other music, all conducted by Riccardo Chailly, will be by Strauss, Schumann and Mahler. Tonight at 8, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $22 to $78. Monday and Tuesday at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $29 to $90. (Holland) MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Sunday) James Levine continues to champion the venerable American composer Elliott Carter, here with ''A Mirror on Which to Dwell.'' Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 12 (one of my favorites) and the Brahms Second Serenade will also be performed. Lucy Shelton sings, and Mr. Levine plays the piano. At 5 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $58 and $68. (Holland)METROPOLITAN MUSEUM ARTISTS IN CONCERT (Tonight) Members of the Metropolitan Museum's resident chamber group present a program featuring Schubert's Five German Dances, Seven Trios and Coda for String Quartet (D. 90); Kodaly's Duo for Violin and Cello (Op. 7); Kurtag's 12 Microludes for String Quartet (Op. 13); and Brahms's String Quintet in G (Op. 111). The musicians are Edward Arron, cellist; Nicholas Cords, violist; Jennifer Frautschi and Yosuke Kawasaki, violinists; and Colin Jacobsen, violinist and violist. At 8, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $30. (Schweitzer)MUSIC FROM JAPAN (Tomorrow and Sunday) Joji Yuasa is a veteran composer; an erstwhile colleague of Takemitsu; a professor emeritus at the University of California, San Diego; and the subject of a retrospective tomorrow that will include a world premiere. The biwa is a kind of lute (not unlike the Chinese pipa), which the player-singer Junko Tahara has formed into a distinctive ensemble that will perform everything from a brand-new work by Masataka Matsuo to a medieval epic called ''The Tale of the Heike'' on Sunday afternoon. Both are part of the small Music From Japan festival, which offers a compact look at musical worlds many of us still don't know well enough. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $20, or $35 for both concerts. (Midgette) NEW YORK CONSORT OF VIOLS (Sunday) This expert early-music ensemble, joined by a choir of men and boys, offers medieval and Renaissance works from Spain. At 3 p.m., Church of the Transfiguration, 1 East 29th Street, Manhattan, (212) 684-4174, josephpan.com/nycv; $20 in advance; $25 at the door; $15 for students and 65+. (Kozinn) ORION STRING QUARTET (Wednesday) Under the auspices of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the Orion players honor one of America's distinguished composers when they play four string quartets by Leon Kirchner. At 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $30 to $52. (Holland) * THOMAS QUASTHOFF (Monday and Wednesday) Mr. Quasthoff is reputed to be as gifted a teacher as he is a recitalist, and with his latest recording, ''The Jazz Album: Watch What Happens'' (Deutsche Grammophon), he aims to show that he is as gifted a jazz singer as a classical one. He will demonstrate several facets this week at Carnegie Hall. On Monday a program at Zankel Hall called ''Thomas Quasthoff and the Art of Song'' will showcase some of his best current students in Berlin; on Wednesday he takes the main stage with a jazz combo for a concert of his own. Unusual, perhaps, but it could also be pretty hot. Monday at 7:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $15 for Monday; $18 to $64 for Wednesday. (Midgette) * MICHAEL SCHADE (Tuesday) The dulcet-voiced Swiss-born tenor Michael Schade, an artist especially noted for his Mozart roles in the opera house, is also an elegant lieder singer. For his unusual song recital at Zankel Hall with the pianist Malcolm Martineau, Mr. Schade will focus on the German Romantic poet Joseph von Eichendorff, as set to music by Schumann, Mendelssohn, Brahms and Wolf. While in New York, Mr. Schade is also appearing as Tamino in the Metropolitan Opera's production of ''Die Zauberflote.'' At 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $36 to $42. (Tommasini)VIENNA PHILHARMONIC (Tonight through Sunday) These days the Vienna Philharmonic is as famous for its resistance to hiring women as for its playing, but let's not forget that purely as a music-making machine, it's a glorious thing. Daniel Barenboim leads it in three concerts: Schubert and Bruckner symphonies tonight; all Bartok (including the Second Piano Concerto with Lang Lang) tomorrow; and the Schumann Fourth Symphony and orchestral music from Wagner operas on Sunday. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $51 to $200. (Kozinn)DanceFull reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.LES BALLETS TROCKADERO DE MONTE CARLO (Tomorrow and Sunday) This zany all-male troupe of ballerinas will perform at two New York-area theaters this weekend. The ballerhinos invade Princeton tomorrow at 8 p.m. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place, Princeton, N.J., (609) 258-2787, mccarter.org; $32 to $38. Then they will chasse on to Newark for a performance on Sunday at 3 p.m. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $20 to $58. (Jennifer Dunning) * DANCE AT DNA (Tomorrow and Thursday) Amy Pivar, known for brainy, powerfully emotional choreography, teams up tomorrow with the mezzo-soprano Elaine Valby and the composer-performers Paula M. Kimper and Gilda Lyons for the latest installment in a five-year collaboration. The musical texts include poetry by Paul Bowles and a setting in Hebrew of the 23rd Psalm. Sharing the program are Alexandra Shilling and Ann Robideaux, who create a surreal landscape in their new ''Long Night.'' And tomorrow afternoon, six choreographers will participate in the theater's informal Works in Progress series, which consists of excerpted dance and audience feedback. Bridgman-Packer Dance will follow on Thursday, through March 11, in a dance that explores the concept of ''video partnering,'' as Art Bridgman and Myrna Packer put it. Their video collaborators are Peter Bobrow, Jim Monroe and Matthias Oostrik. On hand to provide the live music will be Robert Een, Ken Field and Glen Velez. ''Works in Progress,'' tomorrow at 5:30 p.m., $10 suggested donation; Pivar tomorrow at 8 p.m., $17; Bridgman-Packer Thursday at 8 p.m., $25. Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, dnadance.org. (Dunning) Philippe Decoufle (Tuesday through Thursday) This French choreographer is well known for his wonderfully entertaining and often poetic large-scale productions that blend dance, circus, music hall and theater. It's a surprise to find him performing a solo, called ''Solo: Le Doute M'Habite'' (''I Am Filled With Doubt''), but there are likely to be visual tricks, humor and theatrical magic aplenty. (Through March 11.) Tuesday and Wednesday at 7.30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $38; $29 for Joyce members. (Roslyn Sulcas) THE 4 TANGO SEASONS (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) This show explores nature's cycles as seen through a man and a woman in love. (Through April 1.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 729-3880, thaliatheatre.org; $30; $27 for students and 65+; all tickets $25 tonight and Thursday. (Dunning)Sally Gross and Company (Tonight through Sunday night) There are a few choreographers who epitomize a certain kind of downtown spirit: dedicated, talented and tenacious. One is Ms. Gross, who has been making austere, economical dances since the 1960s and still has much to say. Two new works, ''The Pleasure of Stillness'' and ''Songs,'' a solo for Ms. Gross, are on the program, along with two pieces from last year; ''With Music #2'' and ''With Words #2.'' At 8, Joyce Soho, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; $15. (Sulcas) MIGUEL GUTIERREZ AND THE POWERFUL PEOPLE (Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) In his new ''Everyone,'' Mr. Gutierrez examines the always topical issue of how and why a dance may be made in a world filled with incoherent current events. (Through March 11.) Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9:30, Sunday at 3 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org; $20, $10 for students; $50 for gala program and reception on Wednesday. (Dunning) Marcia Milhazes Dance Company (Thursday) Marcia Milhazes danced with Maurice Bejart and studied at the Laban Center in London before returning to her native Brazil in 1994. Her company makes its New York debut with ''Tempo de Verao (Summertime),'' which a recent article in Dance Magazine described as ''cultured and trendy.'' Which could be good. (Through March 10.) At 7.30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 691-6500, dtw.org; $20; $12 for students, 65+ and artists. (Sulcas) * 92nd STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL (Tomorrow, Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) Joe Chvala and the Flying Foot Forum, a percussive-dance group from Minneapolis-St. Paul, creates rhythmic patterns with taps, found objects and vocalizing, tomorrow and Sunday. The festival continues on Wednesday with performances by the Dusan Tynek Dance Theater. Mr. Tynek, a Czech-born choreographer, has a style that is vivid and quirky in a quietly powerful folk-art way, in dances that address decidedly unusual themes. His new ''Fleur-de-lis,'' for example, a three-part reimagining of religious paintings and the emotions contained in them, is a dance set to music by the Baroque composer Heinrich Ignaz Franz von Biber. Joe Chvala and the Flying Foot Forum, tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m. Dusan Tynek Dance Theater, Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m. Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500, 92Y.org/HarknessFestival; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)ROYSTON DANCE COMPANY (Tomorrow and Sunday) Robert Royston's new ''StreetSwing'' draws on his experiences as a multiple winner of the ballroom championships in United States Open Swing Dance and World Country Dance. Tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Queens Theater in the Park, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 760-0064, queenstheatre.org; $37; $33 for 65+; $20 for students. (Dunning) * PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company opens its spring season tonight with the lush ''Roses,'' the jaunty yet sad ''Company B'' and Mr. Taylor's new ''Lines of Loss,'' a meditation on different kinds of loss set to eight pieces of music by composers including Guillaume de Machaut and John Cage. Popular Taylor favorites to be performed this week are the haunting ''Sunset'' (tomorrow and Wednesday nights) and the sexy and funny tango piece ''Piazzolla Caldera'' (tomorrow night), and the death-defying yet serene ''Esplanade'' (Sunday afternoon and Wednesday night). Another of the week's highlights promises to be a one-time performance of Mr. Taylor's ''Aureole,'' that luminous 1962 modern-dance classic, on Tuesday in a gala program that also includes the premiere of ''Troilus and Cressida (reduced).'' The new work may well represent the choreographer at his most wicked, set as it is to music by Ponchielli (the well-known tune for Allan Sherman's novelty song ''Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh!''). (Through March 18.) Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday through Thursday at 7 p.m. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $15 to $125. (Dunning)ArtMuseums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums* American Folk Art Museum: MARTiN RAMiREZ, through April 29. Ramirez, a Mexican peasant who immigrated to Northern California and died there at 68 in 1963, spent the last 32 years of his life in a mental hospital, making some of the greatest art of the last century. He had his own way with materials and color and an unforgettable cast of characters (most notably, a mounted caballero and a levitating Madonna crowned like the Statue of Liberty.) But most of all, Ramirez had his own brand of pictorial space, established by rhythmic systems of parallel lines, both curved and straight, whose mesmerizing expansions and contractions simultaneously cosset and isolate his figures. This show should render null and void the distinction between insider and outsider art. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)* American Museum of Natural History: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. This astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples -- larded with fascinating facts and tales -- ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, Bangladesh dowry rituals and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. You are certain to emerge with mind boggled and eyes dazzled. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Smith)* Asia Society: Glass, Gilding, and Grand Design: Art of Sasanian Iran (224-642 A.D.), through May 20. This glinting, glowing show is a reduction of a much larger Paris exhibition that included material from Iranian museums impossible to bring to the United States. But with some 70 examples of silver, glass and silk textile fragments, many from European museums, it is still substantial and the first major exhibition of its kind in this part of the world for more than 30 years. For about four centuries, the Sasanians ruled territory stretching from present-day Iran and Iraq to North Africa. Their only rivals were Rome, Byzantium and, at the very end, the early Islamic dynasties. Much of their surviving art is a sterling example of empire in action. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400. (Holland Cotter) Guggenheim Museum: 'Family Pictures,' through April 16. This show sounds ripe with possibilities. The results, however, are more mixed. The exhibition is drawn from the museum's collection, which explains some of its exclusions and limitations. Many artists you associate with contemporary photography and the family are not in attendance: Richard Bellingham, Tina Barney, Malerie Marder. There is also a sense of false advertising in the exhibition's title. The museum's news release extends the exhibition's exploration into ''representation of families and children in contemporary art and video.'' Images of children, you quickly realize, can operate as a completely different genre. A good portion of the work falls under this rubric. Rineke Dijkstra's ''Beach Portraits'' of adolescents posing awkwardly against stark seascape horizons are isolated (and isolating) images of children on the threshold of adulthood. You don't think about family when gazing at these photographs. Sally Mann is perhaps the best-known contemporary photographer of children, specifically her own. Ms. Mann, represented here by black-and-white photographs from the late 1980s and early 1990s of her ethereally gorgeous children (now grown), has been accused of everything from neglect to child abuse. The questions raised by her dual role as artist and mother, simultaneous protector and potential exploiter of the family, and her choice of family as the central focus of artistic practice, remain vitally interesting. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Martha Schwendener) FRICK COLLECTION: 'GEORGE STUBBS (1724-1806): A CELEBRATION,' through May 27. One of the finest horse painters ever, Stubbs knew his subjects from head to hoof and skin to bones, having dissected them for his famous study ''The Anatomy of the Horse'' (1766). He's best known for his views of aristocratic race horses, seen purely as beautiful animals with no attempt at anthropomorphosis, but he painted other mammals too, dogs, lions, tigers, oxen, monkeys and humans. This intimate show of 17 Stubbs paintings from English collections reveals his admirable range, although the people he portrayed in two large, late canvases, elegiac celebrations of farm workers raking and reaping grain, have the stiffness of figures on a candy box. His horses are his true monuments. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700. (Grace Glueck)International Center of Photography: 'Henri Cartier-Bresson's Scrapbook: Photographs, 1932-46,' through April 29. Arrived by way of the Fondation Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris, this show has more than 300 of the prints the photographer glued into an album and toted to New York for curators at the Museum of Modern Art to cull. Captured by the Nazis, he had been presumed dead when the Modern planned his retrospective. Then he turned up alive -- the ''posthumous'' exhibition opened, with him in attendance, in 1947. The current exhibition reconstructs as best as possible the original layout of the scrapbook. It's an eye-straining affair, but it surveys the revolutionary work he shot in Spain, Italy, Mexico, Britain and France. His taste for uncanny detail linked him to Surrealism and Surrealist wit, but unlike many Surrealists, he remained committed to human values. Boys mug at his camera. Prostitutes swan. Their gazes equalize them with us. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Michael Kimmelman) International Center of Photography: 'Martin Munkacsi: Think While You Shoot!' through April 29. Munkacsi, who inspired Cartier-Bresson, was, by contrast, self-taught, a creature of his own devising. This is the most complete retrospective, with a thick catalog (not too well researched) and dozens of vintage prints from the 1920s through the early '60s. He favored scenes of daily life, absorbing avant-garde ideas about odd angles and abstract compositions. In 1928 he moved to Berlin and traveled the world on assignment to Brazil, Algeria and Egypt. Munkacsi was a stylist, and he made catchy images the only way he knew how, in a modernist mode, which, being an opportunistic form, could serve any master. (See above.) (Kimmelman) * The METropOlitan museum of art: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer, and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Glueck) * Morgan Library & Museum: 'Private Treasures: Four Centuries of European Master Drawings,' through April 8. This show is drawn entirely from an anonymous private collection. Despite the veil of secrecy, a couple of things are obvious: the collector had significant capital for investing in old masters and either an exceptional eye or a good adviser (or both). The works span more than 400 years, from the 16th to the early 20th century, and include drawings in ink and pencil, watercolor, chalk and gouache. The earliest works come from a period when drawing wasn't an autonomous practice but was used as a form of exercise, to apply one's craft, to experiment and to make preliminary sketches for larger works. The best example -- and the most historically significant work here -- is a black chalk drawing, ''The Dead Christ'' (1529-35), by Agnolo Bronzino. With more than 90 drawings in the show, being a diligent observer quickly becomes exhausting. In which case, put down the guide, find a few drawings you like, and enjoy them while you can. After all, you don't know where they came from, where they're going, or when you'll see them again. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Schwendener) Museum of Modern Art: 'Artistic Collaborations: 50 Years of Universal Limited Art Editions,' through May 21. This exhibition marks the half-century milestone for Universal Limited Art Editions in West Islip, N.Y., and its association with the Museum of Modern Art: The museum has acquired one print from every edition made at Universal, more than 1,200 works by nearly 50 artists. Prints by 12 artists are in this show. Among them are lithographs by Jasper Johns, mostly from the 1960s, with his signature maps and flags. Robert Rauschenberg is represented primarily by lithographs from the 1960s that combine found images of figures like John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson with the freehand scrawling associated with Abstract Expressionism. It's hard to fault an exhibition that features prints by masters like Mr. Johns and Mr. Rauschenberg. But given the somewhat precarious position of prints in the contemporary art world, the inclusion of younger artists would make a good argument that traditional printmaking is still relevant and holds possibilities for this generation. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)* MOMA: Armando ReverOn, through April 16. Unless you spotted his single smoke-puff of a painting at MoMA months ago, Armando Reveron probably means nothing to you. Why should he? The artist, who died in 1954, spent most of his life in a shack by the sea in his native Venezuela. Many of his contemporaries dismissed him as nuts. His white-on-white pictures are practically unphotographable. But chances are that if you visit this retrospective, you'll find yourself thinking about him a lot. His art and his story are like few others, and so is the museum's inspired installation: a single, longcorridor with cabinetlike rooms of paintings on either side and, at the very end, against a sea-green wall, a life-size doll with giant bat wings floating overhead. (See above.) (Cotter)* National Academy Museum: HIGH TIMES, HARD TIMES: NEW YORK PAINTING, 1967-1975, through April 22. Organized under the auspices of International Curators Incorporated, this brave if confused exhibition is the first to tackle a neglected subject: New York painting during the period it was supposed to be dead. The show's 42 works by 37 artists reveal that, far from dead, painting was in fact in an uproar that was commensurate with the artistic, social and political turbulence of the times. The alternation between artists who remained loyal in their way to stretched canvas and those who abandoned it, which makes for clear installation, also tidies up history. The main problem is that the exhibition sticks too purposefully to the margins, mixing generations and levels of achievement and continuing the neglect of the main story. Too much of this work is as derivative now as it was then, and functions more as artifact than art. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Smith)Galleries: Chelsea* BAKER OVERSTREET: NEW PAINTINGS Like Keegan McHargue and Devendra Banhart, this young artist has a penchant for tribal motifs, which he flattens into symmetrical compositions and renders with an outsider roughness. The works in his debut show evoke the imagery of the space-ship-obsessed, self-taught artist Ionel Talpazan, as well as Alfred Jensen and Forrest Bess. Their notion of the visionary is both self conscious and familiar, but they are painted with energetic dispatch and a sure sense of scale, color and wit that encourages you to stay tuned. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, (212) 633-6555, through March 17. (Smith) Last ChanceDia:Beacon: 'Agnes Martin: A Field of Vision: Paintings from the 1980's,' Dia:Beacon, a bulwark of Minimalism on the banks of the Hudson River north of Manhattan, has three permanent galleries devoted to the artist Agnes Martin. Over the last two years they have been used for a retrospective of her paintings, installed in decade-long increments. The fourth installment is now in place. If Ms. Martin's spare, lucid compositions of drawn lines and painted bands feel different from much of the art around them here, that is because she was not a Minimalist. In fact, she called herself an Abstract Expressionist, and she was adamant on this point. The 18 paintings here confirm her conviction, in a show as deep, light-glinting, restless and purposeful as the river flowing nearby. Dia:Beacon, Riggio Galleries, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, www.diacenter.org; closes on Monday. (Cotter) * MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'SAUL STEINBERG: ILLUMINATIONS,' A cartoonist-artist extraordinaire, Saul Steinberg (1914-99) was a veritable Leonardo of graphic drollery. His famous New Yorker cover positioning Manhattan at the center of the world may be his best-known drawing, but he took on everything -- Floridians, linguistic concepts, erotica, cowboys, Cubism, nature, architecture and women -- with visual puns, manic doodles, grandiloquent calligraphy and other inspired artifice. As this show of more than 100 Steinberg drawings, collages and constructions goes on, Steinberg's progress is evident: from relatively simple cartoons like ''Feet on Chair'' (1946), in which a fellow reading a newspaper parks his feet on the seat of an ornate Victorian monstrosity, to complex comments on the state of the world, like ''Street War (Cadavre Exquisis)'' (about 1972-74), derived from news clips of postcolonial troubles in the Middle East and Africa (and possibly influenced by his growing interest in underground comix), a premonitory take on the precarious situation of the world today. The flow of his work amazes. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org; closes on Sunday. (Glueck)* Spectral Evidence This group show, organized by the sharp young artist Steven Lam, is about the hard shell of illusion that surrounds official history, and about art's attempt to crack open that shell. These histories range from lynchings and United States government surveillance in the 1930s, to propaganda and the Vietnam War in the 1960s, to the destruction of the Buddhist sculptures at Bamiyan in the 2000s. Terry Adkins, Jill Godmilow, Sreshta Rit Premnath and Elaine Reichek are among the artists who explore the authenticity of ''facts'' woven from ideology and desire. Rotunda Gallery, 33 Clinton Street, near Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 875-4047; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Myrna Packer and Art Bridgman of Bridgman-Packer Dance, above, perform with ''video partners'' in Dance at DNA. Page 22. (Photo by Kelly Gottesman and Lisa Levart)
THEATER -- John Ahlin, left, and Justin Blanchard in ''Journey's End,'' a revival about life in the trenches during World War I. This page, below. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 ART -- A plate from the early fifth century is part of an exhibition of works from Sasanian Iran at the Asia Society. Page 22. (Photo by Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSIC (77%); WORLD WAR I (74%); COUPLE COUNSELING (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); MUSIC GENRES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



18 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; SPARE TIMES: March 2 - March 8; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: 'ROTI AND HOMENTASCHN'

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
Cultural and culinary mash-ups will reach new heights tomorrow night, when several organizations organize a Purim carnival with a West Indian theme. ''Roti and Homentaschn,'' a celebration of this Jewish holiday that begins at sundown tomorrow, will feature the usual puppets and costumed revelry, noisemakers and desserts like a triangular cookie. But this party will depart from tradition, with calaloo, fish stew and ginger beer, as well as the marching band the Rude Mechanical Orchestra, playing klezmer and calypso music; members of Romashka, a ''nu-Gypsy'' group; and D.J. Rekha, the founder of the Basement Bhangra parties. 
The event is a joint effort by the theater company Great Small Works, which contributed life-size puppets; Domestic Workers United, whose members donated the West Indian food; the Workmen's Circle, a Yiddish cultural group; and Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, an organization dedicated to promoting equality in New York. The celebration focuses on what its organizers see as a lesser-known side of the holiday: its politics. Dara Silverman, the executive director of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, said that Purim is often ''smoothed out as 'the Jewish Halloween.' '' But the story behind it is more complex. Esther, as told in the book named for her, pretends not to be Jewish when she marries the king of Persia. But when the Jews are threatened by Haman, an evil adviser to the king, she owns up to her heritage -- at great risk to herself -- to save them. ''Purim is about how the actions of one person saved an entire population of people,'' said one of the party's organizers, Rachel Mattson, of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice. ''It's a story of social change.'' The hosts hope to draw attention to the plight of domestic workers and immigrants in a playful way, with giant baby puppets and a space decorated to look like a bassinet, as well as short plays and participants dressed like, as Ms. Mattson put it, ''bicycle-riding Yiddishists that try to get the wheels of justice to move faster.'' The results, the organizers hope, will increase awareness and spur guests, Jews and non-Jews alike, to get politically involved. But they also hope people just have fun. ''You're mandated on Purim to get so drunk that you can't tell the difference between good and evil,'' Ms. Mattson said. ''We take that mandate seriously.'' (Roti and Homentaschn: The Palace Workers Revolt! A Purim Carnival Spectacular, 8 p.m. to 2 a.m., Workmen's Circle, 45 East 33rd Street, Manhattan, 212-647-8966, Ext. 10, or info@jfrej.org to R.S.V.P.; $12. Costumes are suggested, but no one will be turned away for lack of funds or flash.) MELENA RYZIK

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); PURIM (90%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HALLOWEEN (77%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (74%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); POPULATION SIZE (56%); THEATER (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORKMEN'S CIRCLE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



19 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Exploring Identity as a Problematic Condition

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Lorna Simpson, whose refined and impassioned work is the subject of a 20-year retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American Art, began her career with an intense interest in socially engaged ''street photography'' in the Roy DeCarava mode. Then she did something unexpected to that genre. And then she did something else to it.
 First she decided that rather than wait for everyday life to wander her way, she would distill its political essence in carefully posed studio photographs, substituting symbol for incident. Then she added words; not descriptive captions but phrases, overheard in conversation or lifted from the news, that interacted with the images in a free-associational exchange.
 Actually, the associating wasn't all that free. Ms. Simpson knew what she wanted to focus on: race, a political fact and sociological fantasy that has shaped American culture so thoroughly for so long that no one can tell where its impact begins or ends, though countless people feel its effects every day. 
 Ms. Simpson, who is African-American, was born in Brooklyn in 1960. By the time she was in art school, first in New York City, then in California, the civil rights era was in the past; Black Power had, to all appearances, crashed and burned. Unemployment was high, poverty unrelenting, ethnic divisions bitter and deep. 
 A new kind of activist thinking, multiculturalism, had coalesced. Whether it loosened or cemented divisions is a matter for debate. But by approaching race as a dynamic and changing experience rather than as a fixed state, it opened up options for art. Artists could address the politics of their lives without resorting to race-based polemics or celebrations. They could play with identity, prod it, stand back from it, move in close. 
 While immersed in this environment in the early 1980s, Ms. Simpson was also getting what might be called a poly-aesthetic education as a graduate student at the University of California, San Diego. Photography remained her medium of choice, but her teachers included a conceptualist (Allan Kaprow), a performance artist (Eleanor Antin), filmmakers (Babette Mangolte and Jean-Pierre Gorin) and a poet (David Antin). She learned from them all.
 The first piece you see at the Whitney, in a tightly edited version of a traveling show organized by Helaine Posner for the American Federation of Arts, sets a template for what is to come. Titled ''Gestures/Reenactments'' (1985), it's a sequence of six large black-and-white photographs of a dark-skinned man in a white T-shirt and pants. Seen from neck to mid-thigh, he strikes different poses, hand on hip, arms crossed. In two pictures, he faces away from the camera. 
 On their own, the images are fairly bland, fashion-shoot stuff. But the words on accompanying plaques toughen them up. One plaque reads: 
 So who's your hero -- 
 Me & my runnin buddy
 How his running buddy was standing
 When they thought he had a gun
 Suddenly, the fact that the man is seen from behind makes him vulnerable. Other texts refer, obliquely, to problems with finding a job, fraught relationships with women, racial violence, family. As words and images bounce off one another, a generic figure becomes a character in a narrative: a suspect in a police lineup, a subject of racial profiling, a black man under duress. 
 Over the next several years Ms. Simpson revisited and elaborated this format, with one significant alteration: she used only women as models. For the most part she presented them all in the same way, dressed in plain white shifts -- slips? night dresses? hospital gowns? -- with their backs to us or their faces otherwise invisible. 
 The figures send out mixed signals. On the one hand they're passive subjects of scrutiny, like slaves on an auction block. The woman in ''You're Fine'' (1988) lies on her side on what could be an examination table. The phrase ''Secretarial Position'' is on her right, a checklist of clinical terms for a physical exam on her left. The implication is that as long as she stays healthy and remains lying there, she'll have a job. And she's not being hired for her office skills.
 At the same time, because her face isn't visible, she retains a degree of control. Her thoughts and history are her own. Ms. Simpson hints at one such history in a beautiful piece called ''Waterbearer'' (1986). A young woman, facing away from us, pours water from an old metal pitcher with one hand and from a plastic container with the other. Beneath her are the mysterious words ''She saw him disappear by the river, they asked her to tell what happened, only to discount her memory.'' Even when she is willing to share herself, it turns out, she is devalued.
 In the early 1990s the women briefly exchanged their shifts for men's suits in intriguing pieces that dealt with complicated sexual identities, as well as with race. Then in a series titled ''Public Sex,'' from the mid-'90s, figures disappeared altogether, replaced by moody shots of urban parks and buildings paired with blocks of printed dialogue that read like scripts for illicit encounters. 
 When Ms. Simpson first showed these cityscapes, some people said she had abandoned political art for entertainment, an accusation that points to one of multiculturalism's major downsides, the Otherness syndrome: if you're black, you're supposed to make recognizably black art. Maybe the film-noirish look of ''Public Sex'' could be taken as an anticipatory jab at such criticism. But the series was made at the height of the AIDS crisis, a calamity that carried off friends of Ms. Simpson's and took a huge toll on African-American men and women in the city.
 Ms. Simpson wasn't abandoning race as a subject, but broadening her take on it, formally and conceptually, to encompass sex and class. In the exhibition catalog, the art historian Okwui Enwezor writes that her photographic work, melding images and words, had always been ''fundamentally audiovisual.'' It became literally so when she started making short films. 
 In one of the first, ''Call Waiting'' (1997), several young men and women -- black, Asian, Latino -- chat on the telephone only to be interrupted by calls from friends, who are interrupted by other friends. Everybody, it turns out, is emotionally or erotically involved with everyone else in a snarled network of misunderstanding, betrayal and frustration. 
 If the early photographic pieces are Ms. Simpson's most forceful work, her films are her most beautiful. ''Corridor'' (2003) sets parallel scenes from the lives of two women, one apparently a household servant in 1860, the other a well-heeled homeowner in 1960, side-by-side to haunting effect. (Both roles are played by the artist Wangechi Mutu.) 
 ''Easy to Remember'' (2001), in which 15 pairs of lips collectively hum a Rodgers and Hart song that Ms. Simpson remembers, in a John Coltrane version, from her childhood, is like a lullaby ''Ode to Joy.'' When the film made its debut in the 2002 Whitney Biennial a few months after Sept. 11, its poignancy was almost unbearable.
 In a more recent musical piece, ''Cloudscape'' (2004), a middle-aged African-American man (the artist Terry Adkins) stands whistling an unidentified folk tune as studio-produced fog gathers around him, obscures him from sight, then clears. It's as if we're seeing the man in ''Gestures/Reenactments'' 30 years later, freed of old conflicts and constraints, but also harder to read and make sense of. 
 But if you assumed from such lyrical work that Ms. Simpson had mellowed, you would be wrong. A new film, ''The Institution,'' finished just before the Whitney show opened, returns to themes -- race and control, blackness and whiteness as equally problematic conditions -- that she has been exploring with persistent, quiet rigor for more than two decades. 
 And this retrospective ends not on a valedictory note, but with a vision of a career in progress, with an artist still taking the raw data of race in America, doing something to it, then doing something else to it: mapping and clarifying its image, making that image art. ''Lorna Simpson'' continues through May 6 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street; (212) 570-3676.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lorna Simpson -- ''Corridor (Phone),'' above, a still from a 2003 film, is included in this retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American Art. (Photo by Lorna Simpson)(pg. E27)
 Lorna Simpson's ''Waterbearer,'' from 1986, a gelatin silver print with vinyl lettering. (Photo by Collection Sean and Mary Kelly, New York)(pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%) Photography; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Whitney Museum of American Art (NYC)

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Lorna Simpson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



20 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2094 words

HEADLINE: Captain Smith, the Tides Are Shifting on the James

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

DATELINE: JAMESTOWN, Va. 

 BODY:
At the banks of the James River here, not far from where an archaeological dig has found pottery shards and remains of settlers from 400 years ago, a proud Capt. John Smith faces the waters and the setting sun. A wooden stockade extends near the shoreline -- the water has moved inland over the centuries -- showing where his frail fort once stood. But Smith stands heroically tall, his bronze cape seeming to ripple in the brisk winter winds. Even the inscription proclaims his importance: ''Governor of Virginia, 1608.'' 
 Governor? Virginia? At the time Jamestown consisted of a paltry isolated settlement of several dozen souls, with disease, starvation and battles with local Indian tribes regularly claiming almost as many lives as Virginia Company could send in delayed relief ships from England, the funds raised from wary investors. But the Smith statue does give an accurate sense of the scale of the leadership, strategic thinking, ruthlessness and courage Smith demonstrated during the brief period (not even two years) he led that first English colony n the Americas -- qualities reflected in his own memoirs and other accounts (many of which are about to be republished by the Library of America). Nearby, offering further testimony to Jamestown's grandeur, a giant obelisk stands, erected, like the statue, a century ago, as part of the tercentennial celebrations of the founding.
But now, two months before the 400th anniversary festivities begin , the monumental hardly matters anymore, and neither, it seems, does John Smith. Other kinds of commemoration have been prepared. It isn't that Jamestown is being treated as less important: it is still regarded as the place where the DNA of a nation was first laid out, where, in 1607, England established an early beachhead against the expanding empires of Spain and Portugal and so determined the main language we speak and many of the ideas we share. 
 But a different understanding is made explicit here in the two historical museums and outdoor facilities devoted to the Jamestown theme. Jamestown Settlement, run by the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation (a state agency), was established in 1957 just before the 350th anniversary so the nearby historical site would not be disrupted with the Settlement's outdoor ''living-history'' demonstrations, costumed guides, period crafts and reproductions of the Jamestown fort, an Indian village and the three ships that brought the first group of 104 men and boys to these shores. In October, Jamestown Settlement added a major 30,000-square-foot exhibition hall to its new visitors' center, telling an unusually detailed history of the area through the 17th century. 
 Meanwhile the original site, now called Historic Jamestowne, is part of the Colonial National Historical Park and jointly run by the National Park Service and the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities. It incorporates the monuments of past tributes -- the statue, the obelisk, a memorial church -- but has just added a modest historical exhibition in its visitors' center, and, last spring, opened a 7,500-square-foot museum -- the Archaearium -- devoted to the Jamestown artifacts unearthed by the on-site excavations, ranging from cooking utensils and weapons to bones and coins. 
 These exhibitions are ambitious and often informative, particularly the Settlement's, and provide much of the detail needed to begin to understand Jamestown. Yet a price is paid for the latest in museumware and historical thinking: One isn't quite sure what is being celebrated or why, or whether in fact a celebration is even occurring. 
 The exhibition created by the Park Service, for example, repeats the classic tribute: ''Jamestown's notable legacies include the introduction of representative government, English culture and heritage, and Protestant religion,'' all of which had an impact on the evolution of Virginia and the other colonies. But those legacies also include conflicts with Indians and the introduction of ''race-based slavery.'' These matters, once considered secondary, have become central. Now Jamestown is seen as the precursor to ''a multicultural society grappling with a legacy of slavery and racism.'' 
 Another panel emphasizes the point: 
 ''Past Jamestown anniversaries were referred to as 'celebrations.' Because many facets of Jamestown's history are not cause for celebration, like human bondage and the displacement of Virginia Indians, the Jamestown 400th Anniversary is referred to as the Jamestown 2007 Commemoration.'' Throughout this introductory exhibition Jamestown is not the beleaguered settlement cheered on against all odds, but is a hothouse laboratory for conflict, oppression and perhaps accommodation. 
 A similar, though slightly less polemical, vision suffuses the major Settlement exhibition, with its artifacts, textual panels, statues and dioramas. (Thomas E. Davidson was the curator and Gallagher & Associates the designers. ) When the institution was founded 50 years ago, accompanying exhibitions were about Virginia's British heritage and great achievements by Virginians. Now the theme is: ''Three Cultures, One Century: America's Story.'' Jamestown becomes archetypal not because it laid the foundations for British influence on American political culture, eventually enshrining notions of rights and representation, but because it established a pattern of conflict with Indians and enslavement of Africans -- something that is here homogenized into a more vague multicultural interaction. 
 The first major galleries are devoted to the three cultures. They include descriptions of local Indian tribes (largely based on Smith's writings) accompanying a life-size diorama of a forest hunt; a depiction of West Central African ways of life with a diorama showing a man smoking outside a hut, a world from which the first blacks in Virginia had been wrested; and a depiction of an Elizabethan-era London street. The Indians, we read, were ''in harmony with the land that sustained them'' and formed an ''advanced, complex society of families and tribes.'' English society -- the society that gave us the King James Bible and Shakespeare along with stirrings of democratic argument -- is described as offering ''limited opportunity'' in which a ''small elite'' were landowners; in London, we are told, ''life was difficult,'' with social dislocation, low wages, unemployment, etc. 
 True enough about England, except for the lack of perspective and the whiffs of implied equivalence between vastly different universes. Less true with its idea of an ''advanced complex society'' of Powhatans: all human societies, even agrarian ones, are complex in their methods of organization; in this case there is little information to suggest much more among these 30 warring tribes bound by a strong ruler's conquest. The overall impact of this three-culture melange is only to diminish a visitor's sense of English culture. 
 But finally the depiction of the three cultures begins to seem irrelevant, because it is never really shown that ''it is from the interaction of these different cultural traditions that 17th century Virginia society was born.'' 
 In what way, for example, apart from name places and types of food, was Powhatan culture a major influence on Virginia society? The continued state of conflict with the Indians was a major influence, in which negotiations, accommodations and episodes of trade were punctuated with battle. That conflict was not a simple matter. It was a confrontation between alien and opposing cultures possessing unequal powers, a conflict that has accompanied most cultures' migratory histories, from ancient times to our own. 
 As for the influence of West Central African culture, with its described political hierarchies, and its own internal history of enslavement through conquest (referred to in the exhibition's text), it is also difficult to see just how Angolan or Kongo culture shaped early-17th-century Virginia. Even in later years the cultures created by American slaves are not replications of African cultures but distant echoes of it, something hinted at in one of the exhibition's later galleries. 
 During the entire formative period of Jamestown -- from 1607 through 1619, when the nature of the settlement was established and its economy finally began to find a footing with the growing of tobacco -- there were no Africans in Virginia at all. The first black chattel servants were brought to Jamestown during that latter year almost by accident, just as representative democracy was also being established. These unfortunate 20-some prisoners were looted during a piratical English attack on a Portuguese slave ship. Systematic slavery doesn't appear to begin in Virginia for decades. 
 So the idea of mutual interaction is not too convincing. Still, there is much to learn in the exhibition's unfolding: it touches on the European drive for colonial power, on sea navigation, the establishment of Jamestown, the story of Pocahontas, conflicts with Indians, the discovery of tobacco as a major source of income leading to the development of Virginia's gentlemen farmers (and the drive toward the importation of slaves), the evolution of Virginia's legislature. But John Smith's extraordinary interactions with the Powhatan chief -- matching him as a wary warrior and negotiator -- are not explored. The dominant statues in the exhibition galleries are of the Powhatan rulers, Wahunsonacock and Opechancanough, along with the African Ndongo ruler, Queen Njinga, who fought against the Portuguese and from whose lands the first blacks brought to America were pulled. 
 So what exactly is being celebrated here? A closing gallery makes some suggestions: ''Principles of Law and Justice,'' ''Exploration and Discovery,'' ''Representative Government.'' But also ''Displacement of Indigenous People'' and ''Servitude and Injustice.'' What a change from the Tercentennial when Jamestown was the symbol of America's birth and President Theodore Roosevelt, Mark Twain and Booker T. Washington spoke. On the 350th anniversary Queen Elizabeth made her first royal trip to the United States, and she is expected to come this time as well. But what will she find? Not the triumph of British influence, but the triumph of ambiguity, discomfort and vague multiculturalism. 
 Of course much has changed in 50 years; much had to. Those 1957 celebrations themselves provided evidence of the sins of the past: the Virginia Chamber of Commerce withdrew some invitations to festivities after it found out they were sent to distinguished Virginians who happened to be black. Clearly too it is impossible to understand Jamestown without understanding the fate of Indian tribes. And, despite its flaws, the Settlement's exhibition does much to spur a greater understanding of Jamestown. 
 But the impulse to commemorate rather than celebrate is a sign of how rigidly the Jamestown affair and its aftermath are now being seen. And unfortunately an extraordinary culture unable to celebrate itself and its past, with all its imperfections and failings, is not likely to have a clear vision of the present and future.Not Quite So English
 Jamestown Settlement, operated by the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation, includes outdoor ''living history'' demonstrations, an exhibition hall and a new visitors center. It is open daily 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (until 6 p.m. June 15 through Aug. 15) and is closed Christmas and New Year's Day. Admission is $13.50; $6.25 for 6- to 12-year-olds; free for those under 6; historyisfun.org. 
 Located nearby is Historic Jamestowne, part of the Colonial National Historical Park, which includes past tributes to the settlement as well as a museum and a new exhibition in the Visitors' Center. The entrance gate is open daily 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (until 5:30 p.m. from May 28 through Sept. 5); the visitors center is open daily 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the Glasshouse remains open until 5 p.m. Admission is $10; free for those 15 and younger; nps.gov/archive/colo/Jamestwn/jamestown.htm.
 Thirty minutes away on Route 1020 is the Yorktown Victory Center, which, along with Jamestown and Williamsburg, is part of Virginia's Historical Triangle. Hours are the same as at Jamestown. Admission, $8.75; $4.50 for 6- to 12-year-olds and free for those under 6; there are also combination tickets for Jamestown and Yorktown, $17.75 ; $8.50 for 6- to 12-year-olds; free, under 6. Information: historyisfun.org. Information about 400th-anniversary celebrations: americas400thanniversary.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jamestown -- Recreations of two of the three English ships that reached Virginia in 1607. (Photo by Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation)(pg. E27)
A recreated colonial fort in Jamestown Settlement, one of two historical centers devoted to the Jamestown legacy. (Photo by Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation)
 Entrance to the Archaearium, a museum in Historic Jamestowne devoted to artifacts. (Photo by National Park Service)(pg. E29)Chart/Map: ''Historic Jamestowne''Map of Virginia highlighting Jamestowne and points of interest. (pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (88%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%) Reviews

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: Edward Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (92%); PORTUGAL (76%); SPAIN (68%) Jamestown (Va)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



21 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Losing Their Buzz

BYLINE: By May R. Berenbaum. 
May R. Berenbaum, head of the department of entomology at the University of Illinois, is the author of ''Buzzwords: A Scientist Muses on Sex, Bugs and Rock 'n' Roll.''

DATELINE: Urbana, Ill. 

 BODY:
WHEN Hollywood filmmakers want to heighten the tension of an insect fear film, they just arrange for millions of killer bees to appear out of nowhere to threaten a vulnerable group of people -- over the years, these have included children in a school bus, celebrants at a Mardi Gras parade and people living near a nuclear power plant. 
 But people from all demographic groups across the country are facing a much more frightening real-life situation: the disappearance of millions of bees. This winter, in more than 20 states, beekeepers have noticed that their honeybees have mysteriously vanished, leaving behind no clues as to their whereabouts. There are no tell-tale dead bodies either inside colonies or out in front of hives, where bees typically deposit corpses of dead nestmates.
What's more, the afflicted colonies tend to be full of honey, pollen and larvae, as if all of the workers in the nest precipitously decamped on some prearranged signal. Beekeepers are up in arms -- last month, leaders in the business met with research scientists and government officials in Florida to figure out why the bees are disappearing and how to stop the losses. Nobody had any answers. 
 That beekeepers are alarmed over this situation is understandable, but, just as in the movies, the public may not recognize the magnitude of the threat that these mysterious events present. 
 A decline in the numbers of Apis melllifera, the world's most widely distributed semi-domesticated insect, doesn't just mean a shortage of honey for toast and tea. In fact, the economic value of honey, wax and other bee products is trivial in comparison with the honeybee's services as a pollinator. More than 90 crops in North America rely on honeybees to transport pollen from flower to flower, effecting fertilization and allowing production of fruit and seed. The amazing versatility of the species is worth an estimated $14 billion a year to the United States economy.
 Approximately one-third of the typical American's diet (primarily the healthiest part) is directly or indirectly the result of honey bee pollination. Production of almonds in California, a $2 billion enterprise, is almost entirely dependent on honey bees. Every year beekeepers transport millions of bees around the country to meet the ever-growing need for pollination services for almonds, apples, blueberries, peaches and other crops. This year it is possible that there won't be enough bees to meet the demand for pollinators. 
 Theories abound as to potential causes of what is being called colony collapse disorder. As a social species living in close quarters at high densities -- the average hive contains upwards of 30,000 insects -- honeybees are prone to a staggering diversity of fungal, bacterial and viral diseases. In the 1980s, honeybee numbers plummeted when two species of parasitic mites appeared, wiping out most populations of wild bees and placing more pressure on managed colonies. This latest drop in numbers may be the consequence of a new infection, or of several diseases simultaneously, leading to a fatally compromised immune system. 
 It is also possible that severe stress brought on by crowding, inadequate nutrition or even the combined effects of prophylactic antibiotics and miticides sprayed by beekeepers to ward off infections may be a factor. Another, particularly sad, possibility is that accidental exposure to a new pesticide may cause non-lethal behavioral changes that interfere with the ability of honeybees to orient and navigate; brain-damaged foraging bees may simply get lost on their way home and starve to death away from the hive. 
 Irrespective of its causes, however, this drop comes at a critical time, with demand for pollination services rocketing upward. Even in a high-tech age when the human capacity to improve upon nature seems limitless, there is no satisfactory substitute for the honeybee. Thus it's astonishing that beekeeping remains largely unimproved by technological advances relative to just about every other form of animal husbandry. The basic design of honey bee housing is essentially unchanged since L. L. Langstroth patented his movable frame hive in 1852; artificial insemination of queens, the last significant technological advance in beekeeping, was introduced early in the 20th century. The 21st century holds great promise for innovation. 
 Last October, an international consortium of scientists announced the publication of the sequence of the entire honey bee genome. Among the benefits of knowing the full gene inventory is that it has allowed the construction of a whole-genome microarray -- essentially a microscope slide dotted with genetic material -- here at the University of Illinois. 
 Microarray analysis is a powerful tool for examining differences among a very large number of genes rapidly and efficiently; it's the basis for new diagnostic tools, for example, for clinical evaluation of many forms of cancer. For bees, microarray analysis of differences between healthy and afflicted bees may reveal the causes and provide insights for developing a cure. 
 The real key to dealing with colony collapse disorder, however, is understanding the extent of the problem, which may prove to be more of a challenge than figuring out its origins. Although Americans are in general good at counting things of value, we've done an absolutely appalling job at counting our bees and other pollinators. 
 In October, I served as chair of a committee for the National Research Council, the research arm of the National Academy of Sciences, on the status of pollinators in North America. Among the clearest conclusions of our report was that Americans do not keep track of pollinators, even the one on which much of our agriculture depends.
 For example, the Department of Agriculture's statistics service has kept records of honeybee colonies managed by beekeepers since 1947, but the annual survey monitors only colonies used in honey production. Colonies used exclusively for pollination are not included, nor do surveys take into account the fact that some honey-producing colonies travel. The Agriculture Department also doesn't track bees kept by small-scale beekeepers with fewer than five colonies. 
 No current survey monitors colony health or variability in bee numbers over the season, a critical variable for assessing population dynamics as well as economic effects of fluctuations. Although the Agriculture Department surveys beekeeping operations every five years using criteria that address some of these issues, five years between surveys provides ample time for irreparable damage to occur before a problem can be recognized. 
 Conspicuous among the recommendations from the National Research Council committee was a call for the department to make annual bee assessments, with winter losses monitored, general health assessed and pollination services quantified. 
 Moreover, no system is in place to monitor feral bees -- those that escape from managed colonies yet contribute critical pollination services to both wild plants and farms. We need long-term monitoring of feral honeybees along with other pollinators if we are to understand the true magnitude of pollination services essential for a healthy agricultural economy. 
 We count our pigs, our cows and our chickens (even before they hatch). The Agriculture Department, amid concerns about infectious disease and agro-terrorism, has even proposed establishing a national animal identification system, under which it could trace the origin of any animal in the food chain within 48 hours.
 Yet honeybees, which contribute to our food chain in many more ways than any other animal species (and whose pollination makes available the alfalfa and clover processed into hay to feed beef and dairy cattle), are disappearing without a trace at a rate we can't even measure accurately. Such obliviousness with respect to a precious resource in crisis might play well in a bad science fiction movie, but it's truly alarming to see it in real life.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Frank Stockton) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); APICULTURE (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); TREE NUT FARMING (68%); PESTICIDES (58%); PARADES & MARCHES (57%); POWER PLANTS (56%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (56%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (56%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (52%) Bees; Honey; Agriculture; Pesticides; Bees

PERSON: May R (Prof) Berenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



22 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: A Cry to Limit Chinese Imports Rings at a Troubled Paper Mill

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: LUKE, Md. 

 BODY:
For years the residents of this economically distressed hollow in the Appalachians have watched textile mills, glass factories and tire makers close down one after the other. Now its lone remaining big factory -- ''the last man standing,'' as the production manager at the paper mill here put it -- is threatened by imports of cheaper paper made in China.
 ''We're still the economic engine for this whole area,'' said Scott Graham, the production manager, referring to the river valley and forested hills surrounding the mill. ''But our operations cannot compete with these below-cost imports.''
It is a familiar story in the struggle of the American industrial base to cope with globalization, but this one may have a different ending. 
 The problems of paper mills here and elsewhere around the country have become a test case for a possible new confrontation between the United States and China, which many industry officials and members of Congress hope could lead to new tariffs on imports not only of Chinese-made paper but also of steel, furniture, textiles and plastics.
 In coming weeks, the Commerce Department is expected to decide whether to impose duties on high-gloss paper known as ''coated paper'' -- the kind made here in Luke -- that is imported from China. Many trade specialists in Congress and in the industry expect it to do so. Indeed, China has gone to court to block the decision in advance.
 If imposed, the duties would set an important precedent, reversing 20 years of settled American trade policy in which the United States refrained from making accusations that ''nonmarket economies'' like China were granting illegal subsidies. In its court case, China argues that changing that policy without legislation or a full regulatory hearing would be illegal.
 The Bush administration's decision to face the issue of subsidies comes at a time of mounting pressure by Congress for a tougher stance on trade. With the American trade gap with China widening to a record $232.5 billion last year -- roughly one-third of the entire deficit -- Democrats say that if the Commerce Department does not act, they will pass legislation forcing its hand.
 Many lawmakers say it is time to stop treating China with kid gloves, arguing that Beijing no longer deserves a free ride in which it benefits from a special exemption generally forbidden to Japan, Europe and other advanced industrial powers. 
 ''I'm glad the administration is finally doing something,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the trade subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. ''They are beginning to recognize that there was an election last year.''
 The travails of the Luke mill are similar to those of other aging factories. But the NewPage Corporation, the company that owns the plant and is the largest producer of the high-quality paper, argues that it has hardly stood still in the face of foreign competition.
 Mr. Graham, the production manager, whose grandfather helped pour concrete for the mill's old 600-foot smokestack, points out that in seven years, the mill has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in labor-saving computerized equipment while reducing its work force to 1,000 from 1,500 and increasing its output by a third. 
 True, the plant, a sprawling complex on the upper reaches of the Potomac River, is fired by coal mined nearby and fed by huge quantities of water from local reservoirs, the same way it was when it was built in the 1880s here on the Maryland-West Virginia border. 
 Giant truckloads of trees are hauled up at one end of the mill. On the other end, thick rolls of shiny white paper are loaded on trucks. Among the clients for NewPage's paper are producers of annual reports, labels, Hollywood movie posters and the glossy catalogs put out by Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn and Neiman Marcus.
 Although Chinese companies also use modern equipment, NewPage maintains that their real advantage results from subsidies. They include government grants for modernization, low-cost loans, debt forgiveness, tax breaks for export-oriented companies and subsidies for suppliers of wood and pulp.
 China's market share in coated paper is still small, but rather than wait until Chinese producers dominate the business -- as they have in things like toys and underwear -- the paper mill's backers are hoping to block what they see as unfair competition before it is too late. 
 The involvement of NewPage in the Commerce Department's strategy was not accidental. Last year the department quietly informed critics of China's trade policies that it would be willing to review its longstanding policy of not challenging Chinese subsidies as illegal if they could come up with a clear-cut case.
 Lawyers for NewPage say that Chinese producers charge $800 for a midgrade roll of paper, compared with the $1,000 the American company charges. The price differential alone does not prove the case, but it has enabled Chinese producers to increase their share of the American market from less than 1 percent in 2000 to 5.4 percent last year, the company says.
 Under the complicated rules of trade, countries may impose tariffs in two situations: if an import is deemed to have been ''dumped,'' or sold below cost; or if certain illegal subsidies were involved.
 The first category of tariffs -- to guard against dumping -- are imposed, threatened, disputed, retaliated against and ultimately negotiated all the time. The United States and China have frequently accused each other of dumping, and antidumping tariffs are being contemplated in the coated-paper case.
 What makes this case significant, however, is that the department announced last November that it was also investigating whether to seek duties above and beyond those, to punish China for illegal subsidies.
 Antidumping duties are often low. But if antisubsidy duties are imposed, they could double the price of Chinese paper, eliminating it from the market entirely, lawyers for the Chinese government say. 
 The Commerce Department is expected to announce its decision by April 2. The argument for changing the policy is that China has become a major aggressive player on the world economic stage, and that a policy forged when Beijing was just beginning to move away from communism -- and its subsidies barely produced a ripple -- is out of date. 
 Franklin L. Lavin, the under secretary of commerce for international trade, said that he could not comment on the merits of the case, but that politics did not play a role in the decision to investigate.
 ''Look at the timeline,'' he said. ''This was not a response to the midterm elections or to politics. It's a response to the fact that the China of today is very different from the China of 15 years ago.''
 Lawyers handling the case for the Chinese government and for several Chinese companies say these subsidies are in effect being counted twice in the investigation of antidumping and antisubsidy actions.
 ''The fear is that this case is going to be exploited by industry after industry,'' said William H. Barringer, a partner at Vinson & Elkins, which represents the Chinese government on the issue. ''The first people in the door will be steel. If this is upheld, China will be overwhelmed having to defend all these cases.'' 
 If China loses the case, it has the option of pursuing two kinds of appeals: one with the United States Courts of Appeals and the other with the World Trade Organization in Geneva. The lawyers for China say that Beijing would pursue these appeals rather than engage in any retaliatory tariffs on American goods.
 Many experts see the coated-paper case as one of three recent administration moves to raise pressure on China and to try to pre-empt Congress, forestalling legislation that might dictate trade policy and possibly nullify past trade accords with China and other countries.
 The other two were a February announcement by the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, that the United States would challenge Chinese subsidies at the World Trade Organization in Geneva, and a parallel threat to seek relief at the trade organization if China did not do more to crack down on piracy and counterfeit goods.
 The administration's tougher stance also comes at a time of little progress in the so-called strategic economic dialogue with China, begun with great fanfare last fall by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 ''It's clear these steps are intended to slake Congressional appetites and avert legislation that would put President Bush in a bind,'' said Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow and trade expert at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''It's also designed to give some heft to the 'strategic economic dialogue.' ''
 Some in Congress also see the China actions as a sign that Mr. Paulson, who resigned as chief executive of Goldman Sachs to become Treasury secretary last summer, realizes that his policy toward Beijing is faltering. A main focus has been a failed effort to persuade China to stop interfering with its currency levels in a way aimed at promoting exports.
 ''When Paulson came in, he thought all you have to do is talk logic with the Chinese,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a vociferous critic of China. ''They talked very nicely and gave him ice in the winter. Now he's learning that you have to be tougher. It's not like doing a deal with Goldman Sachs.''
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Paulson, Brookly McLaughlin, said that the dialogue was ''not designed to replace other bilateral negotiations or the necessary enforcement of our trade laws.'' Mr. Paulson, meanwhile, will be trying to shore up his approach with a visit to China in March, his third since taking office.
 The policy rests on the basic idea that American consumers gain tremendous benefits from access to goods from China and that the American economy has proved itself capable of adapting to even the most intense foreign competition, in that way constantly advancing the nation's prosperity and productivity. 
 But that perspective does not carry much weight here in Luke. 
 ''Somebody's got to be left who can do more than flip burgers for a living,'' said Thomas Caldwell, who ran a machine cutting rolls of paper into sheets at the plant before becoming president of the local union seven years ago. ''I'm scared to death of how my grandkids are going to have to deal with this.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charlie Robertson of Keyser, W.Va., at a debarking and chipping machine. The mill has cut jobs and invested in computerized equipment.
At the NewPage mill in Luke, Md., logs are eventually turned into the kind of coated paper used for catalogs, movie posters and annual reports. (Photographs by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 Darin Carey checking a roll at the NewPage paper mill in Luke, Md. (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of Maryland highlighting Luke: The Luke paper mill was built in the 1880s on the upper Potomac. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER MILLS (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER BAG & COATED PAPER MFG (90%); TEXTILES (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LITIGATION (86%); GLASS MFG (78%); TIRE MFG (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%) Paper and Pulp; Customs (Tariff); Law and Legislation; Suits and Litigation; International Trade and World Market; Paper and Pulp; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Factories and Industrial Plants

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) Commerce Department; NewPage (Paper Mill)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (51%) Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) China; United States; Luke (Md)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



23 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Libya Gingerly Begins Seeking Economic but Not Political Reform

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TRIPOLI, Libya, March 1 

 BODY:
For more than three decades, Libya has been an experiment in one man's ideology. The result is a country with few functioning institutions, an unreliable legal system, inadequate schools and hospitals, and a population isolated and unprepared for modernity. 
 That is the assessment of some of the government's own consultants.
Yet the leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, will be holding a huge celebration on Friday to observe the 30th anniversary of the system that has led Libya to its current crisis. So as efforts to change get under way, pushed by a small group of reformers, talk is restricted to economic change. 
 The question on many people's minds is how that can be carried out without political change as well. 
 ''Do you think we can create social and economic prosperity without political reform?'' Ahmed Shebani, a local businessman, asked at an economic conference last week. 
 The Libyan political system is centralized and decentralized. Colonel Qaddafi, called Brother Leader, says that representative democracy is a fraud and that each citizen must participate in the state. So there are 3,000 committees that meet twice a year. There is a 3,000-member council made up of the heads of those committees that assigns priorities and budgets. There are committees on health and finance, as well as local committees that coordinate the national committees. 
 Even though Libya is the wealthiest country in North Africa, roads often do not get paved, housing built or hospitals stocked. In fact, it is far behind its neighbors in almost everything related to human development, especially education, the government consultants say.
 The government hired the Monitor Group, a consulting business based in Cambridge, Mass., to assess the economy and chart a path forward. Challenges were found in every sector. 
 The consultants are here as guests of the nascent reform movement, and they appeared at a conference last week organized by Colonel Qaddafi's son Seif el-Islam el-Qaddafi, the main force behind the drive to retool the economy. 
 All stepped quietly around the question of true political reform.
 ''Look, we have all reached the conclusion that political change is impossible,'' said a former political prisoner who like other dissidents here was afraid to be identified for fear of punishment. ''It is impossible to change the system. So the only thing we can do is support the initiatives taken by someone like Seif and hope that it leads eventually to where we want things to go.'' 
 It is hard to see how change can come quickly in such an undeveloped economy and in a system whose leaders have been resistant to change. 
 Officials here announced recently that they would eliminate 120,000 government jobs as part of a far-reaching effort to restructure the ailing economy. Then they announced that they were not immediately ending the jobs but would give people three years' salary while they looked for work in a private sector that barely exists.
 Officials pay homage to Colonel Qaddafi's philosophy, which is embodied in his Green Book, a melange of pop psychology, socialism, populism and Islam. ''Most people don't understand the system,'' said Ahmed Ali Kojman, a director of Watassimo, Libya's main charity group, run by Colonel Qaddafi's daughter Aisha. ''Those that do, understand it should be the democracy used all over the world.''
 Since criticizing the system is a red line, even the outside consultants avoided doing so.
 ''We have to create a process of improving everything,'' Prof. Michael Porter of Harvard, an expert on competitiveness who has helped plan economic reform efforts here, said carefully at the conference. ''It won't happen overnight. It will take years.''
 Professor Porter added that the principles behind the Qaddafi philosophy were compatible with a competitive economy.
 Libya was once widely regarded as a rogue state, led by a man President Reagan described as a ''mad dog.'' It was accused of financing groups the United States deemed terrorists, and it was isolated from the world after its agents were accused of the bombing of a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988. 
 But Colonel Qaddafi has resolved his major differences with the West, given up the agents convicted in the bombing and given up his unconventional weapons programs. 
 The United Nations lifted its sanctions against Libya in 2003 and the United States resumed full diplomatic relations in 2004. Libya was pointed to as a model, proof that pressure, sanctions and international isolation could rein in a rogue. Some supporters of the current war in Iraq said Libya's moves were evidence that the invasion of Iraq in 2003 had sent a chill through the region's dictators and strongmen.
 But on the streets of Tripoli, it is also evident that Colonel Qaddafi and his inner circle have been persuaded to try to change at least as much by the same dynamic that has unnerved other leaders around the Middle East: the gravest threat to their control is economic distress. 
 In Libya, where more than half the population is under age 20, people say they want jobs and often ask how a country with so much oil wealth can be so poor. People here said they had believed that their troubles were a result of international sanctions. But the sanctions were lifted years ago, and people say they have not seen much improvement in their daily lives.
 ''In many ways, the economic initiatives being proposed are satisfying what people are looking for,'' said Idris Mismari, who publishes a Libyan cultural digest in Egypt because it is banned in Libya. ''So that allows everybody to ignore political reforms.''
 But there is skepticism that the government will follow through on those promises. ''The main problem the regime has is to build the trust of the people,'' said Giumma Attigha, a lawyer who leads a human rights committee here. ''There is a lack of credibility for the regime. When anything comes from the state, even if it is good, they think they are bluffing.''
 Libya has been as isolated and cut off from the rest of the world as Albania was under its longtime Communist dictator, Enver Hoxha. Students continue to go to school in military fatigues and learn to assemble weapons in class. Time is almost irrelevant in Tripoli, so appointments are often skipped with no explanation. The streets are filled with pictures of Colonel Qaddafi, his fist in the air or his gaze turned toward the heavens.
 ''My mission is to incite the people to exercise authority without representation,'' reads one of the Qaddafi slogans posted around town.
 Consultants and officials say the biggest obstacle to development is the lack of adequately educated Libyans. A survey of the government managers, for example, found that only about 3 to 5 percent had any training in the last 20 years.
 So far, the big changes, foreigners based here say, are the roughly 25 new ATMs in Tripoli. And Seif Qaddafi was allowed to create a new Economic Development Board. 
 But Libyans do say there has been social change. Not long ago, Western music was banned, studying English was banned, private property was banned, being a lawyer was banned and capitalism was a crime. Today they want to be part of the world. But they are afraid to leave the cocoon of a welfare state where everyone was poor but expectations were low.
 ''People are depressed and bewildered,'' said Nassereddin Ali, 33, a playwright in Tripoli. ''There is a fear of tomorrow and the future. People don't know what to do: should they live for today, tomorrow or yesterday?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A butcher dragged a sheep on Saturday in front of his shop in Tripoli. A small group of Libyan reformers is pushing for economic change.
 Boys at play Tuesday in a low-income apartment complex in Tripoli. The text on the Qaddafi poster says, ''Glory to the creator of great victories.'' (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); TRENDS (75%); POLITICS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RELIGION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Consultants

ORGANIZATION: Monitor Group

PERSON: Michael Slackman; Muammar El- (Col) Qaddafi

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Libya; Libya

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



24 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: The Big Meltdown

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: FEB. 27, 2008 

 BODY:
The great market meltdown of 2007 began exactly a year ago, with a 9 percent fall in the Shanghai market, followed by a 416-point slide in the Dow. But as in the previous global financial crisis, which began with the devaluation of Thailand's currency in the summer of 1997, it took many months before people realized how far the damage would spread.
 At the start, all sorts of implausible explanations were offered for the drop in U.S. stock prices. It was, some said, the fault of Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, as if his statement of the obvious -- that the housing slump could possibly cause a recession -- had been news to anyone. 
One Republican congressman blamed Representative John Murtha, claiming that his efforts to stop the ''surge'' in Iraq had somehow unnerved the markets.
 Even blaming events in Shanghai for what happened in New York was foolish on its face, except to the extent that the slump in China -- whose stock markets had a combined valuation of only about 5 percent of the U.S. markets' valuation -- served as a wake-up call for investors.
 The truth is that efforts to pin the stock decline on any particular piece of news are a waste of time. 
 Wise analysts remember the classic study that Robert Shiller of Yale carried out during the market crash of Oct. 19, 1987. His conclusion? ''No news story or rumor appearing on the 19th or over the preceding weekend was responsible.'' In 2007, as in 1987, investors rushed for the exits not because of external events, but because they saw other investors doing the same.
 What made the market so vulnerable to panic? It wasn't so much a matter of irrational exuberance -- although there was plenty of that, too -- as it was a matter of irrational complacency. 
 After the bursting of the technology bubble of the 1990s failed to produce a global disaster, investors began to act as if nothing bad would ever happen again. Risk premiums -- the extra return people demand when lending money to less than totally reliable borrowers -- dwindled away. 
 For example, in the early years of the decade, high-yield corporate bonds (formerly known as junk bonds) were able to attract buyers only by offering interest rates eight to 10 percentage points higher than U.S. government bonds. By early 2007, that margin was down to little more than two percentage points.
 For a while, growing complacency became a self-fulfilling prophecy. As the what-me-worry attitude spread, it became easier for questionable borrowers to roll over their debts, so default rates went down. Also, falling interest rates on risky bonds meant higher prices for those bonds, so those who owned such bonds experienced big capital gains, leading even more investors to conclude that risk was a thing of the past.
 Sooner or later, however, reality was bound to intrude. By early 2007, the collapse of the U.S. housing boom had brought with it widespread defaults on subprime mortgages -- loans to home buyers who fail to meet the strictest lending standards. Lenders insisted that this was an isolated problem, which wouldn't spread to the rest of the market or to the real economy. But it did.
 For a couple of months after the shock of Feb. 27, markets oscillated wildly, soaring on bits of apparent good news, then plunging again. But by late spring, it was clear that the self-reinforcing cycle of complacency had given way to a self-reinforcing cycle of anxiety. 
 There was still one big unknown: had large market players, hedge funds in particular, taken on so much leverage -- borrowing to buy risky assets -- that the falling prices of those assets would set off a chain reaction of defaults and bankruptcies? Now, as we survey the financial wreckage of a global recession, we know the answer.
 In retrospect, the complacency of investors on the eve of the crisis seems puzzling. Why didn't they see the risks?
 Well, things always seem clearer with the benefit of hindsight. At the time, even pessimists were unsure of their ground. For example, Paul Krugman concluded a column published on March 2, 2007, which described how a financial meltdown might happen, by hedging his bets, declaring that: ''I'm not saying that things will actually play out this way. But if we're going to have a crisis, here's how.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DEVALUATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Housing 

ORGANIZATION: Shanghai Stock Exchange

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); JOHN P MURTHA (54%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (73%); IRAQ (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



25 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
50 Years, Give or Take, and Still ShakingAt Po' Monkey's, a revamped sharecropper shack in Merigold, Miss., considered one of the last authentic Delta juke joints, the cover charge is $5, the owner is a farmer with more than 100 suits, and the strippers come on Mondays. PAGE A11Far-Reaching New Plan For Sexual PredatorsNew guidelines and procedures established by Gov. Eliot Spitzer and legislative leaders for confining sex offenders who have completed prison sentences go beyond detaining the most violent predators and would be one of the country's most far-reaching laws of its kind. 
 PAGE B1Web of Insider Trading Cited Federal authorities have charged 13 people in what they say is one of the most far-reaching insider trading schemes on Wall Street in decades. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1Iran-Saudi Summit Talks SetPresident Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran will visit Saudi Arabia this weekend for a summit meeting with King Abdullah on the conflicts in Lebanon and Iraq. PAGE A9Storm Kills 5 at SchoolFive people were killed and several others were trapped at a high school in Alabama after a storm swept through the Midwest and South, apparently spinning off tornadoes. The fierce winds were part of a 1,000-mile storm system that caused deaths in three states. PAGE A13Hunting a MurdererDavid Fincher's ''Zodiac,'' an account of the California serial killings and their investigation, revisits conventions of the genre. A review by Manohla Dargis. WEEKEND, PAGE E1Still Able to Move MarketsFor the second time in a week, Alan Greenspan, left, jolted stock markets by uttering the word ''recession'' in private remarks, upstaging efforts by Ben Bernanke, his successor at the Federal Reserve, to calm investors. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); SENTENCING (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (56%); BEN BERNANKE (54%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



26 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Man Is Convicted of Attempted Murder as Hate Crime in Village Rampage

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
An unemployed barber who went on a shooting rampage in an East Village wine bar more than four years ago, screaming, ''White people are going to burn tonight,'' was convicted yesterday of attempted murder as a hate crime. 
 The barber, Steven Johnson, 39, shot and wounded three people and sprayed several patrons with kerosene, threatening to set them on fire, at Bar Veloce on Second Avenue in June 2002.
He was disarmed after two women in the bar tackled him. 
 The women, Anne Hubbard, who was 34 at the time, and Ann-Margret Gidley, who was 23, were waitresses at the Gotham Bar and Grill. They had gathered at Bar Veloce with other Gotham employees for a farewell party for a waiter moving to Dallas, when Mr. Johnson burst in.
 Mr. Johnson shot Ms. Hubbard in the shin as she tackled him. Shoji Iso, the owner of a sushi restaurant three doors down, heard the commotion and was shot in the wrist when he peeked in the door of Bar Veloce to see what was going on.
 The jury of six women and six men in State Supreme Court in Manhattan convicted Mr. Johnson yesterday after four and a half days of deliberation. They rejected the contention of Mr. Johnson's defense lawyer, Michelle Gelernt, that he was suffering from delusions and therefore not legally responsible for what he did.
 It was the second trial for Mr. Johnson; a jury deadlocked in his first trial in November 2004.
 One of the jurors, Harry Donas, 45, an engineer, said after yesterday's verdict that the jury thought there were other reasons besides delusions to explain Mr. Johnson's behavior. Among them, Mr. Donas said, were that his female companion had died of AIDS, that he planned it two months earlier, and that he was losing his business.
 Attempted murder normally brings a sentence of up to 25 years in prison. But prosecutors said yesterday that Mr. Johnson faced a potentially longer sentence, depending on his prior record, because attempted murder as a hate crime is considered a more serious offense than attempted murder.
 Mr. Johnson has a criminal record for weapons and drug arrests going back to 1985. He showed no reaction to the verdict yesterday. Sentencing was scheduled for later this month.
 On the night of the shooting, Mr. Johnson -- armed with a samurai sword, three pistols, kerosene and plastic handcuffs -- took the train from his Williamsburg, Brooklyn, housing project into Manhattan, later telling the police that he went to the East Village in search of people partying, and that he wanted to kill as many white people as he could.
 The rampage began around 2 a.m., when he demanded a man's wallet and then shot him in the torso.
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said after the shooting that the attack was so bizarre that it could only have been the product of someone who was ''clearly deranged.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SENTENCING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); AIDS & HIV (65%); POLICE FORCES (63%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Hate Crimes; Decisions and Verdicts; Blacks; Mental Health and Disorders

ORGANIZATION: Bar Veloce (NYC)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis; Steven (Defendant) Johnson; Jonah Brander

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



27 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Dell Posts Sharp Declines in Earnings and Revenue as Laptop Sales Are Sluggish

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
Dell's inability to capture sales in the booming notebook computer market was reflected yesterday in its fourth-quarter financial results, which showed a sharp decline in income as well as an unusual drop in revenue. 
 Dell said net income fell by a third, to $673 million, or 30 cents a share, in its fourth quarter from $1.01 billion, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue fell 5.1 percent, to $14.4 billion, from $15.18 billion a year earlier. The last time revenue declined at Dell was in 2001, in the recession that followed the technology boom. 
 Wall Street analysts had been expecting Dell to report net income of 29 cents a share for the quarter that ended Feb. 2 even after it had warned in late January that earnings would be lower than analysts expected. 
 ''We are disappointed with the company's results, but what matters is our future plan of action,'' Michael S. Dell, the chairman and chief executive, said in a statement issued after the markets closed. ''We are systematically moving to increase efficiencies, improve execution and transform the company.''
 Dell said its results were unaudited, preliminary and subject to restatement. It has been trying to straighten out its financial reports as it is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission over an undisclosed accounting issue. The company, based in Round Rock, Tex., did not provide year-ago comparisons or include balance sheet information in reporting results for the quarter.
 The company said its internal investigations into the accounting problems had reduced income by $89 million, or 3 cents a share.
 Because the company has failed to file audited results to the S.E.C. for the last three quarters, Nasdaq has threatened to delist it. But Dell said that Nasdaq had given it until May 4 to submit information before taking any action.
 Dell also said that the sale of real estate added $36 million, or 1 cent a share, to earnings. The company said it did not pay $184 million in employee bonuses because of its poor performance, which added another 6 cents to earnings. 
 Wall Street analysts were not expecting a good quarter as evidence mounted that Dell's personal computer sales were flagging. IDC, the technology market analysis firm, reported that Dell's worldwide shipments in the fourth quarter dropped 8.4 percent while the overall market grew 8.7 percent. It also said Hewlett-Packard surpassed Dell as the world's biggest PC maker as Hewlett's shipments grew 23.8 percent in the final three months of 2006. 
 The problem for Dell was clearly its inability to attract consumers and business customers to its notebook computers. While the overall market for that type of portable computer boomed -- 20 percent growth in the United States alone, according to Gartner, a market analysis firm -- Dell had declining sales. Dell said revenue in the laptop segment fell 2 percent, to $3.8 billion, in the quarter on a 2 percent increase in shipments. Sales of desktop computers, which have slowed for all computer makers, declined 18 percent from a year earlier to $4.6 billion. 
 In contrast to Dell's troubles, Hewlett-Packard reported last week that revenue from personal computers increased 17 percent in the quarter, which included the holiday selling season. Hewlett said its operating profit margins on personal computers, including laptops, increased to 4.7 percent. 
 Historically, Dell has had operating margins that were higher than any computer maker except Apple because Dell sells computers directly to its customers and does not have to share profit with retailers. But over the last year, those margins have slipped to 5.5 percent from more than 8.2 percent. 
 A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, who had been among the first to warn of Dell's slipping margins, said he believed that Dell could return to higher margins, but that it would take 18 months to two years for a turnaround. ''We believe the stock is an attractive holding for patient investors,'' he said. 
 In the company's statement, Mr. Dell called for investor patience. ''We won't achieve our goals overnight, but we will achieve our goals,'' he said. ''We will be known again for strong operating and financial performance and a great experience for our customers. But it will take time to realize the future benefits of the improvements we are making today.''
 Mr. Dell, the company's founder who returned as chief executive two days before the quarter ended, will not have to bear direct responsibility for the lackluster performance in the fourth quarter. He has been focusing over the last month on assembling a new top management team, making outside hires and a few promotions. Eight top executives have resigned or retired as Mr. Dell made the changes. 
 Mr. Dell hired Ronald G. Garriques, a Motorola executive vice president in charge of that company's mobile devices division, to run Dell's global consumer division. Michael R. Cannon, the chief executive of Solectron, a big electronics manufacturing company, was hired to oversee parts procurement and manufacturing operations. 
 The company is counting on overseas growth, particularly in Germany, India and China. International shipments exceeded American shipments for the first time in the fourth quarter, Dell said. 
 In an effort to streamline operations, Mr. Dell has reduced the number of executives directly reporting to him to 12 from the 22 who had directly reported to Kevin B. Rollins, the former chief executive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael S. Dell, the chief of Dell, said it would take time for his company to regain the leading position in the personal computer business. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); ACCOUNTING (87%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (78%); DELISTINGS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Company Reports; Sales; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Dell Inc; Hewlett-Packard Co; Idc (Co); Dell Inc

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (89%) Damon Darlin; Michael S Dell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



28 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Paulson, Warning About Trade Barriers, Says Economy Is Slowing but Healthy

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said Thursday that the economy was slowing toward moderate and sustained growth, but warned that it could be derailed if trade barriers were raised. 
 ''Some politicians from both parties, reflecting what they are hearing from their constituents, are moving toward embracing further protectionism,'' Mr. Paulson said in remarks to the Economic Club of Washington.
''This is a worrisome trend,'' he added, and he pledged a renewed effort to make the case that ''economic isolationism'' potentially means fewer American jobs and lower living standards.
 Mr. Paulson said government data issued on Wednesday that revised economic growth downward to an annual rate of 2.2 percent for the final three months of 2006, from an initial estimate of 3.5 percent, should be seen as a positive move toward slower and sustained expansion.
 ''I am watching developments carefully, and I believe that the U.S. economy is healthy,'' said Mr. Paulson, who is the Bush administration's chief economic spokesman.
 But he cautioned that free trade was ''one of the cornerstones'' of American prosperity and acknowledged rising anger on Capitol Hill, particularly toward China.
 ''We are dissatisfied with the speed with which China is appreciating its currency, the value of which is not market-determined, and with China's intellectual property protections,'' Mr. Paulson said.
 Mr. Paulson is to travel to Japan, South Korea and China next week, and his speech previewed some of the themes he might address there.
 He said trade partners like Japan and Europe were showing signs of economic revival but needed to push harder on changes to their labor markets and to bolster growth to help shrink the United States trade gap.
 Mr. Paulson said the United States had a strong comparative advantage in services trade, including banking and other financial services, and must push other countries to let more American companies in -- a pitch he probably will renew in China.
 He urged Americans to spurn calls for trade protectionism, however, and noted that imports were pushing American companies to become more competitive and making more consumer goods available at cheaper prices.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. speaking yesterday at the Economic Club of Washington. He called the growing chorus for protectionism by some politicians ''a worrisome trend.'' (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); STATISTICS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Protectionism (Trade); Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Standard of Living

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Economic Club of Washington; European Union

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) China; Japan; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



29 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Can Lenders Suddenly Tighten Reins?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
When a financing technique is abused, the government has a way of riding in with rules to stop the practice. Unfortunately, it often arrives far too late to prevent the damage, and just in time for its intervention to make things worse.
 So it was in 1990, when junk-bond defaults were roiling the land, and there was outrage over the abuses that had allowed Michael Milken of Drexel Burnham to rule the financial markets. The regulators stepped in to make it much harder for insurance companies to buy junk -- thus providing the final impetus for junk-bond liquidations that sent prices to ridiculously low levels, and probably causing unnecessary bankruptcies. 
One can argue that the government rode in far too late during the Great Depression, when it adopted rules on margin loans to keep people from dangerous speculation in stocks. But those rules did no harm; by then no one much wanted to speculate in stocks, and the rules did little to change behavior. 
 There was no shortage of abuses in recent years, but the one taking center stage now involves subprime mortgages -- the risky home loans made to borrowers with weak credit records. There were many variations of those mortgages, but all had heavy fees and monthly payments that could soar beyond the ability of the borrower to pay.
 For years, the subprime mortgages seemed to work out fine, making the naysayers appear foolish. That was because it takes two things to produce a mortgage default: First, the borrower must be unable to meet the payments. Second, the home must be worth less than what is owed; otherwise it can be refinanced, or sold.
 There was no shortage of people willing to make such loans, in part because Freddie Mac, a government-chartered company, was willing to put up a large part of the money -- $184 billion at last count.
 Not that Freddie was taking risks, at least in its view. Many of these mortgages are packaged into securities with several pieces. Freddie signed up for the safe part -- the one that will pay off unless every other piece becomes worthless.
 Freddie knew the risks that were being taken by the borrowers. Richard F. Syron, Freddie's chairman and chief executive, told me this week that because of heavy fees and nonexistent down payments, refinancing would be possible only if the home was worth an additional 5 percent -- and if the borrower could still qualify for a loan.
 So why did Freddie help to finance loans that look wildly irresponsible now? Freddie had goals to put certain amounts of money into loans to low- and moderate-income buyers in underserved markets, and this was a way to do it.
 Now the world has changed. Subprime loans are defaulting, and those who make them are unable to find buyers at the prices they depended upon. Freddie has seen the light. After Sept. 1, it will buy no more of those pieces of securities on risky loans. Instead, it will finance loans directly, but only if borrowers can meet much tougher standards.
 In the old days, when a bank made a loan, it held on to it, and fixed rates meant that rising rates were not a threat. Defaults came from job losses and divorces, and bankers would sometimes show forbearance to avoid default. ''Houses, once they are vacant, go down in value,'' Mr. Syron said.
 Now, it is not clear who can negotiate, given the different interests of owners of various securities. Defaults are sure to rise.
 This is not, in other words, a really good time for the regulators to be getting tough. Three years ago would have been. Mr. Syron says, rightly, that if things get worse, letting those with bad credit keep borrowing will just get them into a deeper hole.
 This is happening as markets -- and Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman -- are worrying more about recession.
 ''There was a meaningful slowdown over the last three quarters of 2006,'' said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. ''However, there was not much of a slowdown in employment. Productivity and profits were the shock absorbers.''
 Productivity numbers will be revised down sharply this week. But Ben S. Bernanke, who now has Mr. Greenspan's old job, seems to scorn market signals. He fears that inflation will worsen as companies raise prices to restore margins.
 He might be better off to pay more attention to markets, and contemplate what he would do if companies start laying off people, providing yet another reason for mortgage defaults to rise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BONDS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INSURANCE (71%); LAYOFFS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Defaulting; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Freddie Mac; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (70%); MICHAEL MILKEN (56%); RICHARD F SYRON (51%) Floyd Norris; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



30 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Most Support U.S. Guarantee Of Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and JANET ELDER; Megan Thee, Marina Stefan and Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A majority of Americans say the federal government should guarantee health insurance to every American, especially children, and are willing to pay higher taxes to do it, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. 
 While the war in Iraq remains the overarching issue in the early stages of the 2008 campaign, access to affordable health care is at the top of the public's domestic agenda, ranked far more important than immigration, cutting taxes or promoting traditional values.
Only 24 percent said they were satisfied with President Bush's handling of the health insurance issue, despite his recent initiatives, and 62 percent said the Democrats were more likely to improve the health care system. 
 Americans showed a striking willingness in the poll to make tradeoffs to guarantee health insurance for all, including paying as much as $500 more in taxes a year and forgoing future tax cuts. 
 But the same divisions that doomed the last effort at creating universal health insurance, under the Clinton administration, are still apparent. Americans remain divided, largely along party lines, over whether the government should require everyone to participate in a national health care plan, and over whether the government would do a better job than the private insurance industry in providing coverage.
 Looking ahead to the presidential campaign, 36 percent of Americans polled said they had confidence in the ability of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, to ''make the right decisions on health care,'' while 49 percent said they were uneasy about her. 
 But Mrs. Clinton retained the confidence of nearly 6 in 10 Democrats on the issue, despite the politically devastating collapse 13 years ago of the national health initiative she helped develop early in her husband's presidency.
 The poll helps explain why health care already looms large in the presidential campaign, and in statehouses from California -- where Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has proposed a sweeping coverage plan -- to Massachusetts, now instituting a program passed under Mitt Romney, the former governor and current Republican presidential candidate. 
 John Edwards, the Democratic presidential candidate and former senator from North Carolina, recently unveiled his own attempt at a consensus plan, one that would require everyone to have insurance and require employers to provide it or pay into a fund that would do so. Nearly 4 in 10 said that was a good idea; nearly half said they were unsure.
 While Democrats are traditionally strong supporters of expanding health coverage, this survey found many Republicans and independents in agreement.
 ''I think everybody should have some kind of health care available to them,'' said Diane Manning, 66, of Vancouver, Wash., who described herself as an independent. 
 ''I don't necessarily think that socialized medicine is the answer, but I think everyone should have that right,'' said Mrs. Manning, who participated in the poll and agreed to a follow-up interview. ''And there are so many people that don't.''
 Nearly 47 million people in the United States, or more than 15 percent of the population, now go without health insurance, up 6.8 million since 2000.
 The poll also found overwhelming support behind the Children's Health Insurance Program, which covers many low- and moderate-income children and is up for renewal in Congress this year. Eighty-four percent of those polled said they supported expanding the current program to cover all uninsured children, now estimated at more than eight million. A similar majority said they thought the lack of health insurance for many children was a ''very serious'' problem for the country.
 The nationwide telephone poll of 1,281 adults was conducted Feb. 23- 27, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 The poll found Americans across party lines willing to make some sacrifice to ensure that every American has access to health insurance. Sixty percent, including 62 percent of independents and 46 percent of Republicans, said they would be willing to pay more in taxes. Half said they would be willing to pay as much as $500 a year more.
 Nearly 8 in 10 said they thought it was more important to provide universal access to health insurance than to extend the tax cuts of recent years; 18 percent said the tax cuts were more important.
 ''I wouldn't want to pay a lot of taxes, but if it was spread out and everyone paid their fair share, it would be fine,'' said Don Galvan, 50, a computer programmer from Ringwood, N.J., who considers himself an independent. ''Everybody should have some kind of medical coverage, in case they or their children get sick. Especially children.''
 Most participants said they were satisfied with the quality of their health care, but there was widespread concern about costs. Nearly half of those with insurance said an employer had cut back on benefits or required them to pay more for their benefits in recent years. 
 A quarter of those with insurance said someone in their household had gone without a medical test or treatment because insurance would not cover it. Six in 10 of those without insurance said someone in their household had gone without care because of the cost.
 More people now see guaranteeing health insurance as important than did so at the end of the Clinton efforts in 1996. At that time, 56 percent polled said it was the government's responsibility to do so, and 38 percent said it was not. In the current poll, 64 percent said the government should guarantee health insurance for all; 27 percent said it should not. 
 Moreover, an overwhelming majority in the current poll said the health care system needed fundamental change or total reorganization, just as they did in the early 1990s, when a deep recession and soaring health care costs galvanized the public and spurred the Clinton drive. 
 But now, as then, this concern did not translate into a consensus on what should replace it.
 One question offered a choice between the current system and a national health insurance program covering everyone, administered by the government and financed by taxpayers. Thirty-eight percent said they preferred the current system, 47 percent the government-run approach.
 Robert Blendon, an expert at Harvard on public opinion and health, said politicians had to find some compromise between these philosophical divisions on the role of government, which are deep-seated in American culture, or ''we're going to have the same train wreck we did before.'' 
 The Clinton plan, itself an attempt at a compromise, collapsed under attacks from an array of interests, including the insurance industry, which warned that the plan amounted to a big government takeover.
 Mr. Blendon noted that many politicians were seeking a blend between the private market and the government in their health plans.How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Feb. 23 through Feb. 27 with 1,281 adults throughout the United States. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population.
 Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. 
 The resultshave been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. Shifts in results between polls over time also have a larger sampling error. 
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Dr. Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls.
 No opinion: 7REPUBLICANSWilling: 33Willing but not if own taxes increase $500: 10Not willing: 49No opinion: 8DEMOCRATSWilling: 63Willing but not if own taxes increase $500: 10Not willing: 23No opinion: 4INDEPENDENTSWilling: 51Willing but not if own taxes increase $500: 9Not willing: 34No opinion: 6Totals may not add to 100 percent because of rounding.Based on nationwide telephone interviews with 1,281 adults, conducted Feb. 23-27 by The New York Times and CBS News .(pg. A15) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Americans on Health Care''A DOMESTIC PRIORITYDomestic policy most important for the President and Congress to concentrate on right now:TOTALReducing taxes: 11%Health insurance for all: 55Immigration laws: 19Traditional values: 13No opinion: 2REPUBLICANSReducing taxes: 14Health insurance for all: 29Immigration laws: 32Traditional values: 24No opinion: 2DEMOCRATSReducing taxes: 9Health insurance for all: 71Immigration laws: 12Traditional values: 6No opinion: 2INDEPENDENTSReducing taxes: 10Health insurance for all: 59Immigration laws: 19Traditional values: 10No opinion: 2Which is a more serious problem?TOTALKeeping health care costs down for average Americans: 31Providing health insurance for Americans who do not have any insurance: 65No opinion: 5REPUBLICANSKeeping health care costs down for average Americans: 44Providing health insurance for Americans who do not have any insurance: 52No opinion: 4DEMOCRATSKeeping health care costs down for average Americans: 27Providing health insurance for Americans who do not have any insurance: 70No opinion: 3INDEPENDENTSKeeping health care costs down for average Americans: 26Providing health insurance for Americans who do not have any insurance: 70No opinion: 4How serious a problem is it for the United States that many Americans do not have health insurance?TOTALVery serious: 70Somewhat: 25Not too or not at all: 4No opinionREPUBLICANSVery serious: 57Somewhat: 36Not too or not at all: 7No opinionDEMOCRATSVery serious: 83Somewhat: 15Not too or not at allNo opinionINDEPENDENTSVery serious: 71Somewhat: 26Not too or not at all: 3No opinionWILLING TO MAKE SACRIFICESShould the federal government guarantee health insurance for all Americans, even if that meant the cost of your own health insurance would go up, or is it not the government's responsibility?TOTALShould guarantee: 48Should guarantee but not if own insurance went up: 11Not government's responsibility: 27No opinion: 13REPUBLICANSShould guarantee: 30Should guarantee but not if own insurance went up: 9Not government's responsibility: 52No opinion: 9DEMOCRATSShould guarantee: 63Should guarantee but not if own insurance went up: 12Not government's responsibility: 13No opinion: 12INDEPENDENTSShould guarantee: 49Should guarantee but not if own insurance went up: 12Not government's responsibility: 22No opinion: 17Would you be willing to pay higher taxes so that all Americans have health insurance, even if that meant you had to pay $500 more a year in taxes?TOTALWilling: 49Willing but not if own taxes increase $500: 10Not willing: 34 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); RANKINGS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); IMMIGRATION (56%) Medicine and Health; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Public Opinion; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children and Youth; Election Issues; Taxation; Medicine and Health

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%) Robin Toner; Janet Elder; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



31 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The Path to Citizenship

 BODY:
On Wednesday, Congress took its first crack at immigration reform since the great nothing of 2006. The Senate Judiciary Committee invited Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez to testify on the issue. With a new Congress and a new comprehensive immigration bill expected to be introduced in the Senate within days, the hearing could have been the first spark of a rejuvenated campaign by an alliance of Congressional Democrats, moderate Republicans and the Bush administration to finally solve a problem that has festered for too long. 
 It wasn't. That's because both Mr. Chertoff and Mr. Gutierrez slunk away from a central pillar of comprehensive reform: a path to citizenship that would give illegal immigrants -- the ones who wait and prove they deserve it -- the chance to participate fully and proudly in the life of this country.
Polls show that most Americans would let illegal immigrants get right with the law and become Americans, too, if they have clean records, learn English and pay back taxes and fines. Weighed against keeping the shadowy status quo or deporting 12 million people, a citizenship path strikes them as a proper blend of justice and common sense. Last year's stalled Senate bill took this approach, and it will surely be central to any new legislation. 
 But the idea sticks in the craws of the members of a vocal, mostly Republican faction that wants every door to opportunity for illegal immigrants shut and locked, except the one marked ''guest workers.'' Those they would keep because they don't mind having an underclass of docile, ill-paid foreigners who do America's dirtiest jobs and then go home. 
 There is a place for some temporary workers in the American economy. But such programs are highly prone to abuse and are not a solution for the vast numbers of illegal immigrants already here. 
 Mr. Gutierrez and Mr. Chertoff enthusiastically talked up guest-worker programs on Wednesday, but pointedly left citizenship off the table. They could have been talking tactically, working at President Bush's behest to soothe the passions of skeptical Republicans. But there must be a limit to the accommodations given to anti-amnesty ideologues. If Mr. Bush has the stomach to fight for the real reform he says he wants, he is hiding it well.
 Mr. Bush said nothing about a path to citizenship in his State of the Union address in January. If he is too weakened to stand up for comprehensive reform, then Democrats and Republicans in Congress need to unite and do it for him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%) Immigration and Refugees; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants; Citizenship

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (90%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (89%) George W (Pres) Bush; Michael (Sec) Chertoff

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



32 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: A Suddenly Convenient Truth

 BODY:
We would like to believe that the Bush administration has finally figured out how dangerous and counterproductive it is to hype intelligence -- and that that's why officials are admitting they're not sure North Korea ever got very far with a secret uranium-based nuclear program. But we doubt it. 
 It was just last month that intelligence officials, with their bosses' clear blessings, were insisting that Iran's leaders had personally ordered the smuggling of especially lethal roadside bombs into Iraq. At least they did until the Pentagon's top general admitted that no one knew who in Iran was really calling those shots, and President Bush announced that it didn't matter anyway.
So we suspect that this week's confessions of doubt about North Korea had less to do with a sudden burst of candor than the fact that Pyongyang has agreed to readmit nuclear inspectors -- who probably won't be able to find the active uranium enrichment program the administration has been alleging for more than four years. Add to that the White House's eagerness for a diplomatic win in these bleak times -- and its insistence that a nuclear deal cannot go ahead if the North is believed to be hiding things -- and you understand why the White House might find this truth so convenient. 
 Late may be better than never, but it isn't nearly enough to make up for the damage caused. And we haven't even raised the issue of Iraq and its long-gone weapons.
 Let's be clear. The North Koreans had and have an illicit nuclear arms program. They tested a device from their plutonium-based program last October. And Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, has admitted that North Korea bought some 20 centrifuges -- useful only for enriching uranium -- from Abdul Qadeer Khan's nuclear black market. 
 The problem is that the Bush administration eagerly spun those 20 centrifuges into an industrial-scale enrichment program, and then used it as an excuse to scuttle a Clinton-era deal to close down the North's plutonium-based weapons program. Four years later, the North set off that test. 
 And while we are pleased that the administration has finally managed to negotiate an agreement to start shutting down the North's nuclear complex, there is no guarantee that Pyongyang will ever give up its weapons.
 If that's not bad enough, consider some frightening truths. There is no doubt that Iran is moving ever closer to mastering the skills it will need to produce the fuel for a nuclear weapon -- and blithely defying the Security Council's demand that it stop. But even America's closest European allies have little stomach for a showdown with Tehran, while Russia and China have strong economic incentives to look the other way. Which means that Washington is the only one left out there to warn the world about the dangers of a nuclear-capable Iran. 
 Make no mistake: there are real and present dangers out there. But who still believes warnings from this White House?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CENTRIFUGES (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%) Editorials; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Uranium

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (77%); IRAN (72%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



33 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Bush Notes Frustration in Gulf Coast Recovery

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, March 1 

 BODY:
President Bush acknowledged on Thursday that many Gulf Coast residents remained frustrated with the slowness of rebuilding after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, but said, ''Times are changing for the better.''
 On a trip inspecting new housing rising from the rubble in Mississippi and Louisiana, Mr. Bush visited homeowners, met local officials and promised to speed the recovery of areas flooded 18 months ago by the hurricanes.
It was Mr. Bush's 14th trip to the Gulf Coast since Hurricane Katrina made landfall on Aug. 29, 2005. 
 At his first stop in New Orleans, Mr. Bush had lunch with state and local officials at Li'l Dizzy's Cafe on the outskirts of the French Quarter. In brief remarks before the meal, Mr. Bush noted concerns about the rebuilding delays. 
 ''I fully understand that there are frustrations, and I want to know the frustrations,'' he said. ''To the extent we can help, we'll help.''
 Earlier in Long Beach, Miss., near Gulfport and Biloxi, Mr. Bush joined Gov. Haley Barbour in a walking tour of houses that had been rebuilt with help from the federal government under the Community Development Block Grant program.
 Though some members of Congress from both parties have said the federal government should do more to accelerate the recovery, Mr. Bush said he was impressed and inspired by the progress he saw. 
 But at a meeting with local officials in Biloxi, he said: ''I fully understand that there's still work to be done. There's a continued frustration with the slowness of federal response at times.''
 Wayne M. Baquet, owner of Li'l Dizzy's restaurant, said: ''It's great that the president came to New Orleans. It's great that he's addressing the problems here. We may have 10,000 people living in trailers. That's ridiculous.''
 Business is good, said Mr. Baquet, brother of Dean Baquet, who was recently named Washington bureau chief of The New York Times. 
 ''We need the middle class back,'' Mr. Baquet said. ''We lost a lot of our middle class.''
 On his first visit after the storm in 2005, the president recalled, he saw ''piles of rubble, literally debris stacked upon debris.''
 Mr. Bush said he had always had faith that he would see houses being built on the storm-battered coast.
 ''The federal government's role has been to write checks,'' he said, and the role of state officials is ''to expedite the federal money to the local folks.''
 Mr. Bush said: ''I told the people that I would work with Congress to write a $110 billion check for the people of Louisiana and Mississippi, and that check has been written. Now it's incumbent upon us to get the money into people's hands.'' 
 State and local officials, particularly in Louisiana, have been criticized for not transferring federal rebuilding money into the hands of homeowners more quickly.
 Sometimes, Mr. Bush said, ''it's hard to see progress when you're living close to the scene.'' But as a visitor, he said, he detects a resurgence, a renewal, because ''the spirit of the people down here is strong.''
 Mississippians said their recovery had been hindered by the high cost of insurance for residential and commercial structures and by the need to raise buildings onto piers or stilts to comply with federal construction standards in flood zones.
 Some elected officials saw Mr. Bush's trip as an effort to make amends for the fact that he said nothing about the recovery in his State of the Union address on Jan. 23.
 ''It was a glaring omission,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, who stayed in Washington for Senate business. ''Much of the vast devastation left by Katrina and Rita remains, and the job of recovery is far from finished.'' 
 One purpose of the trip, Mr. Bush said, was ''to tell the people here in the Gulf Coast that we still think about them in Washington.'' Another purpose, he said, was to show taxpayers ''what their money has done to help revitalize'' the region.
 Nellie Partridge, 84, was sitting on her porch in Long Beach when Mr. Bush arrived. ''There's no telling who's going to show up,'' Mr. Bush said as he arrived with Mr. Barbour. 
 Ms. Partridge hugged the president and told him that he was ''one of my favorite people.'' 
 Mr. Bush said Washington had ''obligated,'' or made available for specific purposes, $86 billion of the $110 billion but that just $53 billion had been spent.
 ''There is money in the pipeline,'' Mr. Bush said. ''If it is stuck because of unnecessary bureaucracies, our responsibility at the federal, state and local level is to unstick it.''
 Donald E. Powell, the federal coordinator of Gulf Coast rebuilding, was asked about the pace. ''We all have a sense of urgency,'' Mr. Powell said. He noted progress like children in school, ''help wanted'' signs and open hotels and restaurants. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm); Floods; Levees; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HALEY BARBOUR (59%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BILOXI, MS, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf Coast (US); Louisiana; Mississippi; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



34 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Pension Fund as Tollkeeper: A Way Around the Skeptics

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and DAVID W. CHEN; Jonathan Berr and Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At first glance, directors of pension funds may seem ill equipped to run toll roads, particularly those as vast as the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway. After all, what do investment managers know about collecting tolls, plowing snow and paving highways?
 That unconventional idea, though, has attracted the attention of lawmakers in Trenton, who have already pricked trial balloons from Gov. Jon S. Corzine on raising money by leasing the roads to a private entity. An in-house sale of sorts of the toll roads to the state's $80 billion pension fund could help cut into the tens of billions of dollars of debt the state now holds.
By law and intent, fund managers are supposed to invest prudently, primarily in stocks and bonds, with a sprinkling of ''alternative investments'' like real estate thrown in. But in many ways, toll roads fit the profile of what pension fund managers look for: assets that generate large amounts of cash, grow at stable rates for long periods and have little risk of bankruptcy. 
 Increasing tolls now would not allow the governor to meet his goals because the money raised would be returned to the New Jersey Turnpike Authority to be used for highway improvements. By selling the turnpike, however, the state could in effect get a windfall from the pension fund, which in turn would recoup the purchase price by raising the tolls.
 Pension funds, which must pay retirees benefits far into the future, like investments that yield a high rate of return for a very long time, but those types of investments are scarce, said David Morton, a partner at Rocaton Investment Advisors, a consultant to pension funds. ''Fixed income doesn't fill the need, equities are risky, so infrastructure like toll roads looks very good by comparison.''
 Having the pension fund run the toll roads could also solve an increasingly thorny image problem for Governor Corzine, whose floating of the private-lease idea has mainly been met by skepticism from lawmakers in both parties who are worried that tolls would rise too high too fast.
 By contrast, if the state's pension fund ran the toll roads, state government would retain control of a New Jersey asset and politicians could continue to exert some influence over toll increases. Sure, the pension fund would probably need to increase tolls to meet its goal of an 8.25 percent return on all investments. But the toll increase would probably be less than if the roads were leased to private investors whose only motivation is generating higher returns for their clients and themselves.
 Philip D. Murphy, a retired Goldman Sachs executive who was the chairman of a pension task force in 2005, said he would need to be assured that any pension fund deal would have a net positive cash flow, and that the assets were professionally managed.
 But Mr. Murphy said he admired ''the creative thought'' behind the idea, saying, ''It's quite intriguing and worthy of consideration.'' The public, he added, would probably find comfort in knowing that the roads would be owned by ''someone who is part of the family as opposed to someone who's going to be an alien investor.''
 While lawmakers were just starting to discuss the idea in earnest in the past few days, Assemblyman Wilfredo Caraballo said he had been working for several weeks on a bill to study such a transaction. He noted that pension funds in other countries, like Spain and Australia, had made similar transactions. And like most legislators, Mr. Caraballo said that keeping the turnpike in the public's hands was critical.
 Even State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, who introduced a bill last month to authorize the state to negotiate a lease deal with private investors, endorsed the idea of letting the pension fund take over the toll roads.
 It is ''consistent with the fiduciary responsibility of the pension fund to make investments that help New Jersey's economy by reducing debt through a solid long-term investment, and contributing to the overall economic health of New Jersey,'' he said.
 A spokesman for the state treasurer, Thomas Vincz, said the treasurer is ''still weeks away from making any recommendations to the governor'' on the potential sale or lease of assets, including the highways. He added that ''we have not considered any alternative that would give a controlling interest in a state asset to the pension fund.''
 Mr. Corzine said on Wednesday that the plan is ''all theoretical at this stage,'' adding that it would not be released formally until it has ''its i's dotted and t's crossed.''
 But the governor, a former co-chairman of the investment bank Goldman Sachs, laid out some options that clearly show the notion is under detailed discussion. 
 ''You could sell it to the pension system, you know, and you could finance the whole thing,'' he said, ''but that'd be too much concentration of one risk in the pension system. I wouldn't approve of that.''
 A better alternative, he suggested, would be ''a stake-holding structure, an equity holding, partial ownership -- you could be a partner in the process.'' 
 He added: ''There are lots of different ways to do it. We're still in the stage of thinking things through.''
 Despite the notion's quick embrace in some corners of the State House, hurdles remain. The Turnpike Authority is endowed with the power to collect tolls and issue bonds, and the Legislature would have to rewrite statutes to let another party take over those functions, something that might entail lengthy negotiations.
 The pension plan also cannot hold ''real assets'' like bridges and roads worth more than 7 percent of the value of the fund, currently about $77 billion; financial analysts estimate that the Turnpike Authority and the Atlantic City Expressway could be worth as much as $30 billion. That could force the pension fund to team up with other investors to buy the toll roads, as Mr. Corzine suggested.
 Pension experts are also wary of any pension fund taking over toll roads to solve political concerns -- in this case, trying to avoid leasing the roads to private parties.
 ''The prevailing standard for managing pension assets should be the prudent investors' perspective,'' said Keith Brainard, the director of research at the National Association of State Retirement Administrators. ''The fund is not a dumping ground for investments with ulterior motives.''
 Indeed, Republicans accused Governor Corzine of viewing the pension fund as a potential pot of money to be tapped. 
 ''This whole idea reeks of the kind of Wall Street wizardry that brought us junk bonds and Enron,'' said Tom Wilson, chairman of the State Republican Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (94%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BONDS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%) Ken Belson; David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



35 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 822 words

PERSON: Herman Brix

HEADLINE: Herman Brix, 100, Athlete And a 'Cultured' Tarzan

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Herman Brix, who played football in the Rose Bowl, set world shot-put records and portrayed Tarzan in the movies before becoming a dapper Hollywood leading man, died on Saturday in Los Angeles.
 He was 100, but for 34 years he had been Bruce Bennett, the name he took to pursue a classier film career than the one he had begun with Tarzan's clarion howl.
He died of complications of a broken hip, his son, Christopher, told The Associated Press. 
 The requisite jungle scream aside, Mr. Brix imbued the role of Tarzan with a dignity that around six monosyllabic predecessors and around nine successors may have lacked.
 Edgar Rice Burroughs, the writer who created the character in 1912, chose Mr. Brix as an alternative to what he considered an objectionably crude interpretation of his character in the popular Johnny Weissmuller films. To Burroughs, wearing a loin cloth was scant excuse for impoliteness, particularly since Tarzan was actually a British lord lost in the jungle as an infant.
 So when Mr. Brix's Tarzan is discovered by explorers in the 1935 movie ''The New Adventures of Tarzan,'' he intones: ''Why, yes, I'm Tarzan, also known as Lord Greystoke. How may I help you?''
 The truth is that Mr. Brix had been a leading candidate for the Tarzan part in the MGM 1932 hit ''Tarzan the Ape Man,'' but lost the role to Mr. Weissmuller after he broke his shoulder. Though Mr. Brix made two Tarzan movies for the independent production company with which Mr. Burroughs was associated, neither came close to challenging the success of the MGM versions.
 Mr. Brix's injury also cost him a chance to qualify for the 1932 Olympics. In the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam, he broke the world shot-put record on his first toss. He then gave a pep talk to his teammate John Kuck, who was inspired to surpass the new world's record with one of his own. He won a gold medal, Mr. Brix a silver one.
 In the Rose Bowl of 1926, Mr. Brix played left tackle for the University of Washington against the University of Alabama. The Huskies lost the first Rose Bowl to be broadcast on radio, by a score of 20-19.
 One of Alabama's players, Johnny Mack Brown, became a movie star. So did Mr. Brix. After abandoning the name under which he had become a famous athlete, he acted in 113 films, including playing a lone-wolf gold prospector in ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre'' with Humphrey Bogart. He beat out Ronald Reagan for the part.
 Mr. Brix became known for making movies with strong women. In ''Mildred Pierce,'' he played Joan Crawford's ex-husband. In ''A Stolen Life,'' he acted with Bette Davis; in ''Nora Prentiss,'' with Ann Sheridan; and in ''The Man I Love, '' with Ida Lupino.
 Herman Brix was born on May 19, 1906, in Tacoma, Wash., where his well-to-do family was one of the first to have indoor plumbing. He grew up playing sports, but also had the lead role in the school production of ''The Pirates of Penzance.''
 ''There was always a fight between the music director and the athletic coaches as to who was going to get my time after school,'' he said in an interview with a high-school alumni publication.
 After graduating from the University of Washington in 1928 with an economics major, Mr. Brix was for several years usually the best shot-putter in the United States, and often in the world. 
 Mr. Brix became acquainted with Douglas Fairbanks Sr., who patronized youth sports. After quitting shot-putting, he worked at 17 different jobs, from logging to insurance salesman, before Mr. Fairbanks persuaded him to become an actor.
 As Tarzan, he followed two other Olympians, both swimmers, who had played the part, Mr. Weissmuller and Buster Crabbe. Mr. Brix's Tarzan was filmed in Guatemala, not on a Hollywood lot, and he contracted an ailment that lingered for years.
 A single sharpshooter guarded him from crocodiles as he swung over a pool on a vine. He landed on rocks on the opposite shore. That injury lingered for years, too.
 Gabe Essou, in his book ''Tarzan of the Movies,'' said that Mr. Brix's was perhaps the only accurate portrayal of the literary Tarzan. He wrote: ''He was mannered, cultured, soft-spoken, a well-educated English lord who spoke several languages, and didn't grunt.''
 After ''Tarzan and the Green Goddess'' in 1938, Mr. Brix realized he was hopelessly typecast and changed his name. By 1947, accounts of his acting described him as a specialist in intense, emotional roles.
 In an interview with the University of Washington Alumni Magazine in 2002, Mr. Brix said his proudest accomplishment was his 67-year marriage to Jeanette, who died in 2000. In addition to his son, Christopher, he is survived by his daughter, Christina Katich; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
 Mr. Brix in his later years pursued business interests. At 96, he parachuted from a plane 10,000 feet in the air. In 2002, Mike Chapman wrote his biography. The title: ''Please Don't Call Me Tarzan.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herman Brix, with his 1928 shot. (Photo by Chris Martinez/Associated Press, 1993) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); FILM (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (67%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (63%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

RONALD REAGAN (79%) Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Sports

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



36 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Even Now, Greenspan's Words Resound Globally

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
They are marketed as ''intimate conversations'' with Alan Greenspan, and groups pay about $150,000 to hear his economic outlook.
 But on Thursday, for the second time this week, these private chats went public, jolting financial markets around the world and upstaging Ben S. Bernanke, Mr. Greenspan's successor as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
First on Monday and then again on Thursday, Mr. Greenspan upset stock markets merely by uttering the word ''recession'' and saying that one might but probably would not occur by the end of this year. 
 Few people have the power to move markets like a Fed chairman. Except, maybe, a retired Fed chairman. Mr. Greenspan's use of the R-word helped push down the Dow Jones industrial average by about 200 points on Thursday morning, though shares later recovered and closed only slightly lower for the day.
 The tone if not the substance of the comments seemed to conflict with, and even undermine, Mr. Bernanke's soothing message on Wednesday that the economy still seemed poised for ''moderate'' growth and perhaps even a slight acceleration later this year.
 It also raised several questions. Did the old Fed chairman, who has been hailed as the maestro of the economy, disagree with the new Fed chairman? For a man who had worked assiduously to keep markets calm while he ran the Fed, why was Mr. Greenspan now using an incendiary word-bomb? At almost 81, did he secretly miss the limelight? Or was he trying to build up advance interest in his new book?
 In some ways. the attention given to Mr. Greenspan's remarks reflects the contrast in personal styles between him and Mr. Bernanke. To many investors, Mr. Greenspan, after 18 years of running the Fed, has star status, and remains the ultimate authority on economic issues. Mr. Bernanke, by contrast, is still an unknown. Where Mr. Greenspan had a fondness for colorful phrases, from ''irrational exuberance'' to the ''frothiness'' of the housing market, Mr. Bernanke has brought a plain-speaking openness that is often easier to understand but less catchy.
 The difference in style reflects a deeper difference: where Mr. Greenspan guarded his autonomy as a decision-maker and bucked conventional wisdom, Mr. Bernanke has tried to make Fed policy less personalized and more grounded in consensus.
 Fed officials declined to comment on the remarks, but noted that Mr. Greenspan has avoided any comment about monetary policy, speaking only about the economy itself. 
 To be clear: Mr. Greenspan did not, as some analysts incorrectly inferred, predict that a recession was imminent. In fact, he said few forecasters anticipated one. But he did caution that the United States appears to be at the end of an expansion and that such times usually bring with them the seeds of a recession. 
 His first comments were on Monday, in a private chat over satellite to an investor group in Hong Kong. On Wednesday, he tried to clarify his views while speaking to a group in Tokyo.
 ''By the end of the year, there is a possibility, but not a probability, of the U.S. moving into a recession,'' Mr. Greenspan was quoted as saying by Bloomberg News, which based its report on interviews with people who attended the CLSA Japan Forum in Tokyo. 
 Several analysts said Mr. Greenspan's comments, if read in context, did not conflict nearly as much as they seemed with the current Fed's view. But the comments highlight the delicate line Mr. Greenspan has drawn in defining his post-Fed activities. He has adamantly refused to comment on monetary policy, saying that a Fed chairman has enough problems without being second-guessed by his predecessor.
 But he has also restarted his earlier career as an economic consultant and forecaster, speaking to groups of institutional investors, on average, twice a week for a fee of up to $150,000. He is represented by the Washington Speakers Bureau, whose clients include celebrities and political figures like Colin L. Powell, the former secretary of state.
 On Thursday, Mr. Greenspan was in Palm Springs for a talk to another conference. He has spoken in cities around the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia, often to institutional investors at conferences sponsored by banks or trade associations. 
 According to the Speakers Bureau, Mr. Greenspan offers ''thoughtful, in-depth question-and-answer sessions.'' The sessions are off-limits to the media, and recording devices are prohibited. But in practice, word gets out, and it can have a big impact. 
 Acquaintances of Mr. Greenspan say he has been puzzled by the reaction to his comments. In his comments on Monday, he restated his long-held caution that investors are in danger of being too complacent and too confident that the benign mix of low inflation and steady economic growth would continue. When asked whether he expected a recession later this year, Mr. Greenspan said it was impossible to rule out the possibility but went on to say that most forecasters did not expect one.
 Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle ABN Amro in Chicago and president of the National Association for Business Economics, said Mr. Greenspan's comments were consistent with a consensus.
 The National Association for Business Economics' most recent survey of members found an average prediction that the United States economy would expand 2.4 percent in 2007 and that the chances of a recession were about 15 percent -- not probable, but not impossible.
 Some analysts were less charitable, speculating that Mr. Greenspan had intentionally allowed himself to sound more provocative in order to increase his appeal on the lecture circuit and perhaps build excitement for his new book. The book, for which he is to be paid about $8 million, is due out in September and is to be both a memoir and a treatise on economic issues.
 To be sure, Mr. Greenspan is hardly the only former Fed official to offer his views on the economy. Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor, resumed his career as a forecaster for Macroeconomic Advisers and now offers clients detailed interpretation of the Fed's thinking.
 But Paul A. Volcker, who preceded Mr. Greenspan as Fed chairman, has been silent on Fed policy and has only rarely offered his views on the economy.
 Mr. Greenspan, according to people who have spoken with him, is intent on remaining active as an economic consultant and forecaster. It is what he has done for more than 50 years, he has told people, and he sees no reason his role as a former Fed chairman should bar him from continuing to earn money at it once again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BONDS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); BEN BERNANKE (89%) Alan Greenspan; Ben S Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



37 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Orphan No More, California Enjoys Electoral Muscle

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
In the last few weeks, Rudolph W. Giuliani surveyed tractors in rural California, Senator Barack Obama delivered his hope speech to enthusiastic Angelenos and Senator John McCain made earnest remarks about global warming while standing at the side of California's governor.
 While the 2008 presidential campaign is well under way in traditional bellwether states, candidates are also making an early and furious run at voters in this delegate-rich but, in past primary seasons, generally irrelevant state. 
 As lawmakers prepare to move the state's presidential primary to Feb. 5 from June, campaigning here has taken an uncharacteristic urgency, with presidential aspirants from both parties jockeying to make an impression on Californians beyond the state's big donors who have long been a financial mainstay of presidential campaigns.
 On Friday, John Edwards is to meet with farm workers in Fresno. On Saturday, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is to appear with the mayor of Los Angeles. And next week, Mr. Giuliani plans another campaign swing.
 ''The fact that Barack Obama did a large-scale rally in Los Angeles already speaks to the change in the role California has,'' said Mr. Obama's press secretary, Dan Pfeiffer, who worked for Al Gore's presidential campaign in 2000. ''California has always played an important role, but this time it will be the voters as much, if not more, than the donors who will matter.''
 California will be joining a bevy of other states slated to hold primaries or caucuses on Feb. 5, turning that day into a national primary of sorts and complicating the political calculus for candidates. 
 Just how big a role California ends up playing in picking the winners of the Republican and Democratic primaries will probably be shaped by finances and the results from the first primaries and caucuses, in January. The enormous cost of doing business in the state, the country's most populous, will lead some candidates to put their money into places like Arizona, New Mexico and other states with a February primary.
 Still, political analysts and strategists from both parties say, California has the potential to alter the dynamics of the primary season in ways that could resonate in the general election. The state's sheer size, its method for apportioning Republican delegates and its large media market could combine to give Californians a voice they have not enjoyed in a generation.
 ''California could play a huge role,'' said Matt David, a spokesman for the campaign of Mr. McCain, a Republican. ''With that number of delegates, things could be decided on one day. Californians can expect to see a lot of Senator McCain this primary season.''
 For Democrats, a big victory in California would probably cement the place of a front-runner, no matter his or her showing in other early primary states, some party officials say.
 Bob Mulholland, a state Democratic Party official, said the party had been getting calls from the presidential campaigns seeking speaking roles at its state convention next month. ''If our primary was in June of 2008,'' Mr. Mulholland said, ''I would bet the candidates would be in Iowa or New Hampshire or Nevada the last weekend of April 2007.''
 The most interesting effect may be on Republicans. The state's Republican Party apportions the entire three-delegate pot from each of the state's 53 Congressional districts to the biggest vote getter in the district. The Democratic Party gives any candidate who gets over 15 percent of the vote in a district at least one delegate. 
 As such, a nimble Republican who focuses all of his attention in a few crucial districts has the opportunity to pick up a fair number of delegates. ''We can put California into play,'' said Patrick Dorinson, a spokesman for the state's Republican Party. 
 The new interest in California thrills local officials. Many have long wished for candidates to spend a fraction of what they take out of the state in campaign donations to woo California voters and talk about issues like water, economic growth.
 It may also turn Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger -- a Republican who is barred from running for president because he is a naturalized citizen -- into an influential player in the Republican scramble for votes.
 ''Governor Schwarzenegger is tired of candidates using California like their rich uncle, looking for handouts without any expectation,'' said Adam Mendelsohn, the governor's communications director. 
 In a poll taken in mid-January by the American Research Group, Mr. Giuliani held the lead among Republican voters in the state with 33 percent, followed by Newt Gingrich, the former congressman, and Mr. McCain, with 19 percent and 18 percent, respectively. Among Democrats, Mrs. Clinton was favored by 36 percent of those polled, followed by Mr. Obama with 33 percent. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 California officials have long tried to figure out how to make the state relevant to the presidential nominating process. But the change in the primary schedule, expected to be approved by the state's Legislature next week, stems in large part from a separate agenda: the desire of some Democratic lawmakers to hold on to their jobs.
 The Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez, and the Senate president pro tem, Don Perata, both Democrats, are seeking to alter the state's term limit laws with an initiative that would appear on the new February primary ballot. The measure, if passed, would allow the legislators to run again in June for seats they are now set to give up because of term limits.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, who has said he would sign a measure moving the primary to February, has also nominally agreed to get behind the ballot initiative. But in return, he wants legislators to back his proposal to create a commission to develop plans to redraw legislative district lines, a subject of fierce debate and a failed ballot initiative in 2005.
 Leaders and consultants from both parties said that, on balance, the new attention for California was good for the state.
 ''It is important to have candidates who actually come and compete in California,'' said Jim Brulte, a former state senator and Republican leader. ''When you come and campaign in California, you learn about California. And when you learn about California, that makes you a better president for California.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rudolph W. Giuliani addressing a Republican meeting last month in Sacramento. Mr. Giuliani plans a swing in California next week. (Photo by David Paul Morris/Getty Images)
Senator Barack Obama speaking to a campaign rally last month on a basketball court at the Rancho Cienega Sports Complex in Los Angeles. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Senator John McCain toured refineries and ports in Southern California last month by helicopter. (Pool photo by Kevin Chang) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FARM LABOR (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%) Presidential Election of 2008; Primaries and Caucuses; Finances; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



38 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Early Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 3233 words

PERSON: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.

HEADLINE: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., a Partisan Historian of Power, Is Dead at 89

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN; Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.

 BODY:
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian whose more than 20 books shaped discussions for two generations about America's past and who himself was a provocative, unabashedly liberal partisan, most notably while serving in the Kennedy White House, died Wednesday night in Manhattan. He was 89.
 His death, at New York Downtown Hospital, was caused by a heart attack he suffered earlier during a family dinner at Bobby Van's Steakhouse in Lower Manhattan, his son Stephen said.
Twice awarded the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award, Mr. Schlesinger exhaustively examined the administrations of two prominent presidents, Andrew Jackson and Franklin Delano Roosevelt, against a vast background of regional and economic rivalries. He argued that strong individuals like Jackson and Roosevelt could bend history.
 The notes he took for President John F. Kennedy, for the president's use in writing his history, became, after Mr. Kennedy's assassination, grist for Mr. Schlesinger's own account, ''A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House.'' It won both the Pulitzer and a National Book Award in 1966. 
 His 1978 book on the president's brother, ''Robert Kennedy and His Times,'' lauded the subject as the most politically creative man of his time. But he acknowledged that Robert had played a larger role in trying to overthrow President Fidel Castro of Cuba than Mr. Schlesinger had acknowledged in ''A Thousand Days.'' 
 Mr. Schlesinger worked on both brothers' presidential campaigns, and some critics suggested he had trouble separating history from sentiment. Gore Vidal called ''A Thousand Days'' a political novel, and many noted that the book ignored the president's sexual wanderings. Others were unhappy that he told so much, particularly in asserting that the president had been unhappy with his secretary of state, Dean Rusk.
 Mr. Schlesinger saw life as a walk through history. He wrote that he could not stroll down Fifth Avenue without wondering how the street and the people on it would have looked a hundred years ago.
 ''He is willing to argue that the search for an understanding of the past is not simply an aesthetic exercise but a path to the understanding of our own time,'' Alan Brinkley, the historian, wrote.
 Mr. Schlesinger wore a trademark dotted bowtie, showed an acid wit and had a magnificent bounce to his step. He was a lifelong aficionado of perfectly blended martinis. Between marathons of writing as much as 5,000 words a day, he was a fixture at Georgetown salons when Washington was clubbier and more elitist. In New York, he was a man about town, whether at Truman Capote's famous parties or escorting Jacqueline Kennedy to the movies.
 In the McCarthy era and beyond, he was a leader of anti-Communist liberals and a fierce partisan. He called for the impeachment of Richard M. Nixon, which never happened, and just as passionately denounced that of President Bill Clinton, when it did.
 In his last book, ''War and the American Presidency,'' published in 2004, Mr. Schlesinger challenged the foundations of the foreign policy of President Bush, calling the invasion of Iraq and its aftermath ''a ghastly mess.'' He said the president's curbs on civil liberties would have the same result as similar actions throughout American history.
 ''We hate ourselves in the morning,'' he wrote.A Family Penchant for History 
 However liberal, he was no slave to what came to be called political correctness. He spiritedly defended the old-fashioned American melting pot against proponents of multiculturalism, the idea that ethnicities should retain separate identities and even celebrate them. He elicited tides of criticism by comparing Afrocentrism to the Ku Klux Klan.
 History and its telling, quite literally, ran in Mr. Schlesinger's blood. One of his reputed ancestors was George Bancroft, who over 40 years starting in 1834 wrote the monumental 12-volume ''History of the United States from the Discovery of the Continent.'' His father, Arthur M. Schlesinger, was an immensely influential historian who led the way in making social history a genuine discipline.
 In his early teens, the son changed his middle name from Bancroft to Meier, his father's middle name, and began calling himself junior. He would later adopt and develop many of his father's ideas about history, including the theory that history moves in cycles from liberal to conservative periods. His father gave him the idea for his Harvard honors thesis.
 But the younger Mr. Schlesinger, for all the tradition he embodied, had a refreshing streak of informality. While working in the Kennedy White House, he found time to review movies for Show magazine. He also admitted his mistakes. One, he said, was neglecting to mention President Jackson's brutal treatment of the Indians in his Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Age of Jackson.'' It was published when he was 27, and is still standard reading.
 The book rejected earlier interpretations linking the rise of Jacksonian democracy with westward expansion. Instead, it gave greater importance to a coalition of intellectuals and workers in the Northeast who were determined to check the growing power of business.
 The book sold more than 90,000 copies in its first year and won the 1946 Pulitzer Prize for history.
 His multivolume history of the New Deal, ''The Age of Roosevelt,'' began in 1957 with ''The Crisis of the Old Order, 1919-1933,'' continued in 1959 with ''The Coming of the New Deal'' and culminated in 1960 with ''The Politics of Upheaval.'' The first volume won two prestigious awards for history-writing, the Francis Parkman Prize from the Society of American Historians and the Frederic Bancroft Prize from Columbia University. The book was praised as capturing the interplay between ideas and action, emphasizing tensions similar to those Mr. Schlesinger had described in the Jackson era.
 ''This book clearly launches one of the important historical enterprises of our time,'' the historian C. Vann Woodward wrote in The Saturday Review.
 Mr. Schlesinger never stopped seeming like the brightest student in class, ''the eternal Quiz Kid,'' in Time magazine's phrase. He had no advanced degrees, but his scholarly output, not to mention reams of articles for popular publications like TV Guide and Ladies' Home Journal, dwarfed those who did. Even as a child he felt a duty to manage conversations, not to say monopolize them.
 An article in The New York Times Magazine in 1965 told of his mother asking him to be quiet so she could make her point.
 ''Mother, how can I be quiet if you insist upon making statements that are not factually accurate,'' the boy, then 11 or 12, replied. 
 Arthur Bancroft Schlesinger was born in Columbus, Ohio, on Oct. 15, 1917, the elder of the two sons of Arthur Meier Schlesinger and the former Elizabeth Bancroft. The younger Mr. Schlesinger wrote approvingly that Bancroft the historian, who may have been a distant cousin, was a presidential ghostwriter and bon vivant in addition to being called the father of American history.
 It was his father whom ''young Arthur,'' as he was known, idolized. His argument that urban labor was behind much of the upheaval in Jackson's time was taken up and brilliantly expanded by his son.
 The younger Schlesinger, in the first volume of his memoirs, ''A Life in the Twentieth Century: Innocent Beginnings, 1917-1950'' (2000), called his childhood ''sunny.'' He spent his earliest years in Iowa City, where his father was on the faculty of the University of Iowa. The family moved to Cambridge, Mass., in 1924, when his father was appointed to the Harvard faculty. Arthur Sr. later became chairman of the Harvard history department.
 Young Arthur first attended public schools in Cambridge, but his parents lost faith in public education in his sophomore year after a civics teacher informed Arthur's class that inhabitants of Albania were called Albinos and had white hair and pink eyes. He was shipped to the Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire.
 He graduated at 15, but the family felt he was too young to go to Harvard. So, while his father was on sabbatical, the whole family took a long trip around the world. Mr. Schlesinger then went on to Harvard and graduated summa cum laude in 1938.
 Beginning in boyhood he socialized with his father's intellectually powerful friends, from the humorist James Thurber to the novelist John Dos Passos. When he was 14, he met H. L. Mencken, and later corresponded with him. At Harvard, he knew such leading intellectual lights as the historian Samuel Eliot Morison.Well-Connected Friends
 Mr. Schlesinger later became part of the powerful circle surrounding the journalist Joseph Alsop, a group that included Philip Graham, publisher of The Washington Post, W. Averell Harriman, former governor of New York, and the lawyer Clark Clifford. Mr. Schlesinger met Mr. Kennedy, then a senator, at an Alsop soiree. His impression: ''Kennedy seemed very sincere and not unintelligent, but kind of on the conservative side.''
 Mr. Schlesinger, partly through his appreciation of history, fully realized his good fortune. ''I have lived through interesting times and had the luck of knowing some interesting people,'' he wrote. 
 A huge part of his luck was his father, who guided much of his early research, and even suggested the topic for his senior honors: Orestes A. Brownson, a 19th-century journalist, novelist and theologian. It was published by Little, Brown in 1938 as ''Orestes A. Brownson: A Pilgrim's Progress.'' Henry Steele Commager in The New York Times Book Review said the book introduced ''a new and distinguished talent in the field of historical portraiture.''
 Mr. Schlesinger spent a year in England on a fellowship at Peterhouse College of Cambridge University, then returned to Harvard, where he had been selected to be one of the first crop of junior fellows. Their research was supported for three years, but they were not allowed to pursue Ph.D.'s, a requirement intended to keep them off the standard academic treadmill.
 While a fellow, Mr. Schlesinger married Marian Cannon, whom he had met during his junior year at Harvard. Her sister was married to John King Fairbank, the eminent sinologist. The Schlesingers had twins, Stephen and Katharine, and two more children, Christina and Andrew. They were divorced in 1970. Katharine died in 2004. 
 Mr. Schlesinger married Alexandra Emmet in 1971. They had a boy, Robert, named for Robert F. Kennedy. She had a son from a previous marriage, Peter Allan. Mr. Schlesinger is survived by all three, in addition to his former wife and their three surviving children. Stephen and Andrew Schlesinger are editing their father's journals from 1952 to 1998, and plan to publish them in the fall, through Penguin Press. 
 As a Harvard fellow, Mr. Schlesinger managed to pound out 4,000 to 5,000 words a day on the Jackson work as his year-old twins frolicked around his desk. His work on the book was interrupted by World War II. Bad eyesight precluded his serving in the military, so he got a job as a writer for the Office of War Information. One assignment was writing a message from President Roosevelt to the Daughters of the American Revolution. Mr. Schlesinger doubted that the president saw such masterpieces.
 He next served in the Office of Strategic Services, forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, in Washington, London and Paris. Immediately after the war, Mr. Schlesinger went to Washington as a freelance journalist for Fortune and other magazines. After 15 months, in 1946, he accepted an associate professorship at Harvard. He said he was so nervous teaching that he vomited before each class; eventually, his presentation became so deft that his History 169 course was the department's most popular offering.
 He began to carve out a political identity, one committed to the social goals of the New Deal and staunchly anti-Communist. In 1947, he was a founder of the Americans for Democratic Action, the best-known liberal pressure group.
 In 1949, Mr. Schlesinger solidified his position as the spokesman for postwar liberalism with his book ''The Vital Center: The Politics of Freedom.'' Inspired by the Protestant theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, he argued that pragmatic, reform-minded liberalism, limited in scope, was the best that man could hope for politically.
 ''Problems will always torment us,'' he wrote, ''because all important problems are insoluble: that is why they are important. The good comes from the continuing struggle to try and solve them, not from the vain hope of their solution.''
 Starting with writing speeches for Adlai Stevenson in both his presidential campaigns, Mr. Schlesinger was a player in big-time Democratic politics. Even though Senator Barry Goldwater tried to have him fired from the Kennedy White House because of his liberal bias, one of Goldwater's colleagues paid Mr. Schlesinger something of a compliment.
 As quoted anonymously in ''The Making of the President, 1964'' by Theodore H. White, the Goldwater associate said: ''At least you got to say this for a liberal s.o.b. like Schlesinger -- when his candidates go into action, he's there writing speeches for them.''
 And books. One of his major contributions to the Kennedy campaign was a book, ''Kennedy or Nixon: Does It Make Any Difference?'' Under Nixon, the book concluded, the country would ''sink into mediocrity and cant and payola and boredom.'' Kennedy meant rising to ''the splendor of our ideals.''
 On Jan. 9, 1961, a gray, chilly, afternoon, President-elect Kennedy dropped by Mr. Schlesinger's house on Irving Street in Cambridge. He asked the professor to be a special assistant in the White House. Mr. Schlesinger answered, ''If you think I can help, I would like to come.''
 In ''Johnny, We Hardly Knew Ye,'' (1970) Kenneth P. O'Donnell and David F. Powers suggest that the new president saw some political risk in hiring such an unabashed liberal. He decided to keep the appointment quiet until another liberal, Chester Bowles, became under secretary of state.
 The authors, both Kennedy aides, said they asked Kennedy if he took Mr. Schlesinger on to write the official history of the administration. Kennedy said he would write it himself.
 ''But Arthur will probably write his own,'' the president said, ''and it will be better for us if he's in the White House, seeing what goes on, instead of reading about it in The New York Times and Time magazine.''
 Time later described Mr. Schlesinger's role in the Kennedy administration as a bridge to the intelligentsia as well as to the Adlai Stevenson-Eleanor Roosevelt wing of the Democratic Party. If the president wanted to meet the intellectual Isaiah Berlin or the composer Gian Carlo Menotti, Mr. Schlesinger arranged it. The president was said to enjoy Mr. Schlesinger's gossip during weekly lunches, although he rarely attended the brainy seminars Robert Kennedy asked Mr. Schlesinger to organize at Robert's home in Hickory Hill, Va.
 Mr. Schlesinger distinguished himself early in the administration by being one of the few in the White House to question the invasion of Cuba planned by the Eisenhower administration. But he then became a loyal soldier, telling reporters a misleading story that the Cuban exiles landing at the Bay of Pigs were no greater than 400 when in fact they numbered 1,400.
 In a discussion of that ill-fated attack afterward, McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser, reminded the president that Mr. Schlesinger had written a memorandum opposing the invasion. ''That will look pretty good when he gets around to writing his book about my administration,'' Kennedy said. ''Only he better not publish that memorandum while I'm still alive.''
 After Kennedy was assassinated, President Lyndon B. Johnson kept Mr. Schlesinger on but gave him virtually nothing to do. He resigned in January 1964. Mr. Schlesinger soon wrote an article saying that John Kennedy had not really wanted Johnson as his vice-presidential candidate, but had picked him for political reasons. 
 Mr. Schlesinger, who resigned from Harvard when his leave of absence expired in 1962, worked on his Kennedy book and for the first few months of 1966 was at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. He then joined the faculty of the City University of New York as Albert Schweitzer professor of the humanities.
 He settled in Manhattan, where he remained until his death. His visibility was high -- from the society pages to the column he wrote for the op-ed page of The Wall Street Journal to television appearances. He continued to protect the Kennedy image despite steady disclosures that smudged it. In 1996, he angered conservatives by selecting historians for a poll that found Presidents Kennedy and Johnson had been ''high average'' presidents and President Ronald Reagan ''low average.''
 His writing was ceaseless, including the book and articles criticizing the Iraq war. In ''The Imperial Presidency'' (1973), he argued that President Richard M. Nixon had so magnified the powers of the president that he must be impeached. In a review, Jeane Kirkpatrick, the ambassador to the United Nations under Reagan, retorted that Mr. Schlesinger had applied different standards to Democratic presidents.Comparing the Kennedys
 In 1978, Mr. Schlesinger scored a literary and commercial triumph with ''Robert Kennedy and His Times.'' In The New York Times Book Review, Garry Wills, who had once called Mr. Schlesinger ''a Kennedy courtier,'' rated the work ''learned and thorough.'' It won a National Book Award.
 In the book, Mr. Schlesinger compared the brothers: ''John Kennedy was a realist brilliantly disguised as a romantic, Robert Kennedy, a romantic stubbornly disguised as a realist.'' 
 Mr. Schlesinger had hoped that Robert would ignite a new spirit of liberalism but grew disappointed when Jimmy Carter rose to lead the Democratic Party in 1976. He considered Mr. Carter woefully conservative and did not vote for him in either of his campaigns. He worked for Senator Edward M. Kennedy in his unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1980.
 In 1991, Mr. Schlesinger provoked a backlash with ''The Disuniting of America,'' an attack on the emergent ''multicultural society'' in which he said Afrocentrists claimed superiority and demanded that their separate identity be honored by schools and other institutions.
 The novelist Ishmael Reed denounced Mr. Schlesinger as a ''follower of David Duke,'' the former Ku Klux Klan leader. The Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. caricatured Mr. Schlesinger's arguments as a demand for ''cultural white-face.''
 Mr. Schlesinger was unfazed. He frequently described himself as an unreconstructed New Dealer whose basic thinking had changed little in a half-century.
 ''What the hell,'' he answered when questioned by The Washington Post about his attack on multiculturalism. ''You have to call them as you see them. This too shall pass.''
 Mr. Schlesinger continued to write articles and sign petitions, and last year he received an award from the National Portrait Gallery for his presidential service. His failing health prevented him from attending the funeral of his good friend John Kenneth Galbraith last May.
 Mr. Schlesinger's son Stephen read some words he had written about Mr. Galbraith: ''Underneath his joy in combat, he was a do-gooder in the dark of night.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An obituary about the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger in some copies last Thursday, and in early-edition copies the next day, misstated the publication year of ''Johnny, We Hardly Knew Ye,'' a book about President John F. Kennedy by Kenneth P. O'Donnell and David F. Powers, who wrote that President Kennedy saw some political risk in hiring Mr. Schlesinger, an ardent liberal, as an adviser. It was published in 1972, not 1970.
 The obituary last Thursday also misstated the name of a federal agency that Mr. Schlesinger worked for during World War II. It was the Office of Strategic Services, a forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency; it was not the Office of Strategic Planning. It also misspelled the middle name of a former governor of New York who, with Mr. Schlesinger, was part of a powerful circle surrounding the journalist Joseph Alsop. He was W. Averell Harriman, not Averill.
 The obituary on Thursday also referred imprecisely at one point to the relationship of the 19th-century historian George Bancroft to Mr. Schlesinger's mother, the former Elizabeth Bancroft. Although Mr. Bancroft was believed to be an ancestor of hers, there is no definitive evidence that they were related. And the obituary omitted the last word in a paragraph about Mr. Schlesinger's survivors. Referring to his wife, son and stepson, it should have read: ''Mr. Schlesinger is survived by all three, in addition to his former wife and their three surviving children.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., with John F. Kennedy, whose presidency he wrote about in ''A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House.'' Mr. Schlesinger, right, in his office at the City University of New York. (Photo by Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 (Photo by John F. Kennedy Presidential Library) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary(Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

JOHN F KENNEDY (94%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (69%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



39 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Buffett Seeks New (and Younger) Candidate for Top Investing Position

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Wanted: a promising junior executive to take over the investment portfolio of one of the world's most successful investors.
 Warren E. Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, said in his annual letter to shareholders yesterday that he was seeking a new candidate to become chief investment officer when he steps down. The former second-in-line is simply too old, Mr. Buffett said.
In the folksy, colloquial tone that Mr. Buffett's letters have become know for over the years, the so-called Oracle of Omaha said he would rather leave Berkshire's top investment job to someone who could occupy it for a long time. 
 Louis A. Simpson, the 70-year-old chief executive of Geico, the Berkshire-owned insurance company, had been Mr. Buffett's successor to run investing.
 ''If I were to die soon, he would fill in magnificently for a short period,'' Mr. Buffett wrote, referring to Mr. Simpson. ''For the long term, though, we need a different answer.''
 But Mr. Buffett gave no indication that he was tiring of his duties at Berkshire. ''At 76, I feel terrific and, according to all measurable indicators, am in excellent health. It's amazing what Cherry Coke and hamburgers will do for a fellow.''
 As he has in the past, Mr. Buffett used the letter to beat one of his favorite drums: reining in extravagant executive pay. He called on large institutional shareholders of corporations to ''demand a fresh look at the whole system.'' He scolded corporate boards for taking what he described as an ''all the other kids have one'' approach in setting executive pay by offering high compensation because competitors are. 
 ''I am a one-man compensation committee who determines the salaries and incentives for the C.E.O.s of around 40 significant operating businesses,'' Mr. Buffett wrote. ''How much time does this aspect of my job take? Virtually none. How many C.E.O.s have voluntarily left us for other jobs in our 42-year history? Precisely none.''
 Berkshire also disclosed its sizable new holdings in ConocoPhillips (17.9 million shares) and Johnson & Johnson (21.3 million shares), and said it increased holdings in nearly every other company in which it owns a significant amount of stock like Moody's, Wells Fargo, Procter & Gamble and American Express. Its holdings in Wal-Mart and the Washington Post Company were unchanged from 2005.
 His letter left out the names of two companies in which Berkshire is busy buying shares. Its holdings in those companies already have a market value of $1.9 billion, he said. ''I could, of course, tell you their names. But then I would have to kill you.'' 
 Mr. Buffett offered his musings on the troubles facing the newspaper industry, and in particular, those facing The Buffalo News, which is wholly owned by Berkshire. The company is not considering putting the paper up for sale, but he suggested that could change.
 ''Unless we face an irreversible cash drain, we will stick with The News,'' he wrote. ''We hope that some combination of print and online will ward off economic doomsday for newspapers, and we will work hard in Buffalo to develop a sustainable business model.''
 Mr. Buffett said Berkshire was always looking for more companies to acquire -- but only big valuable ones need apply. He said he must ''ignore the pursuit of mice and focus our acquisition efforts on much bigger game.''
 Berkshire also reported that it made $3.58 billion in the fourth quarter, down 30.2 percent from the period a year before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren E. Buffett continues to criticize excess executive pay. (Photo by Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%) Biographical Information; Company Reports; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (63%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway 

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); COP (NYSE) (63%); AXP (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (63%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%) Jeremy W Peters; Warren E Buffett; Louis A Simpson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007



40 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Short History, Long View; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: A Surging Audi Plans to Set the Pace in Luxury Cars

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: INGOLSTADT, Germany, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
Visitors to the Audi automobile museum here could be forgiven for puzzling over the first few exhibits in this striking circular glass building. There are splendid antique motor cars with names like Horch, Wanderer and DKW, but no Audis. 
 Only on later cars does the Audi name show up: affixed to their grilles, as if an afterthought.
In the aristocratic world of German automobiles, Audi is something of a parvenu. While Mercedes-Benz and BMW have long histories and legendary brand names, Audi was cobbled together in the 1930s from three German automakers under the bland label Auto Union.
 But heritage is not all it is cracked up to be. While Mercedes has struggled to hold on to its gilded status in recent years, Audi has been on a tear, becoming Germany's, and the world's, fastest-growing maker of luxury cars. 
 ''We have a very short history, so we talk a lot more about the future,'' said Rupert Stadler, 43, who became one of the youngest chief executives of a major German company when he took the Audi helm in January.
 Mr. Stadler, whose salt-and-pepper hair belies his age, makes an audacious prediction: by 2015, he declares, Audi will be the leader in luxury cars in the world. He is quick to note that this does not mean selling the most cars each year, but setting the industry pace in technological innovation, brand image and customer satisfaction.
 ''Audi today is not what it was 10 years ago,'' Mr. Stadler said in an interview in this Bavarian town. ''We are more ambitious; we have a different product portfolio; and we want to play in a different league.''
 In Europe, Audi still trails the perennial luxury leaders, BMW and Mercedes of DaimlerChrysler, but it is narrowing the gap. It remains far ahead of Lexus, Toyota's luxury division, which has only been selling here for a few years, but has enjoyed a recent growth spurt. 
 In the United States, though, Audi has to compete not only with its larger German rivals, but with Lexus, which has led the market this decade with a peerless reputation for service and reliability. And the newest version of its LS sedan, the LS 460, is meant to answer criticisms that Lexus has an undistinguished appearance.
 ''We still have a tough job in the United States,'' Mr. Stadler said. ''It will take several more years.'' His goal, he said, is to sell 200,000 vehicles a year, up from 90,116 last year (Lexus sold 322,000).
 Still, Audi is making inroads with sharper-looking cars and its tradition of innovation in four-wheel drive, or quattro technology, which has made it an increasingly popular car in snowy parts of the country, like the Northeast and the upper Midwest.
 Tony Catalano, a salesman at an Audi dealership in Danbury, Conn., said Audi used to overlap with brands like Acura of Japan. Now, he said, Audi is attracting people who would otherwise buy a BMW.
 ''Our cars are the safest on the road,'' Mr. Catalano said. ''You can feel our all-wheel drive hug the road.''
 Audi's ambitions are on display most viscerally in the R8, a 480-horsepower two-seat sports car it introduced last fall. Professional drivers say the R8 goes wheel-to-wheel with the Porsche 911 Carerra, which is nice, because with a price tag of 105,000 euros, or nearly $139,000, it is more expensive than a Carerra. 
 With rarefied cars like that, it is easy to forget that Audi is owned by Volkswagen, the quintessential mass-market automaker. But unlike DaimlerChrysler, which has proved to be an unhappy marriage of mass and class -- so unhappy that Daimler is now trying to unload Chrysler -- Volkswagen and Audi have had a durable and mutually beneficial relationship.
 ''There are two examples that prove you can successfully combine premium and volume carmakers: Toyota with Lexus, and Volkswagen with Audi,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, the director of the Center for Automotive Research in Gelsenkirchen. 
 Audi is not only the star of the Volkswagen family, which also includes Bentley, but it is the best performer in the premium category. In 2006, its unit sales grew 9.5 percent, to 905,188 vehicles, the 11th consecutive year of record results. Sales of Mercedes grew 6.5 percent, to 1.14 million, while BMW's sales rose 5.2 percent, to 1.18 million.
 Audi aims to break the million-car barrier in 2008, with new models that appeal to drivers in the under-$100,000 range, including a trimmer version of its Q7 sport utility vehicle, the Q5, and a two-door coupe, the A5, which it plans to introduce next week at the Geneva Motor Show.
 The A5, which will start at 33,000 euros in Europe -- United States prices have not been set yet -- aims at the Mercedes CLK coupe and the BMW 3 Series. Audi was chagrined when unauthorized photos of the car found their way on to the Internet two weeks ago; the buzz about its low-slung, flowing design has been mixed.
 Analysts, though, are generally sanguine about Audi's prospects. It has marched up the rankings for quality and service. With its new models, and future projects like a small car to rival BMW's Mini, Audi will soon compete against BMW and Mercedes across the board.
 ''Among all the luxury brands, Audi has the best chance of getting into the top tier,'' said George Peterson, the president of AutoPacific, a market research firm in Tustin, Calif.
 Getting all the way to No. 1, however, will be a stretch. In the United States, its second-largest market, Audi is still battling the memory, though dim, of the mid-1980s when drivers reported that their Audi 5000's sometimes accelerated without warning, with nasty consequences for anyone in their path.
 Audi said the drivers had confused the brake and accelerator pedals -- a finding backed up by a government report. But Audi's sales were decimated, and its image took two decades to recover.
 Audi also has to square its turbocharged ambitions with mounting concerns about fuel prices and carbon-dioxide emissions. Analysts say Audi missed the market in the United States by introducing a large sport utility vehicle, the Q7, at a time when S.U.V.'s were falling out of favor (although the Q7, it must be said, has surpassed overall expectations due to torrid sales in Europe and Asia).
 The European Union is weighing whether to impose reductions on the carbon emissions of cars, and at the levels under consideration, Audi has only a single model, the A3, that would squeeze under them.
 As with other German auto executives, Mr. Stadler said an across-the-board cut in emissions would badly hurt the industry, depriving consumers of the technology gains that come from high-performance cars like the R8. It would also, he said, rob the industry of much of its romance.
 Audi has done its part for the environment by developing cleaner diesel engines, Mr. Stadler said. ''What we should not sacrifice is emotion for our industry, the sex appeal of our industry,'' he said.
 Its other main innovation, which it calls quattro technology, is a prime selling point. At the World Economic Forum conference in Davos, Switzerland, Audi promoted its reputation as a car for treacherous weather by offering a half-day safe-driving course on a field of ice.
 As a respite from solving the world's problems, the chief executives and other V.I.P.'s could careen around the track in an Audi A8, the carmaker's top-end sedan. Though it seems like a game of bumper cars for grown-ups, the course has become a staple for the Davos set.
 On a wintry afternoon at this year's conference, the chief executive of a major American consumer-goods company confided that he drives only A8's at home. Then he got into the one provided by Audi, spun it around in dizzying circles, and climbed out with a look of sheer delight.
 Audi's challenge, Mr. Peterson said, is to create that excitement with all of its cars. ''People say Audis are stealth cars. They're not head turners,'' he said. ''The R8 will go a long way toward changing that image.''
 The R8 was designed by Walter Maria de'Silva, who recently left Audi to take over design for all of Volkswagen. Mr. de'Silva is one of several executives who moved to the parent company in a shuffle that began when Audi's well-regarded chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, was named to succeed Volkswagen's ousted boss, Bernd Pischetsrieder, last fall.
 The loss of Mr. Winterkorn, Mr. de'Silva and others does constitute a brain drain, Mr. Stadler said, though he said that Audi quickly filled the vacancies. As chief designer, it hired Wolfgang Egger, who, like Mr. de'Silva, came from the Italian carmaker Alfa Romeo.
 ''We're not facing a heart attack or breakdown,'' said Mr. Stadler, who had been the chief of finance. ''I like to have friends and colleagues at Volkswagen, because it is so much easier.''
 Audi's ties to Volkswagen are evident in a tour of its assembly plant here. Boxes with parts, stamped with the VW logo, are everywhere. Robert Humig, the manager of assembly for the A3, said the car shared 40 percent of its parts with Volkswagen, as well as a common platform.
 Audi's success, Mr. Stadler said, has been to carve out a distinctive identity, while saving money by sharing parts, particularly in areas that are not visible to the driver, like electrical systems.
 ''The important thing is that your customer feels Audi, feels Volkswagen, or whatever,'' he said. ''But the chips behind that: who cares? They're from Intel.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about Audi, which has become the world's fastest-growing maker of luxury cars, referred incorrectly to its origins. The modern company was created in the 1930s by the merger of four -- not three -- German car-makers, including Audi itself, which had existed since 1910. The article also misspelled the name of Porsche's counterpart to Audi's R8 two-seat sports car. It is the Carrera, not Carerra.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rupert Stadler, Audi's chief, predicts the company will be the world's leading maker of luxury cars by 2015. The A5 Cabrio, left, a two-door coupe, will be introduced next week. The Q7 was the company's first S.U.V. (Photo by Thomas Lohnes/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
Audi is proud of its quattro, or four-wheel-drive technology, used in vehicles like the A6, bottom, and the S8. (Photo by Michaela Handrek-Rehle for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Audi's Growth''Over the last decade, Audi's global sales have doubled. Last year, sales in China soared by nearly 40 percent.Graph tracks Audi vehicles soldUNITED STATES: 90,116GERMANY: 257,792REST OF EUROPE*: 400,671CHINA*: 81,708REST OF WORLD: 74,901*Figures available only for 2005-6.(Sources by Audi
 MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Side by Side''How Audi sales in the United States compare with some other major luxury-car brands, ranked from left to right by 2006 sales.Graphs track sales of the following from 1996-2006: BMWMERCEDESCADILLACACURAINFINITILINCOLNVOLVOAUDIPORSCHE(Source by MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SEDANS (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); BRAND EQUITY (70%); BRANDING (70%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (50%) Automobiles; Company and Organization Profiles; Sales; Automobiles

COMPANY: AUDI AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag; Mercedes-Benz Ag; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Lexus Division of Toyota Motor Sales Usa; Audi Ag

TICKER: NSU (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Rupert Stadler

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%) Germany ; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



41 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Gold Is Awaiting Its Day

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
A STOPPED clock is right twice a day. The proverbial blind squirrel probably does find the occasional acorn. And all those people who have been arguing for years, frequently on infomercials and in advertisements on talk radio, that the price of gold is going to increase drastically may finally be correct, Bloomberg Markets writes.
 The swooning dollar, which has become a proxy for the slowing American economy and its inability to reduce its trade and budget deficits ''is making gold Wall Street's darling,'' Pham-Duy Nguyen writes. 
 ''Investors who sell assets denominated in the U.S. currency often buy gold,'' according to the magazine. ''Declines of more than 20 percent for the dollar against six major currencies led to a gold rally of 22 percent from January 1971 to July 1973 and 95 percent from June 1976 to October 1978.''
 An expert tells Bloomberg Markets that the price of gold will top $730 an ounce this year and forecasts that the price will reach $3,000 an ounce within the decade.
 The price of gold closed at $642.45 yesterday.IS VICE NICE? -- Although the idea of a mutual fund devoted strictly to companies that cater to satisfying vices -- smoking and drinking, for example --would seem a natural, none have ever really caught on.
 The Vice Fund, with $75 million in assets, is ''believed to be the only fund now in existence dedicated to investing in impiety,'' David Obuchowski writes in Trader Monthly.
 The Vice Fund is run by Charles Norton, a 32-year-old certified financial adviser, and since Mr. Norton took over as portfolio manager in September 2005, ''the firm has returned 25.2 percent against the S.& P. 500's total return of 18.8 percent,'' Mr. Obuchowski wrote. The magazine's figures are through late December. During that time, one of the best-known socially responsible mutual funds, the Calvert Social Index, was up just 14.3 percent.
 As for the man who runs the fund, the magazine writes that ''his love of vice is strictly nurtured by his study of the markets.''
 Mr. Norton says he doesn't smoke, rarely gambles and only drinks occasionally.
 ''I wake up at 4:45 a.m. and arrive at my office at 5:30,'' he told the magazine. ''And from that point on, as unglamorous as it sounds, I sit in front of my six screens all day, analyzing global market trends, searching for the next opportunity.''GOING PUBLIC ELSEWHERE -- Are American capital markets losing their appeal? ''A new study says yes,'' Reason magazine writes.
 In a working paper for the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business points out that while in the late 1990s the United States attracted nearly half of all global initial public offerings, its market share dropped to 6 percent in 2005, a year when 24 of 25 of the largest offerings took place outside the United States. 
 Last year, according to estimates, the United States capital markets attracted only 8 percent of all global initial offerings.
 Mr. Zingales argues that ''excessive regulation'' like the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and ''overly burdensome litigation risk,'' thanks to the increasing size of securities class-action lawsuit settlements, are two reasons American capital markets are losing appeal.
 As a result, many companies listing outside their home country have chosen to have their stock traded in London rather than New York.FINAL TAKE -- ''Thanks to a recent spurt in nickel prices, the metal in a 5-cent coin (25 percent nickel and 75 percent copper) is now worth more than the coin itself,'' Money magazine writes.
 The metal is worth about 28 percent more -- 6.4 cents.
 But if you are thinking of a bit of arbitrage, think again. The United States mint recently made it illegal to melt coins.
 Besides, as the magazine notes, what would you ''do with a vat of molten metal anyway?'' PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DOLLAR (77%); COINS & COINAGE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TRENDS (77%); FUTURES (77%); ETHICAL INVESTING (76%); BONDS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); SMOKING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%) Gold; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Mutual Funds; Stocks and Bonds; Gold; Nickel; Currency; Gold

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); US MINT (59%) Bloomberg Markets; Trader Monthly (Magazine); Reason (Magazine); University of Chicago; Money (Magazine); United States Mint

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: David Obuchowski; Luigi (Prof) Zingales; Paul B Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%) ILLINOIS, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



42 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Authorities Investigate Big Lender

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors and securities regulators are investigating stock sales and accounting errors at the New Century Financial Corporation, the biggest mortgage company that specializes in lending to people with weak, or subprime, credit, the company disclosed in a corporate filing yesterday.
 The company also warned that a delay in filing its financials may put vital financing into jeopardy. 
The troubles at New Century are the latest sign of the deterioration in subprime lending -- until recently the fastest-growing segment of the mortgage business. The market has been struggling to contain the fallout from rising default rates and weakening home prices. Late last year, some smaller lenders started going out of business and last month several bigger companies, including New Century, started reporting problems.
 Another large lender, the Fremont General Corporation, said yesterday that it planned to sell its subprime mortgage business after reaching an agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to restrict its activities in that area. As part of the agreement, Fremont will be able to continue taking deposits.
 The investigations into New Century, which is based in Irvine, Calif., and wrote $33.9 billion in mortgages last year, started after the company said on Feb. 7 that it would restate earnings for three quarters, which sparked a huge sell-off in its shares. Yesterday, it said its problems had prevented it from filing its annual report, which was to be released Thursday. The board is conducting an investigation of the accounting problems. 
 The company's shares have fallen more than 53 percent since the start of the year -- before the most recent announcement, which came after the stock market closed. Its shares were down $3.73, or 25 percent, to $10.92, in after-hours trading.
 On Feb. 22, the company said the regulatory arm of the New York Stock Exchange contacted it about sales in the company's securities before that announcement. On Wednesday, it received notice from the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles that it was conducting a criminal investigation. Federal prosecutors are looking into trading in New Century securities and errors in how the company accounted for home loans that it was forced to buy back from Wall Street firms that buy its loans and package them into bonds. Also, the Securities and Exchange Commission has requested a meeting with its executives.
 It is unclear what stock sales investigators are looking at, but data from securities filings compiled by Thompson Financial show that two of the company's top executives sold sizable blocks of shares in the second half of last year. Robert K. Cole, a former chairman and a founder of the company, sold stock worth $6.7 million in the third and fourth quarters after not selling significant numbers of shares for the previous three quarters. And Edward F. Gotschall, another founder and vice chairman, sold shares worth $14.7 million after not selling significant numbers of shares for the previous six months.
 Earlier last spring, the executives, both of whom are still on the board, said they would be moving out of their leadership positions. They later disclosed plans to sell stock. 
 A spokeswoman for New Century said the executives and the company would not comment beyond the company's filing. A spokesman for federal prosecutors in Los Angeles also declined to comment.
 New Century, which was formed in 1995, narrowly survived a shakeout in the subprime sector in the late 1990's when concerns about faulty accounting and Russia's default scared investors away from risky bonds tied to subprime mortgages. The credit crunch caused several of its rivals to disappear, but New Century pulled through because it received a large cash infusion from U.S. Bancorp in Minneapolis at the time.
 With fewer competitors, the company was well positioned to grab market share during the housing boom that began earlier this decade with the help of low interest rates. Subprime loans, which are largely given to poor and minority borrowers, had rapid growth but as more lenders jumped in lending standards were loosened and default rates for loans made in 2006 have been high.
 New Century now appears to be facing a credit crunch similar to the one it encountered in the late 1990s.
 The company said the delay in filing its financial reports had put its access to billions of dollars in credit lines and other financings into jeopardy. The company will have to seek a second set of waivers from banks that provide it credit lines totaling $17.4 billion if it does not file financial reports by March 15.
 Also, the company will have to seek waivers from lenders that have provided it with 11 financing arrangements, because it will not have at least $1 in net income for the six months that ended in December. It has gotten six waivers so far, but they are contingent upon the company getting similar leniency from the other five.
 The company's fate will probably hinge largely on the providers of its capital, which include Wall Street's biggest banks, which also own a hefty chunk of the company. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Barclays Capital and Deutsche Bank own about 16 percent of the company, according to securities filings. Citigroup recently bought a 5.1 percent stake in the company and Greenlight Capital, a prominent hedge fund, owns 6.3 percent. Its president and co-founder, David Einhorn, sits on the board of New Century.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about an investigation into stock sales and accounting errors at the New Century Financial Corporation misspelled the name of the company that had collected data on the sale of stock by New Century executives. It is Thomson Financial, not Thompson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BONDS (75%); ETHICS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HOME PRICES (55%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Housing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (96%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (70%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) New Century Financial; Securities and Exchange Commission; Fremont General Corp; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (96%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



43 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS SOFTWARE MAKER ACQUIRED

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Cegedim, which supplies sales-tracking software for drugmakers, agreed to buy a rival, Dendrite International, for $751 million to expand in the United States and Asia. Cegedim, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, said it would acquire Dendrite for $16 a share, a 25 percent premium to Dendrite's closing price on Thursday. Dendrite is based in Bedminster, N.J. Cegedim had sales of 501 million euros ($660 million) in 2005; Dendrite had revenue of $437 million. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks share prices of Dendrite fior the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (88%); DIVESTITURES (88%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (86%) Medicine and Health; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Sales

COMPANY: CEGEDIM RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (92%); CEGEDIM SA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Cegedim ; Dendrite International Inc

TICKER: CGM (PAR) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (70%) UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (87%); FRANCE (70%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (56%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



44 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence at a 5-Month Low

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Consumer sentiment fell further than previously estimated in February, hitting a five-month low as concerns over incomes and jobs in a slowing economy weighed on confidence, a survey showed yesterday. 
 The Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers said the final February reading of its consumer sentiment index slid to 91.3 from 96.9 at the end of January, which was the highest reading for the index in two years.
The result for February came in below the median forecast of 93.5 in a Reuters poll of economists.
 Worries about jobs and incomes were particularly acute in lower-income households, according to the survey. 
 The financial strains among this group, the survey noted, could signal further stresses on the shaky subprime mortgage market, which comprises risky home loans made to borrowers with weak credit. 
 ''Consumer confidence continued to slide in late February due to rising concerns about the outlook for the national economy,'' a statement accompanying the data said.
 ''Importantly, the weakness in the personal finances of lower-income households indicates the likelihood of mounting delinquencies in the subprime market in the months ahead,'' the statement added, ''but the data do not indicate any heightened potential for the spread of delinquencies into the prime market.''
 The surveys' index of current economic conditions fell to 106.7 in February from 111.3 in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%) United States Economy; Public Opinion; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) Reuters Plc; University of Michigan

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



45 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Smoke-Free Gambling Site Thrives Amid Debate on Ban

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: YONKERS, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
In a vast, dimly lit room with a low ceiling and frosted glass chandeliers -- but without the scent or sight of a smoky haze -- video lottery terminals are arrayed in ranks like soldiers.
 ''I used to go to Atlantic City and I hated it when people would sit next to me smoking a cigarette,'' said Rosa Rodriguez of the Bronx, who stood outside Yonkers Raceway this week smoking a cigarette during a break from the video slot machines. ''I'm a smoker, but you pick up secondhand smoke and it gets in your clothes.''
 To hear casino operators and some lawmakers, however, Ms. Rodriquez is the exception and not the rule. 
 In New Jersey, antismoking advocates are regularly reminded when it comes to casinos that progress is often measured in inches. And now in New York, where an agreement with the St. Regis Mohawks has paved the way for a casino in the Catskills, they are finding that it is a game played in the fine print.
 In both states, arguments over the dangers of secondhand smoke run headlong into the mantra of casino owners that smoking bans will jeopardize their ability to do business and will send gamblers fleeing to less restrictive areas or to other forms of gambling. 
 But the owners of racinos, racetracks with video slot machines, say smoking bans have not cut into their popularity or their profitability.
 So far, say officials at Yonkers Raceway, one of seven such gambling emporiums in New York State, the smoking ban has proved to be more of an attraction than a deterrent to business. While racinos, with their slot machines, blur the lines with casinos, with their table games, there is little question that operations like the one in Yonkers have brought new revenue to the tracks and to the state, rescuing harness and thoroughbred racing from extinction.
 In New Jersey, the efforts to ban smoking have been as tremulous as a smoke ring.
 Last year the Legislature approved a total ban on smoking in restaurants and bars, but exempted casinos. 
 This year, the City Council in Atlantic City, under pressure from antismoking advocates and casino employees, broached the notion of a total smoking ban. After casino operators warned of economic harm, the Council relented and last month approved a measure allowing smoking on 25 percent of the gambling floors.
 About three weeks later, the State Senate Health Committee unanimously passed a measure that would do away with the exemption, but obstacles thrown up by the casino operators are considerable, and prospects for its final passage are uncertain. Besides the millions in revenue they bring into the state, casino operators are also large political contributors.
 In New York, a coalition of antismoking groups has raised concerns about a new pact with the St. Regis Mohawks, which on its face would require that their proposed casino observe the state's ban on smoking in the workplace. But according to Peter Slocum, a spokesman for the antismoking groups, buried in the 92-page agreement is wording that would allow only a ''portion'' of the casino floor to be smoke-free.
 A statement from Gov. Eliot Spitzer's office on the compact with the St. Regis Mohawks initially said the tribe would observe all state health and safety laws even though the proposed casino would be on sovereign Indian land. But Christine Pritchard, a Spitzer spokeswoman, conceded that the compact's language regarding smoking was inconsistent, and that efforts were being made to resolve any confusion. 
 Russell Sciandra, president of the American Cancer Society, one of the groups favoring a ban, said in a letter to Governor Spitzer, ''We believe the compact's failure to meaningfully address smoking is backsliding and a bad deal for the health of New Yorkers.''
 A similar kind of buyer's remorse has descended on some New Jersey legislators who supported last year's exemption for casinos. State Senator Joseph Vitale, a co-sponsor of the latest bill calling for a total smoking ban, said he accepted the exemption because 95 percent of bars and restaurants would be covered. ''But afterward, a number of lawmakers regretted granting the exemption, based partly on the outcry from unions representing casino workers,'' Mr. Vitale said. ''I feel confident that we can get this complete ban out of the Senate.''
 The General Assembly is another issue, however. 
 Joseph Donnelly, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr., said the speaker felt that with casino revenues slackening recently, the state must ''move cautiously.'' Figures for January showed revenue at Atlantic City's 11 casinos declined 2.9 percent from the previous year; the decline in slot machine revenue was 7.2 percent.
 Mr. Donnelly noted there are no smoking bans at the two casinos in Connecticut on Indian land, and that Pennsylvania, which is about to sharply expand the number of video lottery parlors, is also grappling with the issue.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey has pointed to the potential economic effects of a smoking ban, although his spokesman, Anthony Coley, said, ''The governor believes in the near future there will be a universal smoking ban in place.'' Mr. Coley added, ''We still have not seen an economic impact study to determine if this will undermine Atlantic City's economic competitiveness.''
 Since 1974, Regina Carlson, executive director of Group Against Smoking Pollution, known as GASP, reminds herself that just as in the nation's antislavery and gay rights efforts, lawmakers are ''bringing up the rear'' behind public opinion. But Ms. Carlson said her forces were more organized than in the past, allied with casino workers and armed with more data and polls supporting a total smoking ban on the gambling floors.
 ''I know that it is just a matter of time,'' she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 3 about smoking bans at gambling sites misstated the title of Russell Sciandra. He is the director of the Center for a Tobacco Free New York, a coalition of groups of which the American Cancer Society is a member. He is not the president of the American Cancer Society.

GRAPHIC: Photos: What is missing among Yonkers Raceway's video slot machines? Smoke. A ban is an attraction rather than a deterrent to business, raceway officials say. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Jim Martone at the Borgata Hotel Casino in Atlantic City
 the casinos are fighting a total smoking ban. (Photo by Mel Evans/Associated Press)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); GAMING (92%); SMOKING BANS (91%); CASINOS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); HORSE RACING (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); LOTTERIES (72%); CITIES (72%); APPROVALS (69%); HORSES (67%) Smoking and Tobacco; Casinos; Gambling; Law and Legislation; Law and Legislation ; Slot Machines; Horse Racing; Smoking and Tobacco; Finances

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (56%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New Jersey; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



46 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Will Freedom Bloom in the Desert?

BYLINE: By Frederick Vreeland. 
Frederick Vreeland, a former deputy assistant secretary of state for Near East and South Asia affairs, was the United States ambassador to Morocco from 1992 to 1993.

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, unusually heavy rain storms destroyed half of the camps in Algeria where some90,000 refugees fromthe disputed territory ofthe Western Sahara have been ekingout a miserable existence for more than 30 years.
 I have been involved in North African affairs for 40 years, and for most of that time the problem of the WesternSahara has envenomed relations among its neighbors and immiserated the Saharan population.
Thankfully, Morocco's young king, Mohammed VI, has devised a proposal for granting autonomous status to this region, and it behooves all members of the United Nations Security Council to support it. Here is a rare instance, in the post-9/11 world, in which a little encouragement from the United States and other nations could pay large dividends, fostering not only a final resolution for the region's refugees but also creating a stable North African peace for the first time in decades -- a peace that would serve as a bulwark against Islamic extremism. 
 The Western Sahara, a Colorado-sized desert land on the Atlantic bordered by Algeria, Mauritania and Morocco, has deep roots in Moroccan history. It is here that the 11th-century Moroccans who founded the Andalusian empire, which stretched from Mauritania deep into Spain, originated. 
 Spain colonized the territory in 1884, then abandoned it in 1976. Around that time, thousands of unarmed Moroccans streamed into the Western Sahara and effectively reclaimed it for their homeland. 
 But neighboring Algeria helped create and then lent armed support to the Polisario Front, a guerrilla group that resisted Moroccan rule. The group's putative aim is independence for the Western Sahara, but it is worth noting that Algeria would gain a great deal by dominating an area with phosphate reserves and an Atlantic coastline.
 For many years there was fierce fighting, from which tens of thousands of families fled, and eventually came under the care of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Though the violence concluded with a United Nations-brokered cease-fire in 1991, the Western Sahara's inhabitants remain caught in the unresolved conflict. Almost a quarter of the 400,000 Saharans, or Sahrawis, are living under deplorable conditions in Algeria, generally unable to leave the refugee camps, communicate with the outside world or maintain their traditional nomadic way of life. 
 While Morocco exercises control over the greater part of the Western Sahara and has an ''open door'' policy toward the refugees, the Polisario has made it virtually impossible for those Sahrawis living in the camps in southern Algeria to return. Holding on to the refugees is their strategy for ''governing'' these people, who exist solely on international assistance. Particularly troubling is the fact that the younger ones have never known life outside these bleak camps.
 Enter Mohammed VI. Since assuming the throne seven years ago, the Moroccan king has brought about vital domestic reforms, including elevating and protecting the status of women, as well as establishing an independent commission to face up to Morocco's human rights record. In an effort to advance the Western Sahara issue, the king studied contemporary models of territorial conflict resolution to see which solutions proved viable and durable in similar situations around the world. He created an advisory council to gather the views of both Moroccans and the Sahrawi. 
 The result? After a year-long national discussion, Morocco is to propose, at the United Nations in April, a plan to establish the Western Sahara as an autonomous region under Moroccan sovereignty. Autonomy would provide effective self-determination for the Sahrawis, allowing for local decision-making and control over economic, social, linguistic and cultural issues. Successful autonomy regions like this exist elsewhere. The Trentino-Alto Adige region in Italy and the autonomous region of Madeira in Portugal are examples, as are Catalonia and the Basque Provinces in Spain. The creation of these quasi-states has unlocked longstanding disputes once thought resolvable only by force. 
 Mohammed VI is seeking a solution to the Western Sahara dispute based on common ground rather than conflict. His act of leadership is in everyone's interest. It is no secret that the young people in these horrible camps are prey for recruitment by Al Qaeda and local terrorist groups. Indeed, Algeria's most murderous terrorist group recently renamed itself Al Qaeda of the Islamic Maghreb, signaling its wider designs on the region.
 This is why it is vital that the Security Council accept Morocco's proposal for an autonomous region and not be pushed into a debate for full Western Saharan independence. A weak independent state would likely morph into a terrorist-controlled one. 
 This is also why the United States must be forthright in its support for the Moroccan proposal. We would be aiding a modernizing, moderate Islamic country, and a strategic ally. More urgently and no less important, we would be helping the Western Sahara's people to regain their lost liberties and their right to peaceful existence.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on March 3, about Morocco's proposal for an autonomous Western Sahara, should have more fully disclosed the background of the author, Frederick Vreeland. Mr. Vreeland, a former American ambassador to Morocco, is also the chairman of a solar-energy company that has had contracts with the Moroccan government.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Matt Rota) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); DESERTS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TERRORISM (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); RELIGION (52%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Politics and Government 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

PERSON: Frederick Vreeland; Mohammed Vi (King)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (70%) ALGERIA (96%); MOROCCO (96%); WESTERN SAHARA (96%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); MAURITANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (91%) Morocco; Western Sahara

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



47 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Reporting for Duty

BYLINE: By Robert C. Pozen. 
Robert C. Pozen, an investment manager, is a member of the United States Chamber of Commerce's Commission on the Regulation of the United States Capital Markets in the 21st Century.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
EXECUTIVES of publicly traded companies complain bitterly about American investors' undue emphasis on short-term results. Yet paradoxically, two-thirds of the companies in the S.&P. 500 project what their next quarter's earnings per share will be -- and then spend huge amounts of time and resources in a dubious effort to meet that projection. 
 Evidence is mounting that giving what's called quarterly guidance (for example, ''next quarter the company is expected to earn $2.42 to $2.44 per share'') is detrimental to a company's long-term performance. A survey by the National Bureau of Economic Research of 401 senior financial executives found that 80 percent were willing to forgo spending on research and development to meet their predictions, while 55 percent were willing, for the same reason, to delay projects that promise gains in the long term for their company. 
Similarly, an empirical analysis of companies that regularly provide such guidance concluded that even though they are more likely to meet their projections than those that use the practice only occasionally, they are less likely to achieve long-term earnings growth. 
 This month, the United States Chamber of Commerce commission on which I serve will urge all public companies to stop giving quarterly guidance. Many chief executives will be reluctant; they fear that not issuing predictions will hurt their company's stock price. These fears, however, are not supported by a 2006 McKinsey study of 1,200 companies that compared those giving quarterly guidance to those that did not. This study showed no statistically significant differences between guiders and non-guiders when it came to valuation multiples, stock price volatility and the number of analysts following the company. Trading volume did initially drop when a company abandoned the practice, but that difference disappeared within a year.
 In fact, according to a membership survey by the CFA Institute, 76 percent of investment analysts who issue their own predictions about company earnings support the elimination of quarterly earnings guidance in favor of more extensive disclosures about long-term business strategies. 
 Yet most companies that stopped giving quarterly guidance did so because they missed their own projections and, according to a recent study by three business school professors, 25 percent of them resumed the practice as soon as their earnings improved. As a result, the stock market tends to view a company's decision to stop as a negative signal about its future performance. That signal would be eliminated if more American companies announced a permanent end to the practice -- ideally, immediately after a quarter in which the company met or exceeded its projections for earnings per share. 
 At the same time, the company should provide more information to the public in three key areas. 
 First, companies should disclose more on long-term plans for acquisitions or divestitures, capital expenditures and research investments. 
 Second, after companies disclose their actual earnings per share for the quarter, they should meet with Wall Street analysts to explain any mistaken assumptions or facts by analysts -- and post the explanations on the company Web site. This practice was instituted by Exxon after it stopped giving quarterly earnings guidance.
 Third, between quarterly disclosures of actual earnings, companies should publicly report, using the Securities and Exchange Commission's expanded Form 8-K, any material changes in the company's situation -- an officer's resignation, a significant patent victory, an accounting change -- so investors aren't taken by surprise.
 If we want American companies to take a long-term approach, we must help chief executives free themselves from the tyranny of projecting quarterly earnings. Of course, American executives will still feel pressure to meet the Wall Street consensus on quarterly earnings. But that pressure will be much lower if company chiefs are not trying to meet their own public predictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); EXECUTIVES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (82%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%) United States Chamber of Commerce

PERSON: Robert C Pozen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



48 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe in Accord on Air Routes

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

DATELINE: PARIS, March 2 

 BODY:
Negotiators for the European Union and the United States reached a preliminary agreement on Friday to all but eliminate restrictions on trans-Atlantic air routes, a breakthrough in talks aimed at increasing the number of flights and lowering fares.
 Europe's transport commissioner, Jacques Barrot, said the European Commission had made ''decisive progress'' in talks with United States negotiators in Brussels toward concluding a hard-fought ''open skies'' agreement. Mr. Barrot said he intended to submit a draft proposal to European transport ministers on March 22. 
 In Washington, the deal needs Congressional approval before the rules would take effect on Oct. 28.
 ''The open-aviation area could be a centerpiece for a reinvigorated trans-Atlantic relationship,'' Mr. Barrot said. 
 An accord would allow European airlines to fly into the United States from anywhere in the bloc, which has 27 member nations, instead of from just their home countries.
 At the same time, restrictions on United States airlines flying to Europe would be loosened, effectively removing barriers that now grant only two carriers -- American Airlines and Delta Air Lines -- the right to fly into Heathrow Airport near London.
 The transportation secretary, Mary Peters, who announced the deal in Washington, said it would offer more choice and convenience to consumers. The trans-Atlantic market represents 60 percent of global air traffic, according to the International Air Transport Association trade group.
 The outline of an agreement was reached in November 2005, but the deal stalled after officials in Brussels said the United States must change rules governing foreign ownership of American airline companies.
 The Bush administration tried for more than a year to persuade Congress to approve such changes -- which limit equity ownership by foreign airlines in American carriers to 25 percent of the voting stock -- but abandoned the effort in December after opposition from unions and several United States airlines.
 The commission said on Friday that the United States and Europe had agreed on ''rights in the area of ownership, investment and control of U.S. airlines by E.U. investors,'' although it did not provide details.
 But one European official, who asked not to be identified because the deal has not yet been approved, said Washington had agreed to allow European airlines to acquire more than 50 percent of the total capital of a United States airline without risking a legal challenge from Washington.
 Washington can now block investments that exceed such limits for national security reasons.
 The change does not alter the 25 percent cap on voting equity for European airlines that buy stakes in United States carriers, the official said.
 According to the official, the commission said the United States had also agreed to drop rules that restrict the rights of European airlines to buy into airlines in other non-European countries that have bilateral aviation agreements with the United States.
 If a European airline buys, for example, an African carrier, the buyer cannot now automatically acquire the right that the African carrier may have to fly to the United States, because Washington would view it as a European airline.
 The commission said the draft agreement would grant several other new rights to European carriers, including the right to fly from the United States to non-European countries and to have access to the ''Fly America'' program for the transport of passengers and cargo financed by the United States government.
 Airline industry officials cautiously welcomed news of the preliminary agreement.
 ''It's a step in the right direction,'' said Anthony Concil, a spokesman for the International Air Transport Association.
 The Association of European Airlines -- which represents carriers including British Airways, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM -- said the draft agreement appeared to show the United States moving toward meeting European demands on investment and ownership.
 ''Our initial reaction is that there seems to be a substantially improved balance in the wording of the agreement,'' Ulrich Schulte-Strathaus, secretary general of the Association of European Airlines, said in a statement.
 The airline industry has long argued that an open-skies treaty would increase capacity and competition on lucrative trans-Atlantic routes, thereby bringing lower fares. But some economists predicted that it would take some time for the traveling public to see the effects of any deal.
 ''Given the fares that are available at the moment, I find it hard to believe that they will fall much further from where they are now, '' said Peter Morris, chief economist with Ascend, an aviation industry consultancy in London.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Saturday about a draft accord on trans-Atlantic air routes misidentified one of only two United States carriers that are allowed to fly into London's Heathrow Airport, a right that will be expanded to other airlines under the new agreement. Along with American Airlines, United Airlines currently flies into Heathrow; Delta Air Lines does not.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An airport in Dresden, Germany. A tentative agreement has been reached to ease restrictions on air routes. (Photo by Matthias Rietschel/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Treaties; Airports; Heathrow Airport (London); Airlines and Airplanes; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (54%) European Union; American Airlines; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%)

PERSON: MARY PETERS (78%) Mary E (Sec) Peters; Jacques (Comr) Barrott; Nicola Clark

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); GERMANY (92%) Europe; London (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



49 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: A Double Shot Of Nostalgia For Starbucks

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Is it possible that there are actually two Howard Schultzes lurking around Starbucks headquarters in Seattle? I think it is.
 The first Howard Schultz is the man who has coffee in his veins. He's the one who bought what was then the tiny Starbucks company in 1987 and turned it into one of the dominant brands of the age. Starbucks coffee was a step above other coffee, and it also offered a ''coffee experience'' that made customers willing to pay $4 for something that used to cost them 60 cents.
Starbucks was a place where people could hang out, read the paper, and make friends with the ''baristas'' behind the counter; Mr. Schultz used to call it the ''third place,'' a respite from both the workplace and the home front. Starbucks had its own language and culture. Its part-time staff got stock options and health insurance. It didn't exploit its coffee growers. It had a huge social responsibility program. And Mr. Schultz, who is chairman of Starbucks, took deep pride in all the things that made Starbucks special. 
 Last week, this Mr. Schultz was on vivid display when an internal memo he wrote to his top executives was leaked to Starbucksgossip.com. The memo is a cri de coeur from Mr. Schultz, a lament for what has been lost as Starbucks has grown from 6 stores in 1987 to more than 13,000 stores today. He pointed, for instance, to the company's decision some years ago to install automatic espresso machines, which, he wrote, ''solved a major problem in terms of speed and service,'' but also made buying a cup of Starbucks coffee a more antiseptic experience. 
 He complained about the loss of aroma because the baristas no longer scooped fresh coffee beans from bins and ground them in front of customers. He said that streamlining the company's store designs had caused them to lose ''the soul of the past and reflect a chain of stores vs. the warm feeling of a neighborhood store.'' He said that the Starbucks experience was becoming commoditized, and he urged the executive team to ''go back to the core.'' 
 The memo was widely lauded as an example of an entrepreneur who understood the importance of recapturing what made his business special before it was too late. ''While I wouldn't argue that the Starbucks brand is in its death knell, I would argue that the efficiencies and economies of scale have introduced a virus in need of serious care,'' wrote Mike Neiss on the Web site of the Tom Peters Company. ''And it looks like Howard Schultz just might be the healer they need.''
 Warren Bennis, the leadership guru who has served as an informal mentor to Mr. Schultz, said, ''This is something every successful chief executive should do every once in a while.'' 
 But then there's the other Howard Schultz, the one who signed off on the very compromises he complained about in the memo, precisely because they would help the company grow faster. This second Howard Schultz can talk Wall Street's language: he goes on the quarterly conference calls and spits out data about same-store sales, return on investment, and, most of all, growth. Though it has lagged recently, his company's stock price has risen 5,000 percent since it went public in 1992, in large part because Mr. Schultz has been so fanatical about growth. It closed yesterday at $29.88.
 ''Starbucks is the fastest-growing retail story of all time,'' said John Glass, an analyst with CIBC. ''It has grown faster than McDonald's ever did.'' 
 This second Howard Schultz shows no signs of slowing down anytime soon. ''I want to say this as loud as I possibly can,'' he told Maria Bartiromo on CNBC last November, after Starbucks released its quarterly earnings. ''Three to five years, 20 percent revenue growth, 20 to 25 percent earnings per-share growth. And we're headed to 40,000 stores.'' Those are astounding goals for a company the size of Starbucks: no company in history has ever built 40,000 retail outlets. (McDonald's, by contrast, has 30,000 stores worldwide.) And 25 percent earnings growth is something only the most aggressive of growth companies shoot for.
 The quandary Mr. Schultz faces, assuming there is only one of him, is that he wants two things that are incompatible. If he wants to recapture the soul of the old Starbucks, then he has to slow down the company's growth. But if he slows the growth, the stock will collapse. He has to choose. Truth is, though, Mr. Schultz has already chosen.
 ONCE, maybe 10 years ago, Mr. Bennis asked Mr. Schultz why it was so important to him that Starbucks grow so rapidly. ''He said something to the effect that if he didn't do it, Starbucks could be cannibalized by another chain that would wipe it out,'' Mr. Bennis told me.
 As I discovered when I asked around, Mr. Schultz is an enormously competitive businessman; I wound up thinking that the idea of relentless growth is just as powerful a driving force for him as coffee itself. In the memo, he complained that Starbucks' competitors have become emboldened to go after Starbucks customers. ''This must be eradicated,'' were the startling words he used.
 But to give him his due, Mr. Schultz has always struggled with the problem of trying to stay true to the company's roots while growing aggressively. ''Last October or November, he made comments very similar to the thoughts in the memo at a dinner with investors,'' Mr. Glass said. And according to Anne Saunders, Starbucks' senior vice president for global brand strategy, what he wrote in the memo was nothing Starbucks executives hadn't heard from him many times in the past. ''Howard is often challenging us,'' she said. 
 ''We have grown as a company because we have chosen to do business in a different kind of way,'' she continued. ''If growth comes from doing things that are out of whack, then it is not the right kind of growth.'' Ms. Saunders went on to say that she, and the rest of the company's managers, believed that the company had grown in ways that remained compatible with its culture.
 Maybe. But from where I'm sitting, it just looks as though whenever push has come to shove, the growth imperative has usually won out.
 Take, for instance, food. ''I remember when Starbucks went public,'' said Ron Paul of Technomic, a food retail consulting firm. ''I went to one of the roadshow presentations. Howard said that they would never serve food. He thought it would dilute the experience.'' (A Starbucks spokeswoman said Mr. Schultz was pointing out that Starbucks was a coffee company, not a restaurant chain.)
 But one of the most important metrics for Wall Street is same-store sales increases. If growth is being generated purely from the opening of new stores -- and not from increased sales in stores that are already open -- that's viewed as a bad sign. It means that once the company runs out of places to put stores, it will stop growing. For Starbucks, there was always going to be a limit to how much coffee it could sell in any one location, so to goose same-store sales, it began selling food. (Not very good food either, but that's a whole other story.) Most recently, it has begun selling hot breakfast sandwiches in a number of markets, yet another move it would never have made, say, five years ago. The same principle applies to music, to books and all the other things Starbucks now sells in its stores.
 The food and brand consultants I spoke to were unanimous in their feeling that Starbucks had hurt itself by expanding so far beyond its coffee and coffeehouse roots -- and that it needed to return to those roots. ''He is right that Starbucks is losing its soul,'' said Harvey Hartman, who heads the Hartman Group in Bellevue, Wash. ''They were built on the coffee experience, and by moving so far beyond that, they are jeopardizing everything else.'' 
 Robert Passikoff, president of the brand consultant Brand Keys, said that Starbucks had taken its eye off the brand. ''In trying to migrate from a coffee brand to a lifestyle brand, there has been a certain brand dilution.'' He agreed that the ''whole European coffeehouse experience'' was no longer how people thought about Starbucks, to the company's detriment. Mr. Passikoff's firm just completed a survey of 20,000 people by phone and in person that showed that Dunkin' Donuts now had higher customer loyalty than Starbucks. He also pointed out that Consumer Reports recently asserted that McDonald's coffee was superior to Starbucks's. Both Mr. Passikoff and Mr. Hartman felt that the memo made a great deal of sense.
 The Wall Street folks I spoke to, though, saw the memo differently -- as a kind of longing for a memory that will never return. ''When you grow as big and as fast as they have, you have to make compromises,'' said Howard Penney, who covers the company for Prudential. ''The complexity of the menu has changed dramatically since it first opened,'' he said. That complexity required automation and other techniques to keep waits for coffee from being too long. (As anyone who buys Starbucks coffee in New York knows, the company doesn't always succeed.) 
 Mr. Glass of CIBC said: ''If it remained a coffee destination and nothing else, same-store sales would not increase. It's a public company. Their job is to make money for the shareholders by selling more stuff.'' Both Mr. Glass and Mr. Penney pointed out that Starbucks plans to open 2,400 stores this year. That's more than six new stores every day. Tell me how you're going to do that if the baristas start grinding coffee by hand again?
 Of course, that's never going to happen, as Ms. Saunders of Starbucks quickly acknowledged when we spoke. ''Our business has never been better,'' she said. ''We are really doing well.'' But the company didn't want to ever rest on its laurels -- and it didn't want to sacrifice what made it special just for the sake of growth, she said. ''The question is always, How do you keep things in balance?''
 For lovers of Starbucks, I suppose it's comforting to know that Mr. Schultz and his team sit around worrying about whether they are watering down the customer experience. But it would be even more comforting if they actually did something about it. Because someday, the growth will slow and the stock will slide -- that's inevitable. And how will customers feel if, when that happens, their customer experience has been turned into a drive-through window, just like McDonald's.
 Oops, I forgot. Starbucks has already started putting in drive-through windows.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Schultz has made Starbucks, and its cups, ubiquitous. (Photo by Ted S. Warren/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Starbucks's 13,000 stores include one in the Forbidden City in Beijing. Howard Schultz, the company chairman, says he wants 40,000. (Photo by Peter Parks/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE (89%); COFFEE FARMING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (53%); STOCK OPTIONS (68%) Restaurants; Company and Organization Profiles; Coffee; Restaurants

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Starbucks Corp

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (94%) Joe Nocera; Howard Schultz

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



50 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: A Plunge, Mixed Data and Some Mixed Messages

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
WORRIES about the global economy rattled stock markets around the world this week, paring billions and billions of dollars from the value of investors' holdings. The drops, while significant, were still modest by historical standards.
 The market quake came just as the private equity buyout binge set a record -- coincidentally in the proposed buyout of a major electric utility, a reliable source of dividends and an investment normally considered a safe haven in a declining market.WILD RIDE -- Starting with a 9 percent drop in Shanghai, a wave of frantic selling washed over the world's stock markets on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 500 points, to recover somewhat and close down 416, or 3.3 percent.
The broadest measure of stock prices, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, lost nearly 3.5 percent of its value, its biggest one-day decline in three and a half years. In a matter of a few hours, both benchmarks gave up their gains for the entire year. 
 Analysts blamed several factors for the volatility, including increasing concerns about a broad economic slowdown and anxiety over defaults among subprime, or high-risk, borrowers.
 A technical problem in calculating the Dow Jones average added to concern. A computer that tracks the average was overwhelmed by the volume of stock being sold. When a backup was switched on, the average appeared to plunge 300 points in a matter of minutes.
 Regulators are looking into whether the New York Stock Exchange's recent move into electronic trading may have contributed to the confusion.MIXED MESSAGES -- Orders for durable goods fell more sharply than expected and one survey showed that manufacturing activity was contracting, but another found that manufacturing was growing. Sales of existing homes rose, while sales of new homes fell. Initial unemployment claims increased, but consumers said they were more optimistic.
 Conflicting views on the direction of the economy came one atop another. Even central bankers were unable to agree on what the numbers meant. 
 The current chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, told Congress he expected ''moderate growth'' this year, with ''a reasonable possibility'' of a stronger economy in the middle of the year.
 But his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, warned that the economy might slip into recession by year's end. He told a business conference in Hong Kong that he was ''beginning to see'' signs of a slowdown, including a flattening of corporate profit growth.
 His comments came just days before the Commerce Department cut its estimate of economic growth in the last three months of 2006 to 2.2 percent from its initial estimate of 3.5 percent.
 The next major measure of economic health comes Friday, when the Labor Department reports on job creation, wages and unemployment.CASH AND CAUTION -- After several weeks of marathon negotiations, the Texas utility TXU said its board agreed to sell the company to two private equity firms, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and the Texas Pacific Group, for about $45 billion, which would be the largest buyout in history.
 To help smooth a regulatory review of the purchase, the acquirers agreed to scale back TXU's plan to build 11 coal-fired power plants and adhere to strict environmental rules. The utility's plan to build the plants, which would be a source of global-warming gases, had drawn criticism from environmentalists and others.
 The merger agreement allows TXU to solicit bids from other potential buyers through April 16, and the company said it intended to do so. The Blackstone Group is regarded as one of the most likely candidates to consider a higher offer.A BIG INSIDERS' CASE -- Federal prosecutors accused 13 people, including a Morgan Stanley compliance official, a UBS research executive and traders for hedge funds and brokerage firms, of cooperating in an insider-trading ring that netted $8 million to $15 million over five years.
 Officials said the case involved two schemes linked through a single hedge fund trader. Nine defendants were arrested before the charges were made public, and four pleaded guilty to charges ranging from securities fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud and bribery. 
 Using disposable cellphones and secret codes to make their activities difficult to detect, some suspects traded shares based on nonpublic knowledge about stock analysts' imminent buy and sell recommendations, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint. Others were supervisors who blackmailed the traders after discovering evidence of insider trading, the complaint said.
 The suspects worked at some of the biggest banks on Wall Street, including UBS, Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns. The banks have been cooperating with investigators.
 The charges carry prison sentences of 5 to 20 years in federal prison for each count.DEFYING GRAVITY -- Upending expectations, General Motors sold more cars last month than it did in February 2006, and its new Chevrolet Silverado pickup surpassed the Ford F-series as the country's best-selling vehicle.
 Other domestic automakers were not so lucky. Ford Motor sales fell 14.3 percent last month, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, while sales at DaimlerChrysler, including Mercedes-Benz, dropped 7.7 percent.
 Toyota said sales of its hybrid-electric Prius jumped 87 percent in February, as it offered incentives on the vehicle for the first time. Buyers once had to wait for as long as a year for a Prius, but sales slipped as tax breaks on the vehicle were eliminated. Still, the company is aiming for a 70 percent increase in sales this year; it sold just over 100,000 Prius cars in 2006.
 Despite the surprising bump in sales, G.M. said it would proceed with plans to reduce its overall production capacity in North America.MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Feb. 24 through March 2:1. NBC May Oust Evening News Executive 2. Coaxing More Bars Out of That Cellphone 3. With Cameras, Compromising Can Pay Off 4. For Some Aging Actors, Self-Mockery Sells 5. The Daily Fight Against Spam Links are at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Investors in Beijing checked stock prices at a securities firm this week. China's major index plummeted nearly 9 percent on Tuesday. (Photo by China Photos/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ETHICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); EXISTING HOME SALES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Housing; Sales; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Stocks and Bonds; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Bribery; Ethics; Stocks and Bonds; Frauds and Swindling; Hedge Funds; Insider Trading; Automobiles; Stocks and Bonds; Research; Production; Recession and Depression

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System; Txu Corp; Texas Pacific Group; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Ubs Ag; Morgan Stanley; Bank of America; Bear Stearns Cos; Federal Bureau of Investigation; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Mark A Stein; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Alan Greenspan; Robert Babcock; Randi Collotta; Erik R Franklin; Mitchel S Guttenberg; Ken Okada; Paul Risoli

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (57%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



51 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Predicting Steady Increase For Emissions

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The Bush administration estimates that emissions by the United States of gases that contribute to global warming will grow nearly as fast through the next decade as they did the previous decade, according to a long-delayed report being completed for the United Nations. 
 The document, the United States Climate Action Report, emphasizes that the projections show progress toward a goal Mr. Bush laid out in a 2002 speech: that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases grow at a slower rate than the economy. Since that speech, he has repeated his commitment to lessening ''greenhouse gas intensity'' without imposing formal limits on the gases.
Kristen A. Hellmer, a spokeswoman for the White House on environmental matters, said on Friday, ''The Climate Action Report will show that the president's portfolio of actions addressing climate change and his unparalleled financial commitments are working.'' 
 But when shown the report, an assortment of experts on climate trends and policy described the projected emissions as unacceptable given the rising evidence of risks from unabated global warming. 
 ''As governor of Texas and as a candidate, the president supported mandatory limits on carbon dioxide emissions,'' said David W. Conover, who directed the administration's Climate Change Technology Program until February 2006 and is now counsel to the National Commission on Energy Policy, a nonpartisan research group that supports limits on gases. ''When he announced his voluntary greenhouse-gas intensity reduction goal in 2002, he said it would be re-evaluated in light of scientific developments. The science now clearly calls for a mandatory program that establishes a price for greenhouse-gas emissions.'' 
 According to the new report, the administration's climate policy will result in emissions growing 11 percent in 2012 from 2002. In the previous decade, emissions grew at a rate of 11.6 percent, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 The report also contains sections describing growing risks to water supplies, coasts and ecosystems around the United States from the anticipated temperature and precipitation changes driven by the atmospheric buildup of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases.
 Drafts of the report were provided to The New York Times by a government employee at the request of a reporter. The employee did not say why this was done, but other officials involved with producing it said they have been frustrated with the slow pace of its preparation. It was due more than one year ago.
 The report arrives at a moment when advocates of controls are winning new support in statehouses and Congress, not to mention Hollywood, where former Vice President Al Gore's cautionary documentary on the subject, ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' just won an Academy Award. Five western governors have just announced plans to create a program to cap and then trade carbon-dioxide emissions. And on Capitol Hill, half a dozen bills have been introduced to curb emissions, with more expected.
 Ms. Hellmer defended Mr. Bush's climate policy, saying the president was committed to actions, like moderating gasoline use and researching alternative energy, that limited climate risks while also increasing the country's energy and national security. She said Mr. Bush remained satisfied with voluntary measures to slow emissions. 
 Myron Ebell, who directs climate and energy policy for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a group aligned with industries fighting curbs on greenhouse gases, said Mr. Bush was right to acknowledge the inevitability of growing emissions in a country with a growing population and economy. Mr. Ebell added that the United States was doing better at slowing emissions than many countries that had joined the Kyoto Protocol, the first binding international treaty limiting such gases. 
 ''Since 1990, for every 1 percent increase in emissions the economy has grown about 3 percent,'' Mr. Ebell said. ''That's good, and it's better than the European Union's performance.''
 Several environmental campaigners said there was no real distinction between Mr. Bush's target and ''business as usual,'' adding that such mild steps were unacceptable given recent findings by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and other research groups tying recent warming more firmly than ever to smokestack and tailpipe gases.
 ''If you set the hurdle one inch above the ground you can't fail to clear it,'' said David D. Doniger, the director of climate policy for the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has long criticized the administration and sought binding cuts in greenhouse gases.
 The report is the fourth in a series produced periodically by countries that are parties to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, a treaty signed by the first President Bush. It is a self-generated summary of climate-related trends and actions, including inventories of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, research on impacts of climate change, and policies to limit climate risks and emissions. 
 The last such report, completed in 2002, put the administration in something of a bind because it listed many harmful or costly projected impacts from human-caused warming. Environmental groups used those findings to press President Bush to seek mandatory caps on greenhouse gases, while foes of such restrictions criticized the findings and criticized the administration for letting them stay in the document . 
 While that report was approved by senior White House and State Department officials, Mr. Bush quickly distanced himself from it, saying it was ''put out by the bureaucracy.''
 The new report has been bogged down for nearly two years. In April 2005, the State Department published a notice in the Federal Register saying it would be released for public comment that summer. 
 Several government officials and scientists involved with preparing or reviewing parts of the report said that the recent departures of several senior staff members running the administration's climate research program delayed its completion and no replacements have been named. The delays in finishing the report come even as Mr. Bush has elevated global warming higher on his list of concerns. This year, for the first time since he took office in 2001, he touched on ''global climate change'' in the State of the Union Message, calling it a ''serious challenge.''
 The draft report contains fresh projections of significant effects of human-caused warming on the environment and resources of the United States and emphasized the need to increase the country's capacity to adapt to impending changes. 
 Drought, particularly, will become a persistent threat, it said: ''Warmer temperatures expected with increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases are expected to exacerbate present drought risks in the United States by increasing the rate of evaporation.''
 Water supplies in the Northwest and Southwest are also at risk. ''Much of the water used by people in the western United States comes from snow melt,'' the report said. ''And a large fraction of the traditionally snow-covered areas of this region has experienced a decline in spring snow pack, especially since mid-century, despite increases in winter precipitation in many places.'' Animal and plant species face risks as climate zones shift but urbanized regions prevent ecosystems from shifting as well, according to the draft report. 
 ''Because changes in the climate system are likely to persist into the future regardless of emissions mitigation, adaptation is an essential response for future protection of climate-sensitive ecosystems,'' it said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Comparing the Impact of Various Greenhouse Gas Policies''The Bush administration plans to release new projections of greenhouse gas emissions through 2020 in its Climate Action Report to the United Nations. Here is how the administration's projections compare with the World Resource Institute's analysis of three Senate bills announced earlier this year.CHARTS SHOW UNITED STATES EMISSIONS OF ALL GREENHOUSE GASES expressed as billions of tons of carbon dioxideIf nothing is done'Business as usual'The baseline case, which projects emissions with no policy guidance.Administration's versionMr. Bush's policiesThe emissions would rise at a slightly slower rate than 'business as usual.'Senate proposalsBills introduced by Senators Barbara Boxer, Bernard Sanders, John McCain, Joseph I. Lieberman and Jeff Bingaman.Sanders-BoxerThis is among the most stringent plans and similar to a bill by Senators John Kerry and Olympia J. Snowe.McCain-LiebermanThis proposal lowers emission limits over time but over all is less restrictive than Sanders-Boxer.Bingaman (discussion draft)Limits in this proposal are flexible and are based on projections of emissions and gross domestic product.Note: Some senators' bills include ''safety valve'' provisions that permit emissions to exceed the cap if the price of the program exceeds a certain threshold.(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (62%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%) Weather; Air Pollution; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; United States Economy; Weather

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BERNIE SANDERS (78%); JEFF BINGAMAN (73%); BARBARA BOXER (73%); AL GORE (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Andrew C Revkin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



52 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Contemplates Shared Custody of Its Top Job

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
In political circles here, a single question is being asked incessantly these days: him or her? Will President Nestor Kirchner run for a second term or will he, as seems increasingly likely, step aside and let his wife, Senator Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, become the Peronist candidate?
 It would be highly unusual for a head of state in a situation as favorable as Mr. Kirchner's to voluntarily relinquish office. The Argentine economy has grown by 8 percent or more every year since he took power in 2003, and largely as a result, two-thirds of Argentines approve of his job performance. 
 But the Kirchners seem to be playing for stakes much bigger than just the Oct. 28 election and the next four years, political analysts argue. Rather, their objective is said to be to take turns in office for at least the next dozen years.
 Term limits in Argentina are in some respect similar to those in the United States, with one important difference. Presidents here are restricted to two consecutive four-year terms, but they are allowed to return after four years on the sidelines and run again -- though no one has yet achieved that feat.
 ''If he were to be elected to a second term now, party discipline would break down and power would rapidly flow away from Kirchner,'' said Joaquin Morales Sola, the chief political columnist of the conservative daily newspaper La Nacion. ''This is the form they have found to avoid a weakened second term for him: create the possibility of eight years of Cristina and then his return.''
 The Peronist movement has a tradition, of course, of power couples that dates back 60 years, to Gen. Juan Domingo Peron and his wife Eva, the former actress who became the idol of Argentina's poor ''shirtless'' masses. But political analysts suggest that a more appropriate analogy for the Kirchners may be that of Bill and Hillary Clinton.
 Mrs. Kirchner, 54, a lawyer who has served in both houses of Congress, is not only one of her husband's trusted advisers, but also perhaps the only one able to criticize him without suffering career consequences. A foreign visitor recalls being with the president in a meeting when Mrs. Kirchner called to reproach him for something he had said in public that day; Mr. Kirchner's response was to listen quietly and dutifully concur.
 At a Feb. 24 stadium rally in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, which Mrs. Kirchner did not attend, Peronist loyalists were certainly acting as if she were already their candidate. About 20,000 people carried banners with slogans like ''With Cristina to victory'' and ''Cristina president, Kirchner leader.''
 ''We will have Cristina Kirchner as our standard-bearer, taking the oath of office as president on Dec. 10,'' said Carlos Kunkel, a member of Congress and one of the speakers. ''That is the will of all of us.''
 Recent trips abroad by Mrs. Kirchner also suggest that she is being groomed to succeed her husband. She traveled with him to a meeting of the Mercosur trade group in Brazil in January, went on her own to Paris this month to meet with the prime minister and the two main presidential candidates there, and is reported to be planning a trip to the United States in April.
 But there are also signs that some traditional segments of the Peronist movement, while willing to accept four more years of Mr. Kirchner, who is 57, are not happy at the prospect of Mrs. Kirchner as a substitute. 
 Eduardo Duhalde, the former president who handpicked Mr. Kirchner as his successor but has become one of his main critics, did not respond to requests for an interview, but has gone on record in the Argentine press with his objections.
 ''In general, I've never supported anybody without experience,'' he told Clarin, a daily newspaper here in the capital. ''I believe, as the Americans generally do, that in order to become president, you have to have administrative experience. And Cristina doesn't have the administrative experience to be president.''
 Polls consistently predict that Mrs. Kirchner would win about 10 percentage points less than her husband would in a presidential vote. His greater popularity could eventually prove important and force him to seek a second term. But at the moment, the opposition here is so fragmented and disorganized that only one candidate, Roberto Lavagna, a former minister of the economy, registers as even a possible threat.
 ''Right now, both are winners, though he is tougher to beat,'' said Felipe Noguera, a political consultant and analyst here. ''He has been a very successful president, but if you look around Latin America, second terms tend not to go that well.''
 In addition, feigning indifference to the attractions of power enhances Mr. Kirchner's popularity. ''The life and history of a people don't depend on an election,'' he said recently in a speech.
 Despite Mr. Kirchner's popularity, there are risks to his strategy. The most obvious, economists and political analysts here say, is that the inflationary pressures he has largely kept in check with price controls and export taxes are building and could explode early in the next term, no matter which of the Kirchners became president.
 ''This is going to end badly, and everybody knows it, but when?'' asked Rosendo Fraga, director of the Center for a New Majority, a political and military research company here. ''In the meantime, the economy is piling up surpluses that allow the president to build his political power'' through the traditional Peronist system of patronage and favors.
 Early in February, the government was accused of manipulating the official inflation rate, after the official in charge of calculating the index was replaced. The official figure was 1.1 percent, but economists and stock market analysts, more than 200 of whom signed a statement saying that the changes in personnel and methodology ''generate distrust,'' maintain that the real rate may have been as much as twice that.
 No one, except perhaps the Kirchners themselves, seems to know how long the waiting game over the presidential nominee will continue. By law, a final decision is not required until two months before the election, which gives Mr. Kirchner plenty of time to ratchet up the suspense.
 ''There is no need for him to define himself now, neither legally nor politically,'' Mr. Fraga said. ''To do so is to lose the freedom of action and maneuverability he cherishes.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and her husband, Nestor Kirchner, president of Argentina, center, visiting the New York Stock Exchange on Sept. 20, with John A. Thain, right, the exchange's chief executive. (Photo by Stuart Ramson/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (64%); WRITERS (64%) Politics and Government; Elections; Term Limits (Political Office)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (93%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOHN THAIN (58%) Larry Rohter; Nestor (Pres) Kirchner; Cristina Fernandez De (Sen) Kirchner

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Argentina; Argentina

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



53 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: An Afghan Policy Built on Pipe Dreams

BYLINE: By RORY STEWART. 
Rory Stewart's latest book is the ''The Prince of the Marshes and Other Occupational Hazards of a Year in Iraq.'' He runs the Turquoise Mountain Foundation in Kabul and is a guest columnist this month.

 BODY:
The international community's policy in Afghanistan is based on the claim that Afghans are willing partners in the creation of a liberal democratic state. Senator John McCain finished a recent speech on Afghanistan by saying, ''Billions of people around the world now embrace the ideals of political, economic and social liberty, conceived in the West, as their own.'' 
 In Afghanistan in January, Tony Blair thanked Afghans by saying ''we're all in this together'' and placing them in ''the group of people who want to live in peace and harmony with each other, whatever your race or your background or your religion.'' 
Such language is inaccurate, misleading and dangerous.
 Afghans, like Americans, do not want to be abducted and tortured. They want a say in who governs them, and they want to feed their families. But reducing their needs to broad concepts like ''human rights,'' ''democracy'' and ''development'' is unhelpful.
 For many Afghans, sharia law is central. Others welcome freedom from torture, but not free media or freedom of religion; majority rule, but not minority rights; full employment, but not free-market reforms. ''Warlords'' retain considerable power. Millions believe that alcohol should be forbidden and apostates killed, that women should be allowed in public only in burqas. Many Pusthu clearly prefer the Taliban to foreign troops. 
 Yet senior officials with long experience with Afghanistan often deny this reality. They insist that Taliban fighters have next to no local support and are purely Pakistani agents. The U.N. argues that ''warlords'' have little power and that the tribal areas can rapidly be brought under central control. The British defense secretary predicted last summer that British troops in Helmand Province could return ''without a bullet fired.'' Afghan cabinet ministers insist that narcotics growth and corruption can be ended and the economy can wean itself off foreign aid in five years. None of this is true. And most of them half-know it.
 It is not only politicians who misrepresent the facts. Nonprofit groups endorse the fashionable jargon of state-building and civil society, partly to win grants. Military officers are reluctant to admit their mission is impossible. Journalists were initially surprisingly optimistic about transforming Afghanistan. No one wants to seem to endorse a status quo dominated by the Taliban and drugs. Humankind cannot bear very much reality, particularly in Afghanistan. 
 Does it matter? Most people see our misrepresentations as an unappealing but necessary part of international politics. The problem is that we act on the basis of our own lies. British soldiers were killed because they were not prepared for the Helmand insurgency. In the same province, the coalition recommended a Western-friendly technocrat as governor; he was so isolated and threatened he could barely leave his office. Hundreds of millions of dollars invested in anticorruption efforts, and the police and the counternarcotics ministry, has been wasted on Afghans with no interest in our missions. Other programs are perceived as a threat to local culture and have bred anger and resentment.
 Still others have raised expectations we cannot fulfill, betraying our friends. I experienced this in Iraq, where I encouraged two friends to start gender and civil society programs; we were unable to protect them, and both were killed. Even when we fail, instead of recognizing the errors of the initial assessment and the mission, we blame problems in implementation and repeat false and illogical claims in order to acquire more money and troops. 
 The time has come to be honest about the limits of our power and the Afghan reality. This is not to counsel despair. There is no fighting in the streets of Kabul, the Hazara in the center of the country are more secure and prosperous than at almost any time in their history, and the economy grew last year by 18 percent. These are major achievements. With luck and the right kind of international support, Afghanistan can become more humane, prosperous and stable.
 But progress will be slow. Real change can come only from within, and we have less power in Afghanistan than we claim. We must speak truthfully about this situation. Our lies betray Afghans and ultimately ourselves. And the cost in lives, opportunities and reputation is unbearable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); RELIGION (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (73%); TONY BLAIR (56%) Rory Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



54 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Big Profits, Big Worries In Oil Fields

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil companies have made super profits the last few years thanks to record high oil prices. Chevron, the second-largest American oil company, earned $17 billion in 2006. But oil is harder to find and more expensive to produce. David J. O'Reilly, 60, Chevron's chairman and chief executive, spoke recently about the challenges big oil companies face in meeting growing oil demand, how technology has advanced the search for oil, the message behind Chevron's recent ads and the lack of an energy policy in the United States. Following are excerpts:Q. Is there enough oil out there to meet the world's growing demand for energy? A. I think the answer is yes, certainly in the foreseeable future. Now, it is not in easy-to-get-to places or easy-to-recover places. We are accessing more molecules through technology. The Gulf of Mexico has been given up on a number of times and it keeps coming back from the dead. Technology allows us to go further and find oil in places we never thought we could find oil. It's not so much the molecules, it's the access to the molecules, either through technology or through the permission. 
 One of the issues is offshore access in the United States. You know, the Europeans have a much more progressive attitude toward this. The Norwegians produce oil offshore, the British do, the Dutch do, the Danish do. All these people produce oil offshore. And yet we, in our country, don't seem to be able to come to terms with doing this effectively. There are many areas of our offshore that have not yet been explored.Q. Some of your advertisements make a point that the rate of consumption is higher than new discoveries. That seems like a compelling argument that there is a problem. What should we make of that? A. One of the reasons for the ad is to draw people's attention to the fact that, look, this is not an unlimited resource and it's one that we ought to use carefully. Behind those ads, I think, you will see a clear message for the need for the public to be more energy-efficient and to treat conservation as a value. This is not an unlimited resource. If you believe the projected growth rates for energy demand, we are going to need to use it efficiently and we're also going to need to develop all the resources as we can as efficiently as we can across the board. And it's not just oil and gas: it's nuclear, it's coal, it's renewables. I mean, they all have a role to play. It takes leadership, I think, to recognize that it's not a matter of not doing this or not doing that. But it's a matter of doing this and doing that. All the way from the more efficient use of it to the multiple sources of supply. Q. How do you break through that debate? It seems energy policy in the United States is such an entrenched topic.A. Well, we don't have an energy policy. We have discussions about different people's views and what their answer is. I think one of the things we've been pounding on for a couple of years now is the need for an energy policy that looks at this holistically and recognize it for what it is. There are a lot of ways of answering these questions. There are multiple answers. There doesn't have to be a fight about this. It is too important.Q. There is also this notion of energy security that has crept into the debate and the notion that there is a competition for resources from which the United States needs to insulate itself. A. I think that's the wrong answer. It's a very simplistic answer. When you are importing two-thirds of the oil we use and a lot of the gas we use, the best energy security is when the globe is secure. And I mean the globe secure holistically, broadly, as well as in an energy way. If you have any one of the major players on the demand or supply side that feels threatened or isolated, I think it's a bad thing for the globe. We are interdependent. We have gone way past the point of independence on anything. Q. Do you sense a retreat in the U.S. role or capacity in the energy world? After all, this was an industry that was invented by Americans.A. The U.S. industry, at times, has played a bigger role. But the reality is that what you're seeing happening in the oil industry is probably very similar to what you see happening in the other elements in the global economy. Companies like ours are bigger than we were 10 years ago, and much bigger than we were 50 years ago, but we're a smaller piece of the total global energy pie, because that global energy pie has grown so much bigger and there are so many more participants in it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: DAVID J. O'REILLY 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); OIL EXPLORATION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); UTILITY RATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Advertising and Marketing; Industry Profiles

ORGANIZATION: Chevron Corp

PERSON: DAVID J O'REILLY (88%) David J O'Reilly; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (79%); NETHERLANDS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007



55 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; WEEKEND IN NEW YORK SCAVENGER HUNT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Point and Shoot for Bonus Points

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
ONE reason people visit New York is to catch a glimpse of things they'd never see in the average American city. Some such sights are mystifying, some charming, some jaw-dropping -- and some are even legal.
 This week, Weekend in New York offers a photo scavenger hunt, in which you (working alone or in a group) seek out scenes and objects intrinsically New York and capture them with your camera. The hunt could be the centerpiece of your weekend, but also could serve as just a way to enhance your downtime as you wander from restaurant to park to museum, observing the natives in their natural habitat. 
If competing against others, award two points to the team that does the best in each category, and one point to anyone coming in a reasonably close second. Or, if you're playing alone, just award a whole bunch of points to your own team and declare yourself the winner.FOOD
 Biggest crowd waiting for a brunch table: Sociologists are unable to explain it, so why should you even try? New Yorkers like to wait -- arms crossed and toes tapping, of course -- as long as possible for their first meal on Sunday. To qualify, those waiting must be huddled on the sidewalk.
 Worst bagel/cream cheese or spread combo: Blueberry bagel with olive tofu spread? You can do better (worse) than that. Either a photo of the offending sandwich or, if you don't dare order it, separate photos of the elements qualify. 
 Most expensive pizza slice -- cheese only: The price of a slice of plain old cheese pizza is always creeping up. What's the highest you can find? (Hint: $2 probably won't win.) 
 Most expensive slice, no toppings barred: Add chicken or basil or bacon or artichokes or gold leaf, and watch the price take off like a pickpocket being chased in the subway. 
 Most unusual-looking fruit or vegetable for sale: If it can get through customs, it's somewhere in this city. BUSINESS
 The A.T.M. charging you the most outrageous amount for a withdrawal: $2 minimum. 
 Most newspaper/magazine dispensers on one street corner: They're often chained together, and the ones with things you'd actually want to read are empty or require your pockets to be jingle-jangle-jingling with quarters.
 Most out-of-town and/or foreign language newspapers at one newsstand: In some parts of town, you'd think fans of Le Monde and La Gazzetta dello Sport and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung had never heard of the Internet.
 Cheesiest Statue of Liberty-related tourist souvenir. 
 Multiple Starbucks in one picture: Two, certainly; three is a challenge.TRANSPORTATION
 Best parallel parking job: The city's drivers know that if a parking space is an inch longer than their car, they can ooze in. Be sure to photograph both the front and back ends. 
 Vehicle with multiple parking tickets: The easy-to-spot orange envelopes should be on the windshield or clearly visible inside the car. Old tickets that truck drivers place to avoid reticketing are valid, as are tickets ripped apart in rage.
 Most yellow cabs in one photo: No fair taking an aerial shot from the top of the Empire State Building.LIVING CREATURES
 Most unlikely companions: Some New York restaurants specialize in unusual wine and food pairings, but the entire city specializes in unusual people pairings. Is that fashionable babe really dating that pitiful slob? Is that silver-haired guy about three times that woman's age? Is that a rabbi necking with a Senegalese hair stylist? (100 points for the last one.)
 Best-dressed dog: And by that, we mean worst-dressed dog.
 Most dogs with one human: In New York, money buys anything, including the guy or gal who comes to your house, picks up your dog and drags it and a bunch of others to the park. Absolute minimum: four dogs.
 Pedestrian triple-tasking: Someone doing at least three things at once, one of which is walking down the street -- plus eating and talking on cellphone; listening to iPod and reading magazine; or knitting and screaming at friend. 
 Pedestrian stupid-tasking. Someone who is text-messaging while crossing a hyper-busy street, something that could soon be illegal in New York City.
 Picture of a celebrity on the street: Trick question! In New York you're supposed to ignore celebrities. Minus 20 points.
 Someone using a pay phone: Not too common these days; even less common, two people using adjacent pay phones (double points).
 A traffic police officer smiling: It's a tough life giving out tickets to the roughly seven million cars that are breaking parking laws at any one time. Subjected to nasty looks and verbal lashings, these officers don't have much to smile about. 
 Anyone wearing George W. Bush paraphernalia (hat, T-shirt, full body tattoo): Manhattan voted 82 percent to 17 percent for John Kerry over Mr. Bush in 2004. The word on the street is that the president's popularity has not increased. NONEDIBLE INANIMATE OBJECTS 
 Public advertisements or notices in languages other than English: one point for each language. Spanish is a freebie, kind of like the space in the middle of a bingo card. (Starting clue: Check out the signs about being in one of the first five cars on the No. 1 train to South Ferry.)
 Most amusing spelling or translation error: Combine immigrant store owners with immigrant sign makers and what do you get? An entrepreneurial spirit that keeps the city's economic engine humming? Yeah, sure, but also errors terrible enough to drive language sticklers insane.
 Most monstrous baby stroller: It's not that strollers aren't monstrous everywhere, but here the sidewalks, store aisles and bystander tolerance are narrower. 
 Most unusual piece of refuse: A city that collects the strangest things also discards the strangest things, and they don't all fit in a trash bag.
 Most intellectual book being read in public: O.K., or perhaps just used as a prop to attract a Ms. or Mr. Right prone to lugging around a copy of ''Gravity's Rainbow.'' If you hear someone say, ''Oh, you're into Kierkegaard'' -- whirl, point and shoot.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoots, and scores: Garlic bagel with scallion-tofu cream cheese and jelly
rare phone booth in use
smiling traffic officer
 and snug parking. (Photographs by Robert Caplin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); NEWSSTANDS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (54%) Scavenger Hunts; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



56 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Astronaut Will Be Among First On the Grand Canyon Walkway

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
On March 20, the second man on the Moon, Buzz Aldrin, will lead the first walk across Skywalk, the cantilevered glass semicircular walkway that juts out 70 feet over the Grand Canyon and 4,000 feet above the Colorado River in Arizona. 
 The walkway, right, which will open to the public on March 28, is made of two million pounds of glass and steel and cost more than $30 million to construct. It is the centerpiece of a development plan called Grand Canyon West. The group behind the project -- which will include a 6,000-square-foot visitors center, with a museum, a movie theater, a gift shop and several restaurants -- is the Hualapai Indian tribe, which also has a reservation on the million acres of land they own on the western rim of the canyon.
 The reservation, 242 miles east of Grand Canyon National Park, which has 4.1 million visitors a year, had fewer than 300,000 visitors last year, 90 percent of them from helicopter and airplane package tours and ground tours. 
 ''Most people didn't even know this area existed,'' said Allison Raskansky, director of marketing for Grand Canyon West. She also said that the tribe would continue to operate the only one-day whitewater-rafting trip through the canyon. 
 Although the project is expected to bring more tourists and revenue to the small reservation, which has only 2,000 residents and unemployment that reaches 70 percent in the off-season, environmentalists worry that it will be a blemish on the natural beauty of the canyon. 
 ''Our position on all development in the canyon is to keep it away,'' said Sandy Bahr, a spokeswoman for the Grand Canyon Chapter of the Sierra Club. ''The Hualapai tribe owns the land and can do what they want, but we prefer to let the canyon speak for itself.''
 Besides the skywalk, visitors will also be able to visit Grand Canyon West's Indian Village, with authentic dwellings built by five tribes; the Hualapai Market, where local artisans demonstrate their crafts; and the Ranch, a Western town with wagon and horseback rides along the canyon's rim. 
 Sheri Yellowhawk, chief executive of the Grand Canyon Resort Corporation, which is owned by the Hualapai tribe, of which she is a member, said: ''It is not like we are building a ride. The tourist center is made of materials that match the canyon and will look like rock. It is also in a side canyon, out of view.''
 The Skywalk will be open from dawn to dusk with a maximum of 120 people allowed on it at any one time. Tickets will cost $25 a person in addition to a Grand Canyon West entry fee. Reservations are recommended; www.destinationgrandcanyon.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Grand Canyon West) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (74%); FILM (74%); BOATING & RAFTING (72%); TOUR OPERATORS (72%); RESORTS (71%); TOUR PACKAGES (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HELICOPTERS (67%); TOURISM (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Indians, American; Hualapai Indians

ORGANIZATION: Grand Canyon West (Co)

PERSON: Buzz Aldrin; Jennifer Conlin

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Grand Canyon National Park

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



57 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Has Real Estate Lost Its Sizzle? Not on the Farm

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
SOARING crop prices, strong export markets and growing demand for biofuels are adding up to good times for many American farmers. So it's not surprising that farmland, particularly in the upper Midwest, has begun to reflect that good fortune with rapidly rising prices. 
 The Fed can always print more money but it can't create new farmland, which has generally been rising in value since the late 1980s. From 2002 through 2005, American farmland appreciated by roughly 50 percent, according to Agriculture Department data. Farmland's traditional investment appeal includes steady income from rents, along with appreciation that has tended to run ahead of inflation.
But since September, Midwestern banks and real estate brokers report, land has become a torrid commodity, with prices in Illinois, Iowa and other nearby states climbing by as much as 20 percent. Tom Archbold, senior vice president for farm ranch and timber management at U.S. Bank in Fargo, N.D., speaks of a client who had land in Nebraska appraised at $3,200 an acre late last year. Three months later, it fetched $3,850 an acre at auction in Lincoln. 
 Apart from farmers, the biggest beneficiaries of the land rush have been well-heeled investors like pension funds and university endowments. The Hancock Agricultural Investment Group, for instance, manages portfolios of farm properties for large investors and reports returns of better than 20 percent for each of the last three years. But the minimum investment is $40 million. 
 For those with less money to invest, the choices for participating in the farmland boom have been slim. If they already own land but don't farm it, they can turn to a bank like JPMorgan Chase or U.S. Bank to manage their property for a fee. If they have a residence in Canada, they can buy farmland in Saskatchewan through the Agriculture Development Corporation, a private company, for a minimum buy-in of $20,000. 
 Otherwise, they can invest indirectly in farmland through a commodities-tracking mutual fund like Pimco Commodity RealReturn Strategy or a commodities-based exchange-traded fund like Powershares DB Agriculture. 
 Or they can simply follow the lead of Bob Wise, a software developer on Merritt Island, Fla., who concluded that the best way to enjoy farmland appreciation was to buy it directly. 
 Mr. Wise first bought a parcel of Iowa farmland in 1995 and reports that, between rent and appreciation, the investment has returned 12.5 percent, annualized. Last year, he bought a second Iowa property. Over the years, he had looked for ways to invest in farmland through financial vehicles designed for smaller investors. ''I never found one,'' he said. 
 But Wall Street is beginning to see an opportunity in broadening the market for this asset class. UBS AgriVest, a farmland investment subsidiary of UBS, which until recently confined its farmland investment portfolios to larger investors, now has a fund that can accommodate individual investors. But participants must meet the Securities and Exchange Commission's definition of an ''accredited investor,'' requiring net worth of at least $1 million or annual earnings of at least $200,000 (or $300,000 when combined with those of a spouse). 
 Other financial services giants, including JPMorgan, which manages two million acres of farmland for its clients, are considering the creation of farmland investment products. ''There's definitely been talk of that. I have been approached by our investment bank asking about that,'' said Steve Wright, Midwest regional manager for JPMorgan's farm and ranch management unit in Lafayette, Ind.
 Jeffrey A. Conrad, president of the Hancock Agricultural Investment Group, said, ''Over time we have thought about tapping the retail market,'' with offerings for less-affluent investors.
 And Mr. Archbold of U.S. Bank said that a farmland investment product ''is certainly being talked about now.'' 
 Prices are rising for many types of agricultural land. The Hancock Agricultural Investment Group, for example, has produced a sparkling three-year annualized return of 28.2 percent on its farmland investments. ''A lot of the performance,'' Mr. Conrad said, ''has been driven by almonds and pistachios.'' Those nuts have benefited from a relatively weak dollar, which aids exports, and from research suggesting that they may contribute to cardiovascular health. 
 But Mr. Conrad notes that demand has inspired new plantings of almonds, potentially unbalancing the favorable supply-demand equation. Values of almond and pistachio acreage ''could trend downward'' he said. 
 Land that is now attractive, he said, includes property in Wisconsin for growing cranberries and in Washington State for apples. 
 Relatively low interest rates and improving crop yields have also been factors in farmland's appreciation. Another was the collapse of other sectors of the real estate market. Many investors in residential and commercial property have taken advantage of a tax provision that allows them to defer capital gains taxes if they exchange one income-producing property for another. In the last few years, with other assets peaking, many property owners have traded to farmland. 
 In parts of Colorado, Oklahoma, Kansas and Nebraska, drought has blunted the spike in farm values, said Elizabeth Hund, senior vice president of the food and agribusiness group at U.S. Bank in Denver. But in Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana and Ohio, land prices have been rising. Iowa farmland has appreciated for four consecutive years, to new records, with some land now fetching $6,000 or more an acre.
 In Illinois, where farmland values have declined in just five years since 1970, land prices are also at record levels. The chief reason -- in a word -- is corn. 
 Just before the harvest last fall, corn fetched roughly $2.20 a bushel. In less than six months since, it has nearly doubled in price. Commodity prices are notoriously volatile, but in this case the futures market suggests that corn will not beat a rapid retreat from its new plateau. The October 2008 price for corn is hovering around $3.50 a bushel, and many farmers are selling their corn forward to lock in the higher levels, said Michael Duffy, professor of economics at Iowa State University.
 To maximize the benefit of high corn prices, farmers have shifted land from other crops, tightening supply and lifting prices of wheat, oats and soybeans. 
 How long can all of this last, especially when many analysts say corn will eventually be displaced as the preferred feedstock for ethanol? Professor Duffy says he is confident that land values will hold for five years, but not so confident about the 10-year outlook. ''I don't see the potential for a major disruption in land values over the next five years,'' he said. 
 For one thing, farmers can lock in high corn prices for delivery two years out, helping to stabilize the land's revenue potential. And he doesn't expect new sources of cellulosic ethanol -- ethanol produced from the cellulose of a variety of plant fibers -- to displace corn soon. 
 But they could in time. Although corn is currently the sole source for ethanol in the United States, the supply of ethanol feedstocks may eventually become ''decentralized,'' according to Mr. Archbold of U.S. Bank. Potential sources include nonfood crops like grasses and fast-growing trees that can be grown in more marginal soil, as well as plant waste. Universities, start-ups backed by venture capital, and giant oil companies are all engaged in research to find corn's successor. 
 Perhaps this explains near-term optimism and long-term concern acrossthe Corn Belt. 
 ''Is this a long-term effect or a short-term effect?'' asked Gene Traetow, who runs a real estate and farm management business in Denver, Iowa. ''We're leery it'll be long term. But we feel for the next two to four years, corn and land prices will be in an upswing.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pistachios being harvested on a farm in Tulare County, Calif. The Hancock Agricultural Investment Group manages the property, one of its farmland investments. (Photo by Hancock Agricultural Investment Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BIOFUELS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ENDOWMENTS (66%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (53%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Agriculture; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Biofuels; Farmers; Renting and Leasing ; Agriculture

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Agriculture Department

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: Norm Alster

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (56%) MIDWEST USA (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



58 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Are Home Builders Out of the Basement Yet?

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
PRICE cuts. Amenity upgrades. Vacations. Free gas for the minivan. As the spring home-selling season looms, home builders eager to trim mounting inventories of unsold houses amid an industrywide slump are dangling these and other incentives before buyers. 
 ''For many home buyers, this is fantastic news; you couldn't find a better environment to buy right now,'' said Carl Reichardt, a housing analyst at Wachovia Securities.
But for those who happen to invest in the home-building sector, the news is more somber. 
 Investors have had to contend with home builders' shrinking profit margins, partly a result of costly incentives and deep discounts, along with less-than-stellar sales and earnings. And though their shares have rallied from last spring's nadir -- they are up 30 percent, on average, since June -- they remain 40 to 50 percent below their peak in August 2005, according to Mr. Reichardt. 
 So a new question emerges: Is this a good time to start acquiring home builders' stocks, or are they about to head south again? 
 Both Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and the National Association of Home Builders have said recently that the beleaguered housing market might finally have stabilized. And reports last week showed that in January existing-home sales rose 3 percent, though new-home sales skidded 16.6 percent. 
 Stephen Kim, a managing director at Citigroup, is optimistic. In fact, he says, ''time is running out for people to buy.'' 
 ''We think we will be entering a period where the stocks will go much more vertical in the second quarter of the year,'' he added.
 Even though earnings are depressed, Mr. Kim is encouraged by a slowdown in the decline of new orders and in the percentage of buyer cancellations. (Toll Brothers, for example, reported a 29.8 percent cancellation rate in its first quarter, which ended on Jan. 31, compared with 36.9 percent in the fourth quarter. At Beazer Homes, cancellations shrank to 43 percent in the first quarter from 57 percent in the fourth quarter.) He also noted that housing starts plunged 14.3 percent in January from December, which means less supply hitting the marketplace. 
 But Mr. Kim is clearly a contrarian in the crew of housing market analysts. Most remain deeply skeptical about the sector. 
 ''I don't think now is a good time to buy,'' said Paul D. Puryear, the director of real estate research at Raymond James & Associates. ''I would definitely be very careful with any position in the shares right now.'' 
 Mr. Puryear says the earnings outlook is dim for the dozen or so publicly traded builders because their inventories are elevated and because many companies are being forced to write down the value of some land acquired for future development and to forfeit options to buy land. 
 (Excluding land charge-offs, builders' profit margins are already sinking: according to Mr. Reichardt, they average 5.5 percent this year, compared with 11 percent in 2006 and 15.5 percent in 2005.)
 Ivy Zelman, a managing director at Credit Suisse, is also wary of the sector, ''given the fact that the shares have moved up already.'' She said stock prices had risen in large part because of investor optimism about a seasonal pickup. ''A lot of the good news is already priced in for a spring recovery,'' she added.
 While a strong spring could improve builders' fortunes, housing analysts aren't exactly sanguine. ''I think the spring selling season will be more bad news for the home builders,'' Mr. Puryear said. Although he believes that the overall housing market may be nearing its trough, he said, ''I disagree with what seems to be the mind-set of Wall Street that we're going to hit bottom and bound right up.'' 
 ''This is not going to be a V-shaped recovery,'' he said. ''This will be more of a U or an L.''
 Some analysts worry that a growing number of mortgage lenders -- which rolled out a raft of new products to make purchases more affordable as rates plunged and home prices skyrocketed -- are now tightening their credit standards. In the Fed's most recent Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices, released in January, about 15 percent of domestic banks said they had tightened standards on residential mortgage loans over the previous three months, the highest share since the early 1990s.
 These stricter standards, along with rising interest rates and existing-home prices that are still stubbornly high in some places, are affecting affordability, analysts say, and further hurting the new-home market. ''If you can't sell your existing home,'' Ms. Zelman said, ''you can't buy a new house.'' 
 Escalating construction costs have been another factor. ''Over the past three years,'' Mr. Puryear noted, ''we've had tremendous inflation in concrete, copper and any of the metal products that go into a home, and petroleum-based products like gypsum.'' 
 Analysts disagree about which home-building companies are best poised to recover quickly. Mr. Kim of Citigroup has a buy rating on all the home builders he tracks, but he is particularly bullish on Beazer Homes, which builds houses in different price ranges and which he says has generally underperformed the group. He and a few other analysts also like the Lennar Corporation, which has been lowering prices aggressively.
 Mr. Reichardt prefers the Ryland Group because of its geographic diversity and emphasis on entry-level homes, while Gregory E. Gieber, a vice president at A. G. Edwards, is more upbeat about D. R. Horton, the nation's largest home builder, and the Centex Corporation, for the same reasons. 
 Noting that there is often higher demand for entry-level homes, Mr. Gieber says he is more cautious about Toll Brothers. ''I think it might be the last to rebound,'' he said. 
 Toll Brothers, one of the largest builders of luxury homes, reported late last month that its first-quarter profit had declined 67 percent from the same period a year ago as a result of lower sales, write-downs and other costs. The report followed equally dismal results from other builders.
 But Kira McCarron, the chief marketing officer of Toll Brothers, said she was hopeful of a springtime sales pickup. ''We are seeing in certain regions decent foot traffic,'' she said, adding that the company was preparing promotions this month to commemorate its 40th year of business. 
 For a time last month, Beazer offered a ''Dream Home Dollar Days'' promotion, allowing certain buyers to choose from an array of incentives, including $1 down payments (with closing costs covered by the company), $1 plasma televisions or $1 granite countertops. 
 Among the myriad other builder incentives, which have included free tanks of gasoline, vacations and cars, is Lennar's ''Everything's Included'' program. All new homes, whether entry-level or more upscale, include basic luxuries like higher-end appliances and finished garage interiors. 
 ''Incentives are still king,'' said Ms. Zellman of Credit Suisse, adding that some builders are also reducing already-depressed prices by as much as $100,000. 
 These measures will probably entice more people inside the doors of model homes, but Ms. Zellman remains indifferent, calling any resulting improvement in sales ''a head fake of a recovery.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Newly constructed homes in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., left, built by Toll Brothers
in Denver, below left, by Ryland Homes
and in Sacramento, by Centex. Many home builders have been offering incentives to buyers to help pare down inventories across the country. (Photos by above, Toll Brothers
below left, Ryland Homes
 below right, Centex) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BONDS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Housing; Mortgages; Research

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Raymond James Financial Services Inc; Credit Suisse Group

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%) Vivian Marino; Stephen S Kim; Paul D Puryear; Ivy Zelman

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



59 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Good Old Days Sara Fanelli

BYLINE: By JOSEPH EPSTEIN. 
Joseph Epstein's most recent book is ''Alexis de Tocqueville: Democracy's Guide.''

 BODY:
THE ART OF AGING
 A Doctor's Prescription for Well-Being.
 By Sherwin B. Nuland.
 302 pp. Random House. $24.95.
Is there an art of aging? Or is there merely aging, a condition over which one hasn't all that much control and in which one is hostage to one's genetic inheritance and financial resources, and dependent on friends and family members to help ease the way into old age and thence as gently as possible into that blasted good night? 
 Sherwin B. Nuland, a professor of surgery at Yale, is committed to the view that there is an art to aging, that there are things most of us can do to make our later years better through maintaining good health, mental activity and important relationships. ''The Art of Aging'' is a curiously upbeat and optimistic book. I say ''curiously'' because until now Nuland has been a writer with a strong propensity for facing unpleasant facts and passing them along to his readers without trimmings. 
 His book ''How We Die'' (1994) is a physiological description of death in several of its unattractive possibilities: through heart failure, old age, Alzheimer's, cancer, AIDS, murder and more. In its pages lungs fill up with water, oxygen is cut off, arteries collapse, livers enlarge, kidneys are poisoned, tumors grow, cancers spread, intestines do things you really do not want to know about. I read 150 or so of its gruesome pages before squeamishness prevented my finishing.
 I did read all of Nuland's ''Lost in America'' (2003), a memoir of his upbringing in an immigrant Jewish family in the Bronx. ''Illness, death, financial struggle -- these had been the accompaniments of their American journey,'' Nuland writes of the father, grandmother and an aunt with whom he grew up near Jerome Avenue. The book, which begins with the author in a mental institution with depression so severe that a lobotomy has been strongly recommended, is about Nuland's life with a difficult father who never came near assimilating to America, was an endless embarrassment to his children and, unbeknownst to him and his family, suffered for decades the debilitating effects of syphilis. The family name was Nudelman, changed to Nuland by the author and his older brother when they entered early manhood. The memoir is handsomely written, heartbreakingly sad and not likely to be forgotten by anyone who has read it. 
 The unflinchingly lucid man who wrote ''Lost in America'' and ''How We Die'' puts in only a part-time appearance in Nuland's new book. ''The Art of Aging'' feels as if it has been written by two different people: one a no-nonsense medical scientist and the other a Polonius-like figure who delivers a series of sermonettes in the psychobabble of the day and whom, as I read, I preferred to think of as Nudelman. 
 The gerontologists, Nuland reports, now speak of the ''compression of morbidity,'' by which they mean holding off serious debility until as late in life as possible -- not necessarily to increase life span but to make the last years of living as enjoyable as possible. On the physical side, the best method of doing this, set out in the pages of ''The Art of Aging,'' will hardly surprise: avoid cigarettes and heavy boozing, exercise more, be circumspect in what one eats, keep mentally active. All this is reminiscent of George Santayana, in his early 80s, reporting his doctor's request that he lose 15 pounds so that he might be perfectly healthy, Santayana said, just in time for death. Yet of course, even after taking the most scrupulous possible care, one can still be stabbed by one of the many hovering cancers, struck down with terrifying diseases of the nerves (Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, Lou Gehrig's) or rendered nugatory by one or another form of dementia. All this is quite unreasonable, but then apparently whoever's in charge -- God, perhaps? -- loves a joke. 
 Owing to medical advances, public health measures, better diet and greater affluence, the average life expectancy in America has gone from 47.3 years in 1900 to 77.9 years in 2004. The number of people living to 100 or beyond rose from 37,000 to 50,000 in the brief period between 1990 and 2000. Nuland suggests it is even possible one day to imagine the age of 120 as a normal biological life span. People 65 and older, according to a report by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Commerce quoted by Nuland, are ''on the threshold of a boom'' in health.
 A chapter of ''The Art of Aging'' is given over to a Cambridge University biogerontologist named Aubrey de Grey, who believes that, through manipulations at the cellular and molecular levels, death itself can before too long be all but eliminated. In measured prose, Nuland states his own belief that eternal life is a bad idea. ''For reasons that are pragmatic, scientific, demographic, economic, political, social, emotional and secularly spiritual,'' he writes, ''I am committed to the notion that both individual fulfillment and the ecological balance of life on this planet are best served by dying when our inherent biology decrees that we do.'' Not nice, in other words, to fool with Mother Nature.
 A sensible man, Dr. Nuland, but I wish he had held his co-author, Nudelman, in firmer check. This Nudelman is a preacher, an amateur psychologist, a nudnik not above quoting Kahlil Gibran on the importance of love and work to enjoying the later years of life. This Nudelman writes gushing profiles of the actress Patricia Neal (who is thriving more than 40 years after suffering a severe stroke at 39) and the pioneering cardiac surgeon Michael DeBakey (who kept up a dizzying medical career until he himself at the age of 97 underwent surgery based on his own innovations), idealizing both doubtless interesting people beyond reality, as well as mushily sentimental portraits of more obscure older people who have managed to enjoy life despite having been smashed by serious illness. Full of advice on how to be creative and caring and sharing, on growing and nurturing and finding ''wellsprings'' and ''pathways'' on our ''journey'' through life, this Nudelman frequently lapses into unconscious self-congratulation; and he certainly doesn't mind letting one know how sensitive he is. His interest in longevity has, alas, rendered him short on levity. He can write passages so purple that one feels one hears violins in the background and awaits slides showing sunsets out of the Barbizon School. 
 Take, for example, this passage from one of his profiles in old-age courage, concerning a woman he met after she wrote him a fan letter: ''Everything about that room and the feeling it invoked in me, I soon came to realize, was the reflection of Miriam herself, and of the contentedness she has found in the everyday richness of her life.''
 I prefer to believe it's Nudelman, and not Dr. Nuland, who thinks there is nothing really all that wrong with wearing a toupee or acquiring a penile implant; Nudelman who quotes Browning (''Grow old along with me! / The best is yet to be'') and Longfellow; Nudelman who uses such words as ''toileting'' (see what happens as a result of our letting ''parenting'' get through?); Nudelman who announces that he is now going to reflect on wisdom ''accompanied by the hope that I can avoid the great temptation of waxing ponderous,'' and then becomes entirely ponderous, beginning with the word ''waxing''; Nudelman whose sugary acknowledgments might be dangerous if read by anyone with diabetes. This Nudelman must be captured and as soon as possible silenced, if not placed under house arrest in a nursing home. 
 How to account for the stern and penetrating Dr. Nuland letting loose the soppy and vaporous Nudelman, this perfect ''Oprah'' guest. (Dr. Jekyll at least struggled against the emergence of Mr. Hyde.) Could it be that he sat down to write ''The Art of Aging'' after returning each day from the gym high on endorphins? Or, what I fear may be the case, is ''The Art of Aging'' itself an example of what aging can do to make a once unsparingly unsentimental writer so intellectually squishy?

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Sara Fanelli) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); AGING (90%); CANCER (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (88%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); FAMILY (76%); LITERATURE (75%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (71%); HEART DISEASE (70%); AIDS & HIV (68%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Joseph Epstein; Sherwin B Nuland

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



60 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: March 04, 2007

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	2	STEP ON A CRACK, by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) A detective raising 10 children alone must rescue 34 high-level hostages.		 	 	 	2		1	SISTERS, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) After a family tragedy, four sisters with very different lives decide to share a Manhattan brownstone.		 	 	 	3		1	THE DOUBLE BIND, by Chris Bohjalian. (Shaye Areheart, $25.) A young woman who works at a homeless shelter struggles to understand the mysterious photographs taken by a recently deceased resident.		 	 	 	4	2	6	PLUM LOVIN', by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A mysterious man in Stephanie Plum's life helps her track down a matchmaker who skipped bail.		 	 	 	5	7	21	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	6	4	2	HIGH PROFILE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., investigates the deaths of a controversial talk-show host and a young woman.		 	 	 	7	6	3	THE ALEXANDRIA LINK, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A former Justice Department operative turned bookseller hides a link to the secrets of the vanished library of Alexandria from wealthy international thugs.		 	 	 	8*	3	2	NATURAL BORN CHARMER, by Susan Elizabeth Phillips. (Morrow, $24.95.) Opposites attract as a football player and a portrait painter embark on a road trip.		 	 	 	9	8	14	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	10		1	HEART-SHAPED BOX, by Joe Hill. (Morrow, $24.95.) An aging rock star who buys what's advertised as a ghost online to add to his collection of macabre objects is stunned when it turns out to be the real thing.		 	 	 	11*	5	11	HANNIBAL RISING, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) The childhood and adolescence of Hannibal Lecter shed light on how he became ''death's prodigy.''		 	 	 	12	9	3	HIDE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $25.) Bobby Dodge, a former sniper with the Massachusetts State Police, now a detective, unravels a mystery that begins with the discovery of six corpses beneath a state mental hospital.		 	 	 	13	10	3	DEEP STORM, by Lincoln Child. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A doctor investigates diseases at an ocean-floor research facility that may have discovered the ruins of Atlantis.		 	 	 	14		1	TEN DAYS IN THE HILLs, by Jane Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) During the first days of the Iraq war, 10 friends and family members gather at a home in the Hollywood hills to share their stories.		 	 	 	15*	12	2	FAMILY TREE, by Barbara Delinsky. (Doubleday, $25.95.) A white woman searches for the father she never knew after she unexpectedly gives birth to a black child.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	18	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2		1	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his drug-crazed killing spree and his return to humanity.		 	 	 	3	2	19	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	4	13	7	ABOUT ALICE, by Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $14.95.) The New Yorker writer's recollections of his deceased wife.		 	 	 	5	5	70	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	6	7	29	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	7*	6	2	INFIDEL, by Ayaan Hirsi Ali. (Free Press, $26.) A memoir by the Somali-born advocate for Muslim immigrant women, once a member of the Dutch Parliament, who has been threatened with death.		 	 	 	8	4	5	BORN ON A BLUE DAY, by Daniel Tammet. (Free Press, $24.) A memoir by an autistic savant who can perform extraordinary mathematical calculations.		 	 	 	9*	3	13	PALESTINE PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.		 	 	 	10	11	22	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	11	12	5	POWER, FAITH, and FANTASY, by Michael B. Oren. (Norton, $35.) A history of America's relations with the Middle East starting in 1776.		 	 	 	12	14	2	PISTOL, by Mark Kriegel. (Free Press, $27.) A biography of the legendary basketball player Pete Maravich.		 	 	 	13*	9	98	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	14	10	21	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	15	8	93	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 17, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books. REMAINDER, by Tom McCarthy. (Vintage, paper, $13.95.) In this debut novel, a Londoner emerges from a coma and seeks to reassure himself of the genuineness of his existence. CALL ME BY YOUR NAME, by Andre Aciman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Aciman's novel of love, desire, time and memory describes a passionate affair between two young men in Italy. MEASURING TIME, by Helon Habila. (Norton, paper, $13.95.) Nigerian twins follow divergent paths in this accomplished second novel. DANCING TO ''ALMENDRA,'' by Mayra Montero. Translated by Edith Grossman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A reporter on the trail of the mafia, against the backdrop of 1950s Cuba. TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE: A Biography, by Madison Smartt Bell. (Pantheon, $27.) Bell does not shy away from the contradictions in the extraordinary man who led Haiti to freedom.NIXON AND MAO: The Week That Changed the World, by Margaret MacMillan. (Random House, $27.95.) The first fully documented history of the ''opening'' between America and China.BAMBI VS. GODZILLA: On the Nature, Purpose, and Practice of the Movie Business, by David Mamet. (Pantheon, $22.) Sheer style distinguishes these tough-minded essays. THIS HUMAN SEASON, by Louise Dean. (Harcourt, $23.) The time of Northern Ireland's Troubles, recreated in a pitch-perfect novel.GEORGE GERSHWIN: His Life and Work, by Howard Pollack. (University of California, $39.95.) After a reasonably vivid portrait of the man, Pollack subjects the music to what is surely the closest reading it has ever received. THE BLOODLESS REVOLUTION: A Cultural History of Vegetarianism From 1600 to Modern Times, by Tristram Stuart. (Norton, $29.95.) Vegetarianism has long borne the mark of dissent. FLOWER CONFIDENTIAL, by Amy Stewart. (Algonquin, $23.95.) Through a gentle sort of investigative reporting, Stewart examines the $40 billion global business of floriculture. The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); MURDER (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); PAINTING (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); BOOKSTORES (58%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (55%); HOMELESSNESS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (78%); MITCH ALBOM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



61 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-04-07; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Choosing a Sect

BYLINE: By Noah Feldman. 
Noah Feldman, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
As the Sunni-Shiite conflict in Iraq polarizes Muslims across the globe, the United States finds itself in the odd position of seeming to favor a Shiite government in Iraq and Sunni leaders everywhere else. As a result, there has been a lot of loose talk in policy circles recently about how the United States should finally choose sides. After all, the rift between the two denominations is almost as old as Islam itself -- and so is unlikely to close soon. What began more than 1,300 years ago as an argument over whether the Prophet Muhammad should be succeeded by his cousin Ali or by an unrelated companion became a bloody civil war, then hardened over time into a theological split. As another civil war worsens in Iraq, the argument goes, America should pick a winner and back it to the hilt. 
But who, exactly, is our natural ally in this historic conflict? Pro-Sunni analysts, sometimes reflecting the traditional realist (and Arabist) perspective of the foreign-policy establishment, tend to see a radical Shiite Iran and its subsidiary, Lebanese Hezbollah, as the most pressing threat to America's global interests. In their view, America's traditional policy -- backing friendly Sunni powers like Saudi Arabia and Egypt -- is the best way to contain Iran. Sunnis make up as much as 90 percent of the world's 1.3 billion Muslims. Our support for the Iranian-backed Shiite parties who run the government in Iraq hasn't exactly worked out so far. If we support Iraq's Shiites even when some are engaging in retaliatory massacres of Iraqi Sunnis, we risk alienating our traditional oil-producing Sunni allies while naively spilling American blood to serve the Iranians.
 Those who support the party of Ali (as the Shiites were once known) tend to emphasize ideas and culture rather than geostrategy. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini may have led Shiism down the garden path of anti-Americanism, they allow, but at its core, Shiite thought is extremely fertile and creative, open to synthesis with the ideals of liberal democracy. The mullahs in Qom study Western philosophy from Plato to Habermas, and important reformist intellectuals within Iran have been challenging Khomeinist orthodoxy using the cosmopolitan tools of modern and postmodern thought. Contemporary Iran, the most important Shiite base today, is still shaped by an ancient Persian civilization that predates Islam. Meanwhile, Sunni Islam is in a sorry state, dominated by a purist and anti-intellectual fundamentalism that has been bankrolled by Wahhabi Saudi Arabia. Lest it be forgotten, Osama bin Laden is a Sunni who condemns Shiite and American infidels in the same breath.
 Yet both of these all-or-nothing approaches miss the reality of the Sunni-Shiite relationship -- over the centuries and today. For most of Islamic history, the denominations have lived side by side in relative peace and harmony. Whole states have moved back and forth from one column to the other. Egypt's ruling dynasty belonged to the Ismaili branch of Shiism for a couple of centuries in the Middle Ages, and modern Egyptians still celebrate Ashura and other vestigially Shiite holidays. According to scholarly consensus, the southern tribes of Iraq became Shiite only in the 19th century, the better to strengthen economic ties with the predominantly Shiite pilgrimage sites of Najaf and Karbala. Some large Iraqi tribes still include both Shiite and Sunni clans, a continuing legacy of that nonviolent shift. 
 Even Sunni and Shiite belief structures have influenced each other more than is often recognized. In the Middle Ages, the great Islamic philosophers were mostly Sunnis, and the Shiites learned from them. More recently, the aspirations of Sunni Islamists have been shaped by Khomeini's novel version of Shiite political ideology.
 This is not to say that the relationship has been trouble-free. In many Sunni-ruled states, Shiites have long been treated as an underclass. Violence has periodically flared up, as in Pakistan, where low-level sectarian attacks have been taking place for two decades. Nevertheless the last major ideological fighting between Sunnis and Shiites took place more than two centuries ago, even before the American Revolution, during the formation of the first Saudi state. Real theological disagreements mean that radicals on both sides can always find reasons to call their opponents heretics; but historically speaking, such a tactic has been rare.
 That means it is a mistake to find that we must support one side in the latest iteration of the Sunni-Shiite conflict. The tendencies that make each denomination distinct are not unequivocally good or bad for the United States. Take the outsize influence of the Shiite clerics: Ayatollah Khomeini gave the world the theory of the Supreme Leader and a distinctive Islamic anti-Americanism; but in Iraq, Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani has given us a theory of clerical restraint and a policy of building democracy. The same flexibility is characteristic of Sunni salafis, whose emphasis on the Protestant-style individual reading of the Koran may favor either democratic reform or bin Ladenism. It all depends on who is doing the interpreting. 
 For the United States to defuse anti-American Islamism, it must be willing to embrace moderates and democrats of all stripes, Sunni or Shiite. From a strategic standpoint, it would also be an error to communicate to Muslims worldwide that the United States supports either Sunnis or Shiites as such. This would undercut the core realist principle that a country's allies are those who act in its interests, not those whom it prefers on the basis of race or creed. In this sense, realism is essentially anti-discriminatory -- if not indiscriminate. 
 So choosing our friends on a case-by-case basis is both morally better and practically wiser. No matter what happens in Iraq, neither Shi'ism nor Sunnism is going to disappear. Just because some Muslims are willing to fight on the basis of who is Sunni and who Shiite doesn't mean we have to.
 Note: ''Shiites'' includes Twelver Shiites and excludes Alawis, Alevis and Zaydis, among others. (Source: ''When the Shiites Rise,'' by Vali Nasr, Foreign Affairs, July-August 2006.)(Chart by Catalogtree.) 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Ara Guler
 Magnum Photos)Chart: ''SHIITES IN THE WORLD''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); HISTORY (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); PHILOSOPHY (61%) Islam; Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Noah Feldman

GEOGRAPHIC: QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); EGYPT (79%) Middle East; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



62 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 5173 words

HEADLINE: Campus Exposure

BYLINE: By Alexandra Jacobs. 
Alexandra Jacobs is an editor at The New York Observer. This is her first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
Aaron Foster, a junior majoring in history at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, was browsing Craigslist one day in 2005 when he saw an ad for nude models. It had been posted by Boink, a glossy new sex magazine by and about college students founded by Alecia Oleyourryk, then a senior at nearby Boston University, and Christopher Anderson, a software consultant in his 30s moonlighting as a photographer. ''You're going to pay me $200, and all I have to do is pretend to be with a chick -- you're going to pay me to do that?'' was how Foster, now 24, a slim, dark-haired former marine with pierced nipples and tattoos of raking animal claws on his back, described his reaction. 
Soon he found himself standing behind closed Venetian blinds in Oleyourryk's off-campus apartment, clutching the denim-clad buttocks of a redheaded, similarly nipple-pierced young woman named Jessica as Anderson's camera clicked away. It wasn't long before the jeans came off, and the underwear. The impromptu couple then repaired to a queen-size bed, where they simulated intercourse and then lay as if in blissful postcoital repose. The session resulted in a cover shot and an eight-page layout in the third issue of Boink. ''It was fun, being nude and being photographed,'' Foster told me months afterward. ''A good experience. All my friends thought it was pretty cool. Especially if I have a party, the first thing my friends will do is bust out my porn. I think they get a kick out of it.''
 It wasn't so long ago that the male collegians of America hid their copies of Playboy deep inside their sock drawers, and the naked women tucked therein were glamorous, unknowable princesses from a media empire far, far away. These days, when anyone can run a virtual media empire out of a dorm room, student-generated sex magazines, some with the imprimatur of university financing and faculty advisers, are becoming a fact of campus life. Their subjects and contributors are the gals -- and guys -- down the hall; their target audience is male, female, straight, gay and everything in between. Not all are as overtly titillating as Boink. The grande dame of the group is Squirm, a ''magazine of smut and sensibility,'' which has been circulating since 2000 at Vassar, once the inspiration for the awkward lunges and contraceptive pessaries of Mary McCarthy's 1963 novel ''The Group.'' Topics considered within its pages have included bondage and sadomasochism, the history of the condom and the fluidity of gender. At Yale, there is the earnest, instructive SWAY, whose title is an acronym for Sex Week at Yale, a student-run symposium held biennially there since 2002, with administrative blessing and a corporate sponsor, Pure Romance, a company whose representatives sell sexual aids for women at Tupperware-like ''parties.'' The premiere edition included a slightly breathless interview with the porn star Jesse Jane along with an essay by the conservative Jennifer Roback Morse, Ph.D., a former Yale economics lecturer, which concluded: ''Marriage is for lovers. Hooking up is for losers.'' In 2004, H Bomb arrived at Harvard with slightly loftier intellectual aspirations: its founders, Katharina Cieplak-von Baldegg and Camilla Hrdy, positioned it as a ''literary arts magazine about sex and sexual issues.'' Vita Excolatur followed shortly after at the University of Chicago (its title a truncated version of the university's motto, translates roughly as ''Life Enriched''), proclaiming itself ''eager to engage all interested parties, from Republican pro-choicers to pro-Foucauldians.'' And Columbia now has, simply, Outlet, whose second issue, published online in December 2006, includes a review of eight vibrators and an article on ''vaginal personality'' -- shades of Dr. Betty Dodson, the masturbation instructress -- subtitled ''How snarky is your punani?'' 
 To middle-aged parents who still remember parietal rules, these projects might seem shocking. True, Playboy has been publishing a feature called ''Girls of the Ivy League'' since 1979. (Later came ''Girls of the Big 12'' and ''Girls of the Top 10 Party Schools.'') But it could be argued that the co-eds depicted (in a far more decorous mode than their Playmate counterparts) represented only a very small percentage of the student population. College-based sex magazines suggest that the students willing to bare it all may not be so exceptional after all. And while these publications may be less common than the sex columns -- usually written by women and often explicitly confessional -- that have popped up like little red-light disctricts within the respectable black-and-white confines of established school newspapers, they have taken hold at some of the country's most prestigious campuses. 
 In an era when the educated elite seems wholly comfortable with overt sexual imagery (Nerve.com depicts highbrow group gropes; Fleshbot.com and others archly parse the nether parts of Paris Hilton and Britney Spears), maybe it's not so strange that students are confronting their own sex lives so graphically and publicly. But there's more to the phenomenon. Considering that a smorgasbord of Internet porn is but a mouse click away for most college students, there's something valiant, even quaint, about the attempt to organize and consider sex in a printed magazine. It's as if, though curious to explore the possibly frightening boundlessness of adult eroticism, they also wish to keep it at arm's length, contained within the safety of the campus. The students involved display a host of contradictory qualities: cheekiness and earnestness, progressive politics and retro sensibilities, salacity and sensitivity. They aren't so much answering the question of what is and what isn't porn -- or what those categories might even mean today -- as artfully, disarmingly and sometimes deliberately skirting it.
 Despite the sex magazines' brash names and general air of exuberance, a scrim of protectiveness, even primness hangs over many of them -- a vestige, perhaps, of a not-so-distant past when topics like date rape, sexual harassment and AIDS were dominating the national discourse. Seminars addressing these issues are still a part of most freshman orientations, though mention of the infamous Antioch sex code of the early 1990s -- which postulated that students should secure their partner's verbal consent, button by button, before each stage of lovemaking -- tends to evoke blank stares and giggles from the undergraduates of 2007. Still, though personal online pages on Web sites like MySpace or home videos on YouTube often reveal as much as students do in these magazines, Squirm's release form specifies that the magazine is intended solely for on-campus distribution and that students retain the copyright to their contributions. ''We try to limit unwanted exposure as much as we can,'' wrote its current editor, Sarah Fraser, in an e-mail message. ''It's one thing to know you're posing nude or writing erotica for an insulated campus, and understandably quite another to know it's being disseminated widely.'' After a brief initial flurry of publicity, Kimi Traube, one of Outlet's founders, began declining interviews from noncampus press. ''We're flattered by all the attention but have decided it's best for the magazine to focus our energies on the Columbia community,'' she said, also via e-mail. The current editor of H Bomb, Ming Vandenberg, is especially concerned about the security of the magazine's content on the Web. ''I am trying to design a foolproof plan to prevent any negative externalities,'' she said, adding with a note of horror, ''There could be a photo of a clothed Harvard student that someone goes into, chops the head off and puts it on an unclothed body.'' 
 These publications vary in tone and content, but while all strive to be provocative after a fashion, they generally eschew the term ''pornographic,'' hurling it as an insult with the good-natured mutual contempt of varsity football teams. ''Outlet ... is not intended to be porn,'' sniffs a December letter from Traube to readers, saucily addressed ''Dear Hotbottoms.'' ''They do a very good job of that over at Harvard.'' On their Web site, Harvard staff members retort: ''If you aren't mature enough to tell the difference between playful nudity and pornography you probably shouldn't be reading H Bomb.'' 
 The exception is Boink, which Oleyourryk calls ''user-friendly porn'': an unblushing assortment of bared private parts, lewd prose and graphic caricatures. With its panoply of contributors -- about 50 percent of whom are enrolled at B.U., most of the rest at other colleges -- Boink is the most independent and commercially ambitious of the pack, and at first glance the least interested in critical thought. It retails for $7.95 at Newbury Comics and other stores in the Boston area, has a print run of 10,000 and, atypically for a college publication, pays its contributors. Boink has also sponsored a number of parties, some shut down by the police for under-age drinking. Recalling one of these events, Aaron Foster said enthusiastically: ''Girls walk around with their tops off. But it's just a party. My buddy was convinced there was some secret orgy room. I was like, Dude, there is no secret orgy room!''
 The absence of a secret sex dungeon was not enough to endear Boink to Boston University's administrators. Before the first issue even appeared, it was denounced by Kenneth Elmore, the dean of students. It did, however, attract the attention of Howard Stern, a B.U. alumnus, who promptly booked Oleyourryk on his radio talk show. Ben Greenberg, a young editor at Warner Books, was alerted to the broadcast by a friend. ''I was like, Wow, I can't believe someone would do that -- what would their parents think?'' he says. But the shock wore off quickly. Harvard's sex magazine might have been more obvious fodder for a book, but ''the general consensus was that the H Bomb one was kind of tame,'' Greenberg says. ''It didn't want to consider itself in any way porn. The Boink people were willing to embrace that and run with it and turn it into something sex-positive rather than something that was dirty and smut.'' Warner, which has published anthologies by Penthouse and Vice magazines, eventually offered Anderson and Oleyourryk a six-figure advance to compile ''Boink: The Book,'' a collection of erotic writings and photographs from college students around the country; it is scheduled for publication in 2008, to coincide with spring break.
 Oleyourryk, now 23, graduated in 2005 with a journalism degree and is working part time as a bartender. She herself gamely disrobed for the debut issue of Boink. ''I was very comfortable with it,'' she said on a chilly autumn afternoon at Charley's, a pub on Newbury Street. Blond and slender, with professionally arched eyebrows, she was wearing a glittery paisley shirt and big gold-medallion earrings and furiously biting her nails. Anderson sat across from her: a dark, calm, slightly portly fellow in a green fleece pullover with a faint sheen of perspiration on his upper lip.
 The two met after Oleyourryk, then in her sophomore year, paused at a water fountain during a run and looked up to see a flier Anderson had posted seeking nude models with athletic builds. He was hoping to augment his portfolio of black-and-white art photos, which he sells at www.light-sculptor.com. (Cited influences include Edward Weston and Rodin.) ''It was about, Can I do this?'' Oleyourryk said. Photographer and subject struck up a friendship, and after Anderson did some work for the first issue of H Bomb, he called to see if Oleyourryk wanted to collaborate on a magazine. ''We thought it would be fun,'' he said. 
 ''People couldn't understand that we were just doing it to do it,'' Oleyourryk said. ''So many people were looking for justifications -- like: 'Oh, there are going to be articles, right? There are going to be articles about S.T.D.'s and contraception and about this and about that?' Nobody could accept that it was for entertainment value. Why is that not O.K.? It's just so unsettling, it seems, for people, that it's just like, Oh, it's porn for porn, enjoy it, masturbate to it, whatever.''
 Oleyourryk said that for her and her peers, the question is not why pose nude, but why not? After all, they grew up watching Madonna (''All she was was naked all the time''), parsing the finer points of the Monica Lewinsky scandal and flipping through Calvin Klein ads: sexual imagery was the very wallpaper of their lives, undergirded by a new frankness about how to protect oneself from pregnancy and disease. ''Condoms. They've been rammed down our throats ... since we were old enough to start contemplating training bras,'' wrote a Boink contributor in an essay called ''Fall Fornication Must-Haves,'' which apparently included crotchless bikinis and a Swarovski-crystal-encrusted dildo called the Minx. 
 Sex is ''everywhere, and it's always been everywhere for this generation,'' Oleyourryk said. ''A body is a body is a body, and I'm proud of my body, and why not show my body? It's not going to keep me from having a job. Maybe it sticks to people, but it doesn't have that negative connotation like, I'm going to have to carry around this baggage. Maybe it's like, I'm going to carry this around and be proud of it and say: Look how I looked then! My boobs weren't on the ground. I wasn't 45 pounds overweight. How hot was I? It's not, like, 'The Scarlet Letter' anymore. It's a little badge of honor.''
 Of course, posing naked for a sex magazine is not exactly like making Phi Beta Kappa or playing the lead in the school play. For one thing, it's generally not something you write home about, though Oleyourryk insists that her parents have been supportive of her venture. (''As much as they could be,'' she said. ''I was raised very Catholic, but they live in today's world.'') For another, it's something pretty much anyone with sufficient moxie can achieve; Boink models are fit and fresh-faced but hardly all homecoming kings and queens. ''We're looking for diversity,'' Anderson said.
 Indeed, the most recent issue -- Boink's quarterly publication schedule has been suspended while its editors work on their book -- is, in a way, a triumphant marriage of the prurient and the politically correct. There is a 10-page layout devoted to the cover model, a fetching blonde named Eve; 7 more pages of Sarah, a buxom brunette, stripping for the shower; and 9 of Crystal and Lexi photographed together in a tangle of pearls and pierced body parts. But a customer buying the magazine to get glimpses of such nubile female flesh might be startled to encounter compact, mop-topped Zach (''I'm planning to get my Ph.D. in mathematics, just for fun''), followed by dark-eyed Costa (''Some of my friends call me Super Greek'') masturbating to orgasm clad in nothing but a silver cross around his neck. ''We have different sexualities represented, which commercially has been a hindrance,'' Anderson said with a shrug. The practice, however, has won Boink grudging approval in at least one unlikely quarter: the Boston University Women's Center, the college's resident feminist organization. ''What really stood out is that there were male students in it,'' Heather Foley, 21, now president of B.U.W.C., which devoted a meeting to discussing the issue, said in a phone interview. ''Because there were men in it, and gay men, under the same cover, it was sort of alternative. It kind of equalized it: gay men could look at it, women could look at it, and that was great. Women as objects, men as objects.''
 Foley, a senior majoring in political science, acknowledged that equal-opportunity objectification might represent a dubious sort of progress. ''I believe Andrea Dworkin, that porn perpetuates violence against women,'' she said. ''Most pornography is just women. Boink is different in that way, but because porn does feed into that system, I tend to be against it in general, and I don't think just because we're putting men in it that makes it O.K. But it's a step forward that men are being put in it.'' In some way her confusion seems to mirror the awkward pas de deux of college sex magazines and their audiences, a tug of war between pornographic conventions and subverting those conventions, between private and public: Look at me! Don't look at me! Protect me! Set me free!
 For all Boink's raunchiness, its founders profess a certain idealism and purity of purpose. Back at Charley's, Anderson told me that he and Oleyourryk have turned down lucrative offers to do reality-television shows and for joint deals with what they disdainfully call ''the industry,'' with all its implications of hairy middle-aged predators, silicone implants and tacky trade shows in the San Fernando Valley. Oleyourryk stressed the authenticity of Boink's subjects in a Botoxed, surgically altered world. ''We want to be proud of the fact that this is what's going on in sex and in college right now, and these are real people, and you're more relatable if you're a real person,'' she said. ''We don't put makeup on them, we don't do their hair, we don't Photoshop them. We aim for honesty and truth.''
 Over at Harvard, students are pursuing a different kind of sexual veritas. In contrast to Boink, H Bomb was approved by the university's Committee on College Life and somewhat controversially granted $2,000 in start-up costs by the Undergraduate Council. Sex magazines apparently create strange bedfellows: writing in The Crimson, Travis Kavulla, publisher of the conservative journal The Harvard Salient, suggested with unlikely indignation that this grant shortchanged the Take Back the Night rally, sponsored by the Coalition Against Sexual Violence, an event historically ridiculed by campus conservatives.
 Unlike Boink, H Bomb has a faculty adviser and adult champion: Marc Hauser, a professor of psychology and evolutionary biology, who is a friend of Sarah Hrdy, the anthropologist and mother of Camilla, one of the magazine's founders. But Hauser pronounced himself somewhat disappointed with
 H Bomb's maiden efforts. ''It hit the ground with all this big fanfare, but it didn't really do its thing,'' he said. ''Stylistically it succeeded, but everyone'' -- citizen critics gathered breathlessly during the long ramp-up to the magazine's debut -- ''felt that it didn't really succeed in terms of content, that's where it fell flat.'' He would like to see the magazine take a more belletristic bent, reviewing controversial books, perhaps -- ''You think of 'Lolita,' '' he said -- and examining what might be called sexistential questions. ''Nowadays, what constitutes porn?'' Hauser mused. ''What does a 21-year-old think porn is? I, as a parent of an 18-year-old, would like to hear that view.''
 H Bomb initially shared at least some of Boink's exhibitionism, if not quite the full-frontal erections. In the spring 2005 issue, undergraduates posed in various states of undress, using only their first names and responding to the question ''How'd you lose it?'' One young man was depicted with a bare light bulb shining on his flaccid member, his face obscured by shadow. Vandenberg, who inherited the magazine after Hrdy graduated and Katharina Cieplak-von Baldegg grew preoccupied with her thesis, plans to take things in a more modest direction (and curtail all the budding Anais Nins experimenting with free verse -- ''I hate the poems,'' she said). 
 ''Now that I'm in charge, it's not the kind of thing that you have a problem with your parents seeing,'' the new editor said over homemade oxtail soup in the capacious penthouse apartment she shares with her boyfriend in Boston. ''I would prefer if all nude photos were anonymous,'' she said. ''But people want everyone else to know. People want to stand out.''
 On a laptop computer, Vandenberg, 20, showed a few of the pictures she is planning to publish in the next edition of H Bomb, which will be online only for financial reasons. ''Quite tame,'' she said. In one, female Harvard science majors peered earnestly at test tubes, wearing lab coats opened to expose black lacy bras and panties, as in the old Maidenform advertisements. It was intended, she said, as a comment on the brouhaha that ensued after Lawrence Summers, Harvard's former president, publicly remarked that genetics might account for why women are still a minority in the sciences. ''I really don't think he said much wrong,'' said Vandenberg, who is pursuing a bachelor's degree in biological anthropology. ''I'm not a feminist. Feminism has this premise that men and women are equal, and I have a more biological view of things. I don't think men and women are equal at all. I think we're different, and what's wrong with that?''
 She spoke disparagingly of the prose submissions -- H Bomb publishes both essays and fiction -- sent in by Harvard women. ''They're sent in as fiction, but they're always barely disguised personal confessions, or not even confessions, outpourings of angst: I entered Harvard and I thought to myself, I'm going to rebel against my sheltered upbringing, I'm going to have sex with whomever I want to -- that's the opening of the piece, and then the body will be Subject A: I led him on and then I felt bad, because I really liked him. Subject B: I thought I was leading him on, but actually he dumped me first. Conclusion: I'm so frustrated, I've ruined my reputation and now no one wants to have a serious relationship with me. They realized that they're not fulfilled by casual sex, and yet they can't find someone they connect with.'' 
 More photos clicked past: a daytime re-enactment of Primal Scream, a Harvard tradition during which students streak naked across the Yard the last night before final exams begin; a montage of young vacationers frolicking in the Hawaii surf -- ''like Abercrombie & Fitch,'' Vandenberg said, referring to the clothing company's popular ad campaign; and a young man photographed in the dressing room of a sex-toy store, wearing handcuffs and a feather boa. ''This was about making bondage, which is a scary sort of thing, more palatable,'' she said.
 Sleek and attractive, with a low-key volubility, Vandenberg was a freshman when she walked into a crowded H Bomb meeting in Harvard's Loker Commons, thinking it was for the film-society magazine. She stayed because there were free T-shirts. ''They wanted me to be a model, and I was incredibly scandalized by this,'' she said. Hrdy learned that Vandenberg had done some travel photography and offered to provide her with human subjects. ''I thought, Well, this would be interesting,'' Vandenberg said. ''I've never taken nude photos before -- why not?'' Among her efforts was a series of black-and-white shots of a fellow female student sitting on a toilet with her legs crossed, naked but for a pair of pumps, her head turned to the side and mostly obscured, and another of a woman covered in red rose petals, ''American Beauty''-style. ''I thought it was great fun,'' Vandenberg said. ''It was a great, controversial thing to say, Oh, I'm a photographer for H Bomb.'' Miss Rose Petals, a sophomore named Fiona, returned the compliment, saying on the phone later that she was ''honored'' by the opportunity. ''It's sort of a document of my time at Harvard,'' she said. ''My friends were very accepting. Those who saw my pictures thought they were very beautiful.''
 You might expect that the staffs of campus sex magazines would convene in some sort of Dionysian, orgiastic formation -- multiple bare limbs splayed over a king-size bed -- but in fact the publications are just as likely to be produced in digital solitude, submissions beamed over the Internet, no one so much as touching hands. ''Right now it's a dictatorship,'' Vandenberg said. ''I'm the meeting. I really hate meetings, actually. I really just like to communicate online. It's very inconvenient to meet physically.''
 The exploration of sexuality on college campuses has often had a political, communitarian component. Forty years ago, love-ins and slogans like ''Make Love Not War'' linked anti-war sentiment with feminist rejections of traditional roles. In 1990, students at Radcliffe -- then still a separate institution from Harvard -- began publishing a magazine called Lighthouse, after the Virginia Woolf novel ''To the Lighthouse.'' Considered a ''safe space'' for women to express themselves, it also contained intensely personal anonymous female sexual confessionals, dropped furtively into a cardboard box in Lamont Library. It died a quiet death in the late 90s, around the time that Radcliffe definitively merged with Harvard. In H Bomb and many of the other new breed of publications, any tolerance for emotional vulnerability appears to have evaporated, replaced by an uneasy, fleshy bombast. 
 Vandenberg described a social landscape changed irrevocably by the rise of networking Web sites. After meeting someone, it's now de rigueur to check out his or her profile -- a collage of pictures (often risque) and preferences -- on MySpace or Facebook.com. ''I have a BlackBerry -- so immediately,'' Vandenberg said. ''You might run into someone at a party, and then you Facebook them: what are their interests? Are they crazy-religious, is their favorite quote from the Bible? Everyone takes great pains over presenting themselves. It's like an embodiment of your personality.'' Except for the die-hard holdouts who refuse to participate in these networks -- ''They're treated like pariahs, people will just harass them until they join,'' Vandenberg said -- to attend college now means to participate in a culture of constant two-dimensional preening, for males and females alike. In this context, posing for a sex magazine can seem like just another, more formalized level of display. 
 At one of Boink's parties, Aaron Foster, the cover model from the third issue, met a female model, Anna Lee, signing copies of the second issue of the magazine, in which she appeared wearing only body paint. They connected again on MySpace and had what he described as ''a whirlwind thing,'' but then he stopped calling her. ''It was a weird situation,'' he said. ''She's a porn girl, so ... I dunno. I assumed she wasn't really looking for much from me. I'm a guy. There's a lot less stigma attached to it. A chick, people think 'slutty,' whereas a dude gets associated with male bravado.''
 Now a junior, Lee became audibly distressed when asked about her relationship with Foster. ''That's not why he told me he broke up with me,'' she said. ''The reason we split up is because Aaron was in a time in his life when he didn't want to have a relationship.'' As for her being a ''porn girl,'' Lee said: ''It was a mutual thing. I didn't know what to think of him either.'' About her dealings with Boink, she expressed equally mixed feelings. ''It really just started out as a joke. I think it's good to be proud of your body, especially when you're younger and stuff, as long as it's tasteful. Just something to add to the resume. I thought the body-painting spread was really creative. I wanted people to say, 'That's really cool and artistic and different.' '' But she wasn't pleased that her image was associated with some other, more explicit shots. ''In my issue there's this guy who posed, and he's masturbating in the picture. It's really awkward. I'm like: Wow. That was pretty disgusting.'' 
 Lee, who is 20, was also upset because, she said, Boink had marketed a poster featuring a picture from her shoot -- one without body paint -- without her consent. 
 Anderson later told me that he had contemplated making posters of Lee and another model (the release form Boink models sign gives the magazine complete sovereignty over their images, he said), but there was no consumer interest and they were never printed. 
 ''I think this was a case of being in the spotlight and then out of the spotlight,'' he said of her complaints. ''An attention-getting thing.'' 
 It was a windy Sunday, a model search for the Boink book at a local nightclub had been canceled after the club's manager was fired and Anderson and Oleyourryk were having a subdued meeting in the living room of the latter's apartment in South Boston. They were discussing a Web site she had discovered that featured faces -- only faces -- of people experiencing orgasm, one that a writer for Outlet would also later cover. A cat paced back and forth on a white shag rug, eyeing the birds on the swaying boughs outside. In one corner of the room was Oleyourryk's discarded Halloween costume, a low-cut green garment with glittery scales. ''I was a dragon,'' she said. ''Girls totally find Halloween a chance to be slutty. Not slutty in a negative way, but -- sexy.''
 ''We've had a surprising number of people, writers who have told us they're virgins, which just seems unusual to me,'' Anderson said.
 ''Why are there so many virgins?'' Oleyourryk wondered. 
 ''Might be a lack of opportunity,'' Anderson said. ''College is supposed to be a time of experimentation, but a lot of people get freaked out by it too. They have all this opportunity, and they don't really know what to do. Too much choice.''
 The duo were sitting on a couch, a bottle of Diet Coke at Oleyourryk's side, sifting through printouts of essay submissions. ''I would guess that if you were watching J. K. Rowling write a book, it would be a bit more stimulating,'' Anderson said, passing over a sheaf of papers. Our sex is the Mass, read a piece by a Dartmouth student. You kneel down in the doorway of my chapel. ...
 ''We get so many female submissions,'' he said. ''Everyone wants to be Carrie Bradshaw.''
 ''All girls want to be sexy and have a lot of sex, but they want to do it in an environment that's safe for them,'' Oleyourryk said. ''So they're doing the Carrie Bradshaw thing or dressing up for Halloween.'' 
 Anderson tilted his laptop to show a picture of a blond woman standing in a black bikini in a road, then clicked over to a head shot of a light-skinned African-American woman. ''I like her lips,'' Oleyourryk said, stretching and getting up. Her cellphone bleated urgently. ''Oh, Christ, I will call you back in a minute,'' she said, batting crossly at it. 
 They seemed a bit overwhelmed, to lack zest for the task at hand. Where were the eager freshmen to help? ''Who in college doesn't want to get involved in a magazine like this?'' Anderson said. ''And then their interest lasts about five minutes once they find out that they're not going to be surrounded by naked girls. People have a very skewed view of what it's all about. They think it's going to be the Playboy mansion 24-7.''
 ''Wait, wait,'' Oleyourryk said in sarcastic imitation. ''We're not going to have an orgy?'' Rising from the couch, gettingready to leave for her evening bartending shift, she sounded like any other recent college graduate facing the world. ''Oh, lordy, lordy,'' she said. ''I do not want to go to work.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Parent-Friendly? Ming Vandenberg, editor of H Bomb, Harvard's high-minded sex magazine.
 User-Friendly? Alecia Oleyourryk, a founder of the unblushingly lewd and ''sex positive'' Boink. (Photographs by Jennifer Karady for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); WOMEN (77%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (62%) Pornography; Magazines; Colleges and Universities; Pornography

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%) Boink (Magazine); Boston University

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Christopher (Boston University) Anderson; Alecia Oleyourryk; Alexandra Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



63 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 8159 words

HEADLINE: Darwin's God

BYLINE: By Robin Marantz Henig. 
Robin Marantz Henig, a contributing writer, has written recently for the magazine about the neurobiology of lying and about obesity.

 BODY:
God has always been a puzzle for Scott Atran. When he was 10 years old, he scrawled a plaintive message on the wall of his bedroom in Baltimore. ''God exists,'' he wrote in black and orange paint, ''or if he doesn't, we're in trouble.'' Atran has been struggling with questions about religion ever since -- why he himself no longer believes in God and why so many other people, everywhere in the world, apparently do. 
Call it God; call it superstition; call it, as Atran does, ''belief in hope beyond reason'' -- whatever you call it, there seems an inherent human drive to believe in something transcendent, unfathomable and otherworldly, something beyond the reach or understanding of science. ''Why do we cross our fingers during turbulence, even the most atheistic among us?'' asked Atran when we spoke at his Upper West Side pied-a-terre in January. Atran, who is 55, is an anthropologist at the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris, with joint appointments at the University of Michigan and the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. His research interests include cognitive science and evolutionary biology, and sometimes he presents students with a wooden box that he pretends is an African relic. ''If you have negative sentiments toward religion,'' he tells them, ''the box will destroy whatever you put inside it.'' Many of his students say they doubt the existence of God, but in this demonstration they act as if they believe in something. Put your pencil into the magic box, he tells them, and the nonbelievers do so blithely. Put in your driver's license, he says, and most do, but only after significant hesitation. And when he tells them to put in their hands, few will.
 If they don't believe in God, what exactly are they afraid of?
 Atran first conducted the magic-box demonstration in the 1980s, when he was at Cambridge University studying the nature of religious belief. He had received a doctorate in anthropology from Columbia University and, in the course of his fieldwork, saw evidence of religion everywhere he looked -- at archaeological digs in Israel, among the Mayans in Guatemala, in artifact drawers at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Atran is Darwinian in his approach, which means he tries to explain behavior by how it might once have solved problems of survival and reproduction for our early ancestors. But it was not clear to him what evolutionary problems might have been solved by religious belief. Religion seemed to use up physical and mental resources without an obvious benefit for survival. Why, he wondered, was religion so pervasive, when it was something that seemed so costly from an evolutionary point of view? 
 The magic-box demonstration helped set Atran on a career studying why humans might have evolved to be religious, something few people were doing back in the '80s. Today, the effort has gained momentum, as scientists search for an evolutionary explanation for why belief in God exists -- not whether God exists, which is a matter for philosophers and theologians, but why the belief does. 
 This is different from the scientific assault on religion that has been garnering attention recently, in the form of best-selling books from scientific atheists who see religion as a scourge. In ''The God Delusion,'' published last year and still on best-seller lists, the Oxford evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins concludes that religion is nothing more than a useless, and sometimes dangerous, evolutionary accident. ''Religious behavior may be a misfiring, an unfortunate byproduct of an underlying psychological propensity which in other circumstances is, or once was, useful,'' Dawkins wrote. He is joined by two other best-selling authors -- Sam Harris, who wrote ''The End of Faith,'' and Daniel Dennett, a philosopher at Tufts University who wrote ''Breaking the Spell.'' The three men differ in their personal styles and whether they are engaged in a battle against religiosity, but their names are often mentioned together. They have been portrayed as an unholy trinity of neo-atheists, promoting their secular world view with a fervor that seems almost evangelical.
 Lost in the hullabaloo over the neo-atheists is a quieter and potentially more illuminating debate. It is taking place not between science and religion but within science itself, specifically among the scientists studying the evolution of religion. These scholars tend to agree on one point: that religious belief is an outgrowth of brain architecture that evolved during early human history. What they disagree about is why a tendency to believe evolved, whether it was because belief itself was adaptive or because it was just an evolutionary byproduct, a mere consequence of some other adaptation in the evolution of the human brain.
 Which is the better biological explanation for a belief in God -- evolutionary adaptation or neurological accident? Is there something about the cognitive functioning of humans that makes us receptive to belief in a supernatural deity? And if scientists are able to explain God, what then? Is explaining religion the same thing as explaining it away? Are the nonbelievers right, and is religion at its core an empty undertaking, a misdirection, a vestigial artifact of a primitive mind? Or are the believers right, and does the fact that we have the mental capacities for discerning God suggest that it was God who put them there?
 In short, are we hard-wired to believe in God? And if we are, how and why did that happen?
 ''All of our raptures and our drynesses, our longings and pantings, our questions and beliefs . . . are equally organically founded,'' William James wrote in ''The Varieties of Religious Experience.'' James, who taught philosophy and experimental psychology at Harvard for more than 30 years, based his book on a 1901 lecture series in which he took some early tentative steps at breaching the science-religion divide. 
 In the century that followed, a polite convention generally separated science and religion, at least in much of the Western world. Science, as the old trope had it, was assigned the territory that describes how the heavens go; religion, how to go to heaven. 
 Anthropologists like Atran and psychologists as far back as James had been looking at the roots of religion, but the mutual hands-off policy really began to shift in the 1990s. Religion made incursions into the traditional domain of science with attempts to bring intelligent design into the biology classroom and to choke off human embryonic stem-cell research on religious grounds. Scientists responded with counterincursions. Experts from the hard sciences, like evolutionary biology and cognitive neuroscience, joined anthropologists and psychologists in the study of religion, making God an object of scientific inquiry.
 The debate over why belief evolved is between byproduct theorists and adaptationists. You might think that the byproduct theorists would tend to be nonbelievers, looking for a way to explain religion as a fluke, while the adaptationists would be more likely to be believers who can intuit the emotional, spiritual and community advantages that accompany faith. Or you might think they would all be atheists, because what believer would want to subject his own devotion to rationalism's cold, hard scrutiny? But a scientist's personal religious view does not always predict which side he will take. And this is just one sign of how complex and surprising this debate has become.
 Angels, demons, spirits, wizards, gods and witches have peppered folk religions since mankind first started telling stories. Charles Darwin noted this in ''The Descent of Man.'' ''A belief in all-pervading spiritual agencies,'' he wrote, ''seems to be universal.'' According to anthropologists, religions that share certain supernatural features -- belief in a noncorporeal God or gods, belief in the afterlife, belief in the ability of prayer or ritual to change the course of human events -- are found in virtually every culture on earth.
 This is certainly true in the United States. About 6 in 10 Americans, according to a 2005 Harris Poll, believe in the devil and hell, and about 7 in 10 believe in angels, heaven and the existence of miracles and of life after death. A 2006 survey at Baylor University found that 92 percent of respondents believe in a personal God -- that is, a God with a distinct set of character traits ranging from ''distant'' to ''benevolent.''
 When a trait is universal, evolutionary biologists look for a genetic explanation and wonder how that gene or genes might enhance survival or reproductive success. In many ways, it's an exercise in post-hoc hypothesizing: what would have been the advantage, when the human species first evolved, for an individual who happened to have a mutation that led to, say, a smaller jaw, a bigger forehead, a better thumb? How about certain behavioral traits, like a tendency for risk-taking or for kindness? 
 Atran saw such questions as a puzzle when applied to religion. So many aspects of religious belief involve misattribution and misunderstanding of the real world. Wouldn't this be a liability in the survival-of-the-fittest competition? To Atran, religious belief requires taking ''what is materially false to be true'' and ''what is materially true to be false.'' One example of this is the belief that even after someone dies and the body demonstrably disintegrates, that person will still exist, will still be able to laugh and cry, to feel pain and joy. This confusion ''does not appear to be a reasonable evolutionary strategy,'' Atran wrote in ''In Gods We Trust: The Evolutionary Landscape of Religion'' in 2002. ''Imagine another animal that took injury for health or big for small or fast for slow or dead for alive. It's unlikely that such a species could survive.'' He began to look for a sideways explanation: if religious belief was not adaptive, perhaps it was associated with something else that was.
 Atran intended to study mathematics when he entered Columbia as a precocious 17-year-old. But he was distracted by the radical politics of the late '60s. One day in his freshman year, he found himself at an antiwar rally listening to Margaret Mead, then perhaps the most famous anthropologist in America. Atran, dressed in a flamboyant Uncle Sam suit, stood up and called her a sellout for saying the protesters should be writing to their congressmen instead of staging demonstrations. ''Young man,'' the unflappable Mead said, ''why don't you come see me in my office?''
 Atran, equally unflappable, did go to see her -- and ended up working for Mead, spending much of his time exploring the cabinets of curiosities in her tower office at the American Museum of Natural History. Soon he switched his major to anthropology.
 Many of the museum specimens were religious, Atran says. So were the artifacts he dug up on archaeological excursions in Israel in the early '70s. Wherever he turned, he encountered the passion of religious belief. Why, he wondered, did people work so hard against their preference for logical explanations to maintain two views of the world, the real and the unreal, the intuitive and the counterintuitive? 
 Maybe cognitive effort was precisely the point. Maybe it took less mental work than Atran realized to hold belief in God in one's mind. Maybe, in fact, belief was the default position for the human mind, something that took no cognitive effort at all.
 While still an undergraduate, Atran decided to explore these questions by organizing a conference on universal aspects of culture and inviting all his intellectual heroes: the linguist Noam Chomsky, the psychologist Jean Piaget, the anthropologists Claude Levi-Strauss and Gregory Bateson (who was also Margaret Mead's ex-husband), the Nobel Prize-winning biologists Jacques Monod and Francois Jacob. It was 1974, and the only site he could find for the conference was at a location just outside Paris. Atran was a scraggly 22-year-old with a guitar who had learned his French from comic books. To his astonishment, everyone he invited agreed to come.
 Atran is a sociable man with sharp hazel eyes, who sparks provocative conversations the way other men pick bar fights. As he traveled in the '70s and '80s, he accumulated friends who were thinking about the issues he was: how culture is transmitted among human groups and what evolutionary function it might serve. ''I started looking at history, and I wondered why no society ever survived more than three generations without a religious foundation as its raison d'etre,'' he says. Soon he turned to an emerging subset of evolutionary theory -- the evolution of human cognition.
 Some cognitive scientists think of brain functioning in terms of modules, a series of interconnected machines, each one responsible for a particular mental trick. They do not tend to talk about a God module per se; they usually consider belief in God a consequence of other mental modules.
 Religion, in this view, is ''a family of cognitive phenomena that involves the extraordinary use of everyday cognitive processes,'' Atran wrote in ''In Gods We Trust.'' ''Religions do not exist apart from the individual minds that constitute them and the environments that constrain them, any more than biological species and varieties exist independently of the individual organisms that compose them and the environments that conform them.'' 
 At around the time ''In Gods We Trust'' appeared five years ago, a handful of other scientists -- Pascal Boyer, now at Washington University; Justin Barrett, now at Oxford; Paul Bloom at Yale -- were addressing these same questions. In synchrony they were moving toward the byproduct theory.
 Darwinians who study physical evolution distinguish between traits that are themselves adaptive, like having blood cells that can transport oxygen, and traits that are byproducts of adaptations, like the redness of blood. There is no survival advantage to blood's being red instead of turquoise; it is just a byproduct of the trait that is adaptive, having blood that contains hemoglobin.
 Something similar explains aspects of brain evolution, too, say the byproduct theorists. Which brings us to the idea of the spandrel.
 Stephen Jay Gould, the famed evolutionary biologist at Harvard who died in 2002, and his colleague Richard Lewontin proposed ''spandrel'' to describe a trait that has no adaptive value of its own. They borrowed the term from architecture, where it originally referred to the V-shaped structure formed between two rounded arches. The structure is not there for any purpose; it is there because that is what happens when arches align.
 In architecture, a spandrel can be neutral or it can be made functional. Building a staircase, for instance, creates a space underneath that is innocuous, just a blank sort of triangle. But if you put a closet there, the under-stairs space takes on a function, unrelated to the staircase's but useful nonetheless. Either way, functional or nonfunctional, the space under the stairs is a spandrel, an unintended byproduct.
 ''Natural selection made the human brain big,'' Gould wrote, ''but most of our mental properties and potentials may be spandrels -- that is, nonadaptive side consequences of building a device with such structural complexity.''
 The possibility that God could be a spandrel offered Atran a new way of understanding the evolution of religion. But a spandrel of what, exactly?
 Hardships of early human life favored the evolution of certain cognitive tools, among them the ability to infer the presence of organisms that might do harm, to come up with causal narratives for natural events and to recognize that other people have minds of their own with their own beliefs, desires and intentions. Psychologists call these tools, respectively, agent detection, causal reasoning and theory of mind.
 Agent detection evolved because assuming the presence of an agent -- which is jargon for any creature with volitional, independent behavior -- is more adaptive than assuming its absence. If you are a caveman on the savannah, you are better off presuming that the motion you detect out of the corner of your eye is an agent and something to run from, even if you are wrong. If it turns out to have been just the rustling of leaves, you are still alive; if what you took to be leaves rustling was really a hyena about to pounce, you are dead. 
 A classic experiment from the 1940s by the psychologists Fritz Heider and Marianne Simmel suggested that imputing agency is so automatic that people may do it even for geometric shapes. For the experiment, subjects watched a film of triangles and circles moving around. When asked what they had been watching, the subjects used words like ''chase'' and ''capture.'' They did not just see the random movement of shapes on a screen; they saw pursuit, planning, escape.
 So if there is motion just out of our line of sight, we presume it is caused by an agent, an animal or person with the ability to move independently. This usually operates in one direction only; lots of people mistake a rock for a bear, but almost no one mistakes a bear for a rock.
 What does this mean for belief in the supernatural? It means our brains are primed for it, ready to presume the presence of agents even when such presence confounds logic. ''The most central concepts in religions are related to agents,'' Justin Barrett, a psychologist, wrote in his 2004 summary of the byproduct theory, ''Why Would Anyone Believe in God?'' Religious agents are often supernatural, he wrote, ''people with superpowers, statues that can answer requests or disembodied minds that can act on us and the world.''
 A second mental module that primes us for religion is causal reasoning. The human brain has evolved the capacity to impose a narrative, complete with chronology and cause-and-effect logic, on whatever it encounters, no matter how apparently random. ''We automatically, and often unconsciously, look for an explanation of why things happen to us,'' Barrett wrote, ''and 'stuff just happens' is no explanation. Gods, by virtue of their strange physical properties and their mysterious superpowers, make fine candidates for causes of many of these unusual events.'' The ancient Greeks believed thunder was the sound of Zeus's thunderbolt. Similarly, a contemporary woman whose cancer treatment works despite 10-to-1 odds might look for a story to explain her survival. It fits better with her causal-reasoning tool for her recovery to be a miracle, or a reward for prayer, than for it to be just a lucky roll of the dice.
 A third cognitive trick is a kind of social intuition known as theory of mind. It's an odd phrase for something so automatic, since the word ''theory'' suggests formality and self-consciousness. Other terms have been used for the same concept, like intentional stance and social cognition. One good alternative is the term Atran uses: folkpsychology.
 Folkpsychology, as Atran and his colleagues see it, is essential to getting along in the contemporary world, just as it has been since prehistoric times. It allows us to anticipate the actions of others and to lead others to believe what we want them to believe; it is at the heart of everything from marriage to office politics to poker. People without this trait, like those with severe autism, are impaired, unable to imagine themselves in other people's heads.
 The process begins with positing the existence of minds, our own and others', that we cannot see or feel. This leaves us open, almost instinctively, to belief in the separation of the body (the visible) and the mind (the invisible). If you can posit minds in other people that you cannot verify empirically, suggests Paul Bloom, a psychologist and the author of ''Descartes' Baby,'' published in 2004, it is a short step to positing minds that do not have to be anchored to a body. And from there, he said, it is another short step to positing an immaterial soul and a transcendent God.
 The traditional psychological view has been that until about age 4, children think that minds are permeable and that everyone knows whatever the child himself knows. To a young child, everyone is infallible. All other people, especially Mother and Father, are thought to have the same sort of insight as an all-knowing God.
 But at a certain point in development, this changes. (Some new research suggests this might occur as early as 15 months.) The ''false-belief test'' is a classic experiment that highlights the boundary. Children watch a puppet show with a simple plot: John comes onstage holding a marble, puts it in Box A and walks off. Mary comes onstage, opens Box A, takes out the marble, puts it in Box B and walks off. John comes back onstage. The children are asked, Where will John look for the marble?
 Very young children, or autistic children of any age, say John will look in Box B, since they know that's where the marble is. But older children give a more sophisticated answer. They know that John never saw Mary move the marble and that as far as he is concerned it is still where he put it, in Box A. Older children have developed a theory of mind; they understand that other people sometimes have false beliefs. Even though they know that the marble is in Box B, they respond that John will look for it in Box A. 
 The adaptive advantage of folkpsychology is obvious. According to Atran, our ancestors needed it to survive their harsh environment, since folkpsychology allowed them to ''rapidly and economically'' distinguish good guys from bad guys. But how did folkpsychology -- an understanding of ordinary people's ordinary minds -- allow for a belief in supernatural, omniscient minds? And if the byproduct theorists are right and these beliefs were of little use in finding food or leaving more offspring, why did they persist?
 Atran ascribes the persistence to evolutionary misdirection, which, he says, happens all the time: ''Evolution always produces something that works for what it works for, and then there's no control for however else it's used.'' On a sunny weekday morning, over breakfast at a French cafe on upper Broadway, he tried to think of an analogy and grinned when he came up with an old standby: women's breasts. Because they are associated with female hormones, he explained, full breasts indicate a woman is fertile, and the evolution of the male brain's preference for them was a clever mating strategy. But breasts are now used for purposes unrelated to reproduction, to sell anything from deodorant to beer. ''A Martian anthropologist might look at this and say, 'Oh, yes, so these breasts must have somehow evolved to sell hygienic stuff or food to human beings,' '' Atran said. But the Martian would, of course, be wrong. Equally wrong would be to make the same mistake about religion, thinking it must have evolved to make people behave a certain way or feel a certain allegiance. 
 That is what most fascinated Atran. ''Why is God in there?'' he wondered. 
 The idea of an infallible God is comfortable and familiar, something children readily accept. You can see this in the experiment Justin Barrett conducted recently -- a version of the traditional false-belief test but with a religious twist. Barrett showed young children a box with a picture of crackers on the outside. What do you think is inside this box? he asked, and the children said, ''Crackers.'' Next he opened it and showed them that the box was filled with rocks. Then he asked two follow-up questions: What would your mother say is inside this box? And what would God say?
 As earlier theory-of-mind experiments already showed, 3- and 4-year-olds tended to think Mother was infallible, and since the children knew the right answer, they assumed she would know it, too. They usually responded that Mother would say the box contained rocks. But 5- and 6-year-olds had learned that Mother, like any other person, could hold a false belief in her mind, and they tended to respond that she would be fooled by the packaging and would say, ''Crackers.'' 
 And what would God say? No matter what their age, the children, who were all Protestants, told Barrett that God would answer, ''Rocks.'' This was true even for the older children, who, as Barrett understood it, had developed folkpsychology and had used it when predicting a wrong response for Mother. They had learned that, in certain situations, people could be fooled -- but they had also learned that there is no fooling God.
 The bottom line, according to byproduct theorists, is that children are born with a tendency to believe in omniscience, invisible minds, immaterial souls -- and then they grow up in cultures that fill their minds, hard-wired for belief, with specifics. It is a little like language acquisition, Paul Bloom says, with the essential difference that language is a biological adaptation and religion, in his view, is not. We are born with an innate facility for language but the specific language we learn depends on the environment in which we are raised. In much the same way, he says, we are born with an innate tendency for belief, but the specifics of what we grow up believing -- whether there is one God or many, whether the soul goes to heaven or occupies another animal after death -- are culturally shaped. 
 Whatever the specifics, certain beliefs can be found in all religions. Those that prevail, according to the byproduct theorists, are those that fit most comfortably with our mental architecture. Psychologists have shown, for instance, that people attend to, and remember, things that are unfamiliar and strange, but not so strange as to be impossible to assimilate. Ideas about God or other supernatural agents tend to fit these criteria. They are what Pascal Boyer, an anthropologist and psychologist, called ''minimally counterintuitive'': weird enough to get your attention and lodge in your memory but not so weird that you reject them altogether. A tree that talks is minimally counterintuitive, and you might believe it as a supernatural agent. A tree that talks and flies and time-travels is maximally counterintuitive, and you are more likely to reject it.
 Atran, along with Ara Norenzayan of the University of British Columbia, studied the idea of minimally counterintuitive agents earlier this decade. They presented college students with lists of fantastical creatures and asked them to choose the ones that seemed most ''religious.'' The convincingly religious agents, the students said, were not the most outlandish -- not the turtle that chatters and climbs or the squealing, flowering marble -- but those that were just outlandish enough: giggling seaweed, a sobbing oak, a talking horse. Giggling seaweed meets the requirement of being minimally counterintuitive, Atran wrote. So does a God who has a human personality except that he knows everything or a God who has a mind but has no body.
 It is not enough for an agent to be minimally counterintuitive for it to earn a spot in people's belief systems. An emotional component is often needed, too, if belief is to take hold. ''If your emotions are involved, then that's the time when you're most likely to believe whatever the religion tells you to believe,'' Atran says. Religions stir up emotions through their rituals -- swaying, singing, bowing in unison during group prayer, sometimes working people up to a state of physical arousal that can border on frenzy. And religions gain strength during the natural heightening of emotions that occurs in times of personal crisis, when the faithful often turn to shamans or priests. The most intense personal crisis, for which religion can offer powerfully comforting answers, is when someone comes face to face with mortality. 
 In John Updike's celebrated early short story ''Pigeon Feathers,'' 14-year-old David spends a lot of time thinking about death. He suspects that adults are lying when they say his spirit will live on after he dies. He keeps catching them in inconsistencies when he asks where exactly his soul will spend eternity. ''Don't you see,'' he cries to his mother, ''if when we die there's nothing, all your sun and fields and what not are all, ah, horror? It's just an ocean of horror.'' 
 The story ends with David's tiny revelation and his boundless relief. The boy gets a gun for his 15th birthday, which he uses to shoot down some pigeons that have been nesting in his grandmother's barn. Before he buries them, he studies the dead birds' feathers. He is amazed by their swirls of color, ''designs executed, it seemed, in a controlled rapture.'' And suddenly the fears that have plagued him are lifted, and with a ''slipping sensation along his nerves that seemed to give the air hands, he was robed in this certainty: that the God who had lavished such craft upon these worthless birds would not destroy His whole Creation by refusing to let David live forever.''
 Fear of death is an undercurrent of belief. The spirits of dead ancestors, ghosts, immortal deities, heaven and hell, the everlasting soul: the notion of spiritual existence after death is at the heart of almost every religion. According to some adaptationists, this is part of religion's role, to help humans deal with the grim certainty of death. Believing in God and the afterlife, they say, is how we make sense of the brevity of our time on earth, how we give meaning to this brutish and short existence. Religion can offer solace to the bereaved and comfort to the frightened.
 But the spandrelists counter that saying these beliefs are consolation does not mean they offered an adaptive advantage to our ancestors. ''The human mind does not produce adequate comforting delusions against all situations of stress or fear,'' wrote Pascal Boyer, a leading byproduct theorist, in ''Religion Explained,'' which came out a year before Atran's book. ''Indeed, any organism that was prone to such delusions would not survive long.'' 
 Whether or not it is adaptive, belief in the afterlife gains power in two ways: from the intensity with which people wish it to be true and from the confirmation it seems to get from the real world. This brings us back to folkpsychology. We try to make sense of other people partly by imagining what it is like to be them, an adaptive trait that allowed our ancestors to outwit potential enemies. But when we think about being dead, we run into a cognitive wall. How can we possibly think about not thinking? ''Try to fill your consciousness with the representation of no-consciousness, and you will see the impossibility of it,'' the Spanish philosopher Miguel de Unamuno wrote in ''Tragic Sense of Life.'' ''The effort to comprehend it causes the most tormenting dizziness. We cannot conceive of ourselves as not existing.''
 Much easier, then, to imagine that the thinking somehow continues. This is what young children seem to do, as a study at the Florida Atlantic University demonstrated a few years ago. Jesse Bering and David Bjorklund, the psychologists who conducted the study, used finger puppets to act out the story of a mouse, hungry and lost, who is spotted by an alligator. ''Well, it looks like Brown Mouse got eaten by Mr. Alligator,'' the narrator says at the end. ''Brown Mouse is not alive anymore.''
 Afterward, Bering and Bjorklund asked their subjects, ages 4 to 12, what it meant for Brown Mouse to be ''not alive anymore.'' Is he still hungry? Is he still sleepy? Does he still want to go home? Most said the mouse no longer needed to eat or drink. But a large proportion, especially the younger ones, said that he still had thoughts, still loved his mother and still liked cheese. The children understood what it meant for the mouse's body to cease to function, but many believed that something about the mouse was still alive.
 ''Our psychological architecture makes us think in particular ways,'' says Bering, now at Queens University in Belfast, Northern Ireland. ''In this study, it seems, the reason afterlife beliefs are so prevalent is that underlying them is our inability to simulate our nonexistence.''
 It might be just as impossible to simulate the nonexistence of loved ones. A large part of any relationship takes place in our minds, Bering said, so it's natural for it to continue much as before after the other person's death. It is easy to forget that your sister is dead when you reach for the phone to call her, since your relationship was based so much on memory and imagined conversations even when she was alive. In addition, our agent-detection device sometimes confirms the sensation that the dead are still with us. The wind brushes our cheek, a spectral shape somehow looks familiar and our agent detection goes into overdrive. Dreams, too, have a way of confirming belief in the afterlife, with dead relatives appearing in dreams as if from beyond the grave, seeming very much alive.
 Belief is our fallback position, according to Bering; it is our reflexive style of thought. ''We have a basic psychological capacity that allows anyone to reason about unexpected natural events, to see deeper meaning where there is none,'' he says. ''It's natural; it's how our minds work.'' 
 Intriguing as the spandrel logic might be, there is another way to think about the evolution of religion: that religion evolved because it offered survival advantages to our distant ancestors. This is where the action is in the science of God debate, with a coterie of adaptationists arguing on behalf of the primary benefits, in terms of survival advantages, of religious belief.
 The trick in thinking about adaptation is that even if a trait offers no survival advantage today, it might have had one long ago. This is how Darwinians explain how certain physical characteristics persist even if they do not currently seem adaptive -- by asking whether they might have helped our distant ancestors form social groups, feed themselves, find suitable mates or keep from getting killed. A facility for storing calories as fat, for instance, which is a detriment in today's food-rich society, probably helped our ancestors survive cyclical famines.
 So trying to explain the adaptiveness of religion means looking for how it might have helped early humans survive and reproduce. As some adaptationists see it, this could have worked on two levels, individual and group. Religion made people feel better, less tormented by thoughts about death, more focused on the future, more willing to take care of themselves. As William James put it, religion filled people with ''a new zest which adds itself like a gift to life . . . an assurance of safety and a temper of peace and, in relation to others, a preponderance of loving affections.''
 Such sentiments, some adaptationists say, made the faithful better at finding and storing food, for instance, and helped them attract better mates because of their reputations for morality, obedience and sober living. The advantage might have worked at the group level too, with religious groups outlasting others because they were more cohesive, more likely to contain individuals willing to make sacrifices for the group and more adept at sharing resources and preparing for warfare.
 One of the most vocal adaptationists is David Sloan Wilson, an occasional thorn in the side of both Scott Atran and Richard Dawkins. Wilson, an evolutionary biologist at the State University of New York at Binghamton, focuses much of his argument at the group level. ''Organisms are a product of natural selection,'' he wrote in ''Darwin's Cathedral: Evolution, Religion, and the Nature of Society,'' which came out in 2002, the same year as Atran's book, and staked out the adaptationist view. ''Through countless generations of variation and selection, [organisms] acquire properties that enable them to survive and reproduce in their environments. My purpose is to see if human groups in general, and religious groups in particular, qualify as organismic in this sense.''
 Wilson's father was Sloan Wilson, author of ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit,'' an emblem of mid-'50s suburban anomie that was turned into a film starring Gregory Peck. Sloan Wilson became a celebrity, with young women asking for his autograph, especially after his next novel, ''A Summer Place,'' became another blockbuster movie. The son grew up wanting to do something to make his famous father proud.
 ''I knew I couldn't be a novelist,'' said Wilson, who crackled with intensity during a telephone interview, ''so I chose something as far as possible from literature -- I chose science.'' He is disarmingly honest about what motivated him: ''I was very ambitious, and I wanted to make a mark.'' He chose to study human evolution, he said, in part because he had some of his father's literary leanings and the field required a novelist's attention to human motivations, struggles and alliances -- as well as a novelist's flair for narrative.
 Wilson eventually chose to study religion not because religion mattered to him personally -- he was raised in a secular Protestant household and says he has long been an atheist -- but because it was a lens through which to look at and revivify a branch of evolution that had fallen into disrepute. When Wilson was a graduate student at Michigan State University in the 1970s, Darwinians were critical of group selection, the idea that human groups can function as single organisms the way beehives or anthills do. So he decided to become the man who rescued this discredited idea. ''I thought, Wow, defending group selection -- now, that would be big,'' he recalled. It wasn't until the 1990s, he said, that he realized that ''religion offered an opportunity to show that group selection was right after all.''
 Dawkins once called Wilson's defense of group selection ''sheer, wanton, head-in-bag perversity.'' Atran, too, has been dismissive of this approach, calling it ''mind blind'' for essentially ignoring the role of the brain's mental machinery. The adaptationists ''cannot in principle distinguish Marxism from monotheism, ideology from religious belief,'' Atran wrote. ''They cannot explain why people can be more steadfast in their commitment to admittedly counterfactual and counterintuitive beliefs -- that Mary is both a mother and a virgin, and God is sentient but bodiless -- than to the most politically, economically or scientifically persuasive account of the way things are or should be.''
 Still, for all its controversial elements, the narrative Wilson devised about group selection and the evolution of religion is clear, perhaps a legacy of his novelist father. Begin, he says, with an imaginary flock of birds. Some birds serve as sentries, scanning the horizon for predators and calling out warnings. Having a sentry is good for the group but bad for the sentry, which is doubly harmed: by keeping watch, the sentry has less time to gather food, and by issuing a warning call, it is more likely to be spotted by the predator. So in the Darwinian struggle, the birds most likely to pass on their genes are the nonsentries. How, then, could the sentry gene survive for more than a generation or two? 
 To explain how a self-sacrificing gene can persist, Wilson looks to the level of the group. If there are 10 sentries in one group and none in the other, 3 or 4 of the sentries might be sacrificed. But the flock with sentries will probably outlast the flock that has no early-warning system, so the other 6 or 7 sentries will survive to pass on the genes. In other words, if the whole-group advantage outweighs the cost to any individual bird of being a sentry, then the sentry gene will prevail.
 There are costs to any individual of being religious: the time and resources spent on rituals, the psychic energy devoted to following certain injunctions, the pain of some initiation rites. But in terms of intergroup struggle, according to Wilson, the costs can be outweighed by the benefits of being in a cohesive group that out-competes the others.
 There is another element here too, unique to humans because it depends on language. A person's behavior is observed not only by those in his immediate surroundings but also by anyone who can hear about it. There might be clear costs to taking on a role analogous to the sentry bird -- a person who stands up to authority, for instance, risks losing his job, going to jail or getting beaten by the police -- but in humans, these local costs might be outweighed by long-distance benefits. If a particular selfless trait enhances a person's reputation, spread through the written and spoken word, it might give him an advantage in many of life's challenges, like finding a mate. One way that reputation is enhanced is by being ostentatiously religious.
 ''The study of evolution is largely the study of trade-offs,'' Wilson wrote in ''Darwin's Cathedral.'' It might seem disadvantageous, in terms of foraging for sustenance and safety, for someone to favor religious over rationalistic explanations that would point to where the food and danger are. But in some circumstances, he wrote, ''a symbolic belief system that departs from factual reality fares better.'' For the individual, it might be more adaptive to have ''highly sophisticated mental modules for acquiring factual knowledge and for building symbolic belief systems'' than to have only one or the other, according to Wilson. For the group, it might be that a mixture of hardheaded realists and symbolically minded visionaries is most adaptive and that ''what seems to be an adversarial relationship'' between theists and atheists within a community is really a division of cognitive labor that ''keeps social groups as a whole on an even keel.''
 Even if Wilson is right that religion enhances group fitness, the question remains: Where does God come in? Why is a religious group any different from groups for which a fitness argument is never even offered -- a group of fraternity brothers, say, or Yankees fans? 
 Richard Sosis, an anthropologist with positions at the University of Connecticut and Hebrew University of Jerusalem, has suggested a partial answer. Like many adaptationists, Sosis focuses on the way religion might be adaptive at the individual level. But even adaptations that help an individual survive can sometimes play themselves out through the group. Consider religious rituals. 
 ''Religious and secular rituals can both promote cooperation,'' Sosis wrote in American Scientist in 2004. But religious rituals ''generate greater belief and commitment'' because they depend on belief rather than on proof. The rituals are ''beyond the possibility of examination,'' he wrote, and a commitment to them is therefore emotional rather than logical -- a commitment that is, in Sosis's view, deeper and more long-lasting.
 Rituals are a way of signaling a sincere commitment to the religion's core beliefs, thereby earning loyalty from others in the group. ''By donning several layers of clothing and standing out in the midday sun,'' Sosis wrote, ''ultraorthodox Jewish men are signaling to others: 'Hey! Look, I'm a haredi' -- or extremely pious -- 'Jew. If you are also a member of this group, you can trust me because why else would I be dressed like this?' '' These ''signaling'' rituals can grant the individual a sense of belonging and grant the group some freedom from constant and costly monitoring to ensure that their members are loyal and committed. The rituals are harsh enough to weed out the infidels, and both the group and the individual believers benefit. 
 In 2003, Sosis and Bradley Ruffle of Ben Gurion University in Israel sought an explanation for why Israel's religious communes did better on average than secular communes in the wake of the economic crash of most of the country's kibbutzim. They based their study on a standard economic game that measures cooperation. Individuals from religious communes played the game more cooperatively, while those from secular communes tended to be more selfish. It was the men who attended synagogue daily, not the religious women or the less observant men, who showed the biggest differences. To Sosis, this suggested that what mattered most was the frequent public display of devotion. These rituals, he wrote, led to greater cooperation in the religious communes, which helped them maintain their communal structure during economic hard times. 
 In 1997, Stephen Jay Gould wrote an essay in Natural History that called for a truce between religion and science. ''The net of science covers the empirical universe,'' he wrote. ''The net of religion extends over questions of moral meaning and value.'' Gould was emphatic about keeping the domains separate, urging ''respectful discourse'' and ''mutual humility.'' He called the demarcation ''nonoverlapping magisteria'' from the Latin magister, meaning ''canon.''
 Richard Dawkins had a history of spirited arguments with Gould, with whom he disagreed about almost everything related to the timing and focus of evolution. But he reserved some of his most venomous words for nonoverlapping magisteria. ''Gould carried the art of bending over backward to positively supine lengths,'' he wrote in ''The God Delusion.'' ''Why shouldn't we comment on God, as scientists? . . . A universe with a creative superintendent would be a very different kind of universe from one without. Why is that not a scientific matter?''
 The separation, other critics said, left untapped the potential richness of letting one worldview inform the other. ''Even if Gould was right that there were two domains, what religion does and what science does,'' says Daniel Dennett (who, despite his neo-atheist label, is not as bluntly antireligious as Dawkins and Harris are), ''that doesn't mean science can't study what religion does. It just means science can't do what religion does.'' 
 The idea that religion can be studied as a natural phenomenon might seem to require an atheistic philosophy as a starting point. Not necessarily. Even some neo-atheists aren't entirely opposed to religion. Sam Harris practices Buddhist-inspired meditation. Daniel Dennett holds an annual Christmas sing-along, complete with hymns and carols that are not only harmonically lush but explicitly pious.
 And one prominent member of the byproduct camp, Justin Barrett, is an observant Christian who believes in ''an all-knowing, all-powerful, perfectly good God who brought the universe into being,'' as he wrote in an e-mail message. ''I believe that the purpose for people is to love God and love each other.''
 At first blush, Barrett's faith might seem confusing. How does his view of God as a byproduct of our mental architecture coexist with his Christianity? Why doesn't the byproduct theory turn him into a skeptic?
 ''Christian theology teaches that people were crafted by God to be in a loving relationship with him and other people,'' Barrett wrote in his e-mail message. ''Why wouldn't God, then, design us in such a way as to find belief in divinity quite natural?'' Having a scientific explanation for mental phenomena does not mean we shouldstop believing in them, he wrote. ''Suppose science produces a convincing account for why I think my wife loves me -- should I then stop believing that she does?''
 What can be made of atheists, then? If the evolutionary view of religion is true, they have to work hard at being atheists, to resist slipping into intrinsic habits of mind that make it easier to believe than not to believe. Atran says he faces an emotional and intellectual struggle to live without God in a nonatheist world, and he suspects that is where his little superstitions come from, his passing thought about crossing his fingers during turbulence or knocking on wood just in case. It is like an atavistic theism erupting when his guard is down. The comforts and consolations of belief are alluring even to him, he says, and probably will become more so as he gets closer to the end of his life. He fights it because he is a scientist and holds the values of rationalism higher than the values of spiritualism. 
 This internal push and pull between the spiritual and the rational reflects what used to be called the ''God of the gaps'' view of religion. The presumption was that as science was able to answer more questions about the natural world, God would be invoked to answer fewer, and religion would eventually recede. Research about the evolution of religion suggests otherwise. No matter how much science can explain, it seems, the real gap that God fills is an emptiness that our big-brained mental architecture interprets as a yearning for the supernatural. The drive to satisfy that yearning, according to both adaptationists and byproduct theorists, might be an inevitable and eternal part of what Atran calls the tragedy of human cognition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (87%); ARCHAEOLOGY (86%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); BIOLOGY (73%); HISTORY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) Religion and Churches; Evolution; Archaeology and Anthropology; Religion and Churches

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: Robin Marantz Henig; Scott Atran; David Sloan Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); GUATEMALA (51%); ISRAEL (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



64 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; BOOKS: DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: History, Written In the Present Tense

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS. 
Sam Tanenhaus is the editor of the Book Review.

 BODY:
With the death last week of Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., at 89, America lost its last great public historian. The notion may sound strange, given the appetite, as voracious as at any time in recent memory, for serious works of history, and in particular the vogue for lengthy, often massively detailed biographies of the founders and of presidents.
 But Mr. Schlesinger performed a different function. He stood at the forefront of a remarkable generation of academic historians. Richard Hofstadter, who died in 1970, and C. Vann Woodward, who died in 1999, were its other towering figures. All three, reciprocal admirers, wrote classic works that reanimated the past even as they rummaged in it for clues to understanding, if not solving, the most pressing political questions of the present. As a result, new books by these historians often generated excitement and conveyed an urgency felt not only by other scholars but also by the broader population of informed readers.
 ''The Vital Center,'' which Mr. Schlesinger expanded from an article he wrote for The New York Times Magazine in 1948, began with a ringing series of declarative sentences. 
 ''Western man in the middle of the 20th century is tense, uncertain, adrift,'' Mr. Schlesinger wrote. ''We look upon our epoch as a time of troubles, an age of anxiety. The grounds of our civilization, of our certitude, are breaking up under our feet, and familiar ideas and institutions vanish as we reach for them, like shadows in the falling dusk.'' 
 ''If I were writing 'The Vital Center' today, I would tone down the rhetoric,'' Mr. Schlesinger wrote in his memoir, ''A Life in the 20th Century,'' published in 2000. But that rhetoric was attuned to its moment. (The phrase ''age of anxiety,'' for instance, was the title of an eclogue by W.H. Auden, published in 1947.) And the ''hortatory lushness,'' Mr. Schlesinger rued in his memoir, suited the case he was trying to make for a new political alliance between liberals and conservatives who ''believe deeply in civil liberties, in constitutional processes and in the democratic determination of political and economic policies.'' 
 Today these seem self-evident virtues, but Mr. Schlesinger was writing in the immediate aftermath of World War II, with its fresh memories of Nazi death camps, its ongoing spectacle of Soviet brutalities and the new threat of nuclear annihilation. Mr. Schlesinger's argument that, amid these perils, democracy could not be passively accepted as a national birthright but must be struggled for reflected the emerging mood of the country. His work presaged the civil rights protests of the next two decades even as it expressed the national yearning for a new kind of politics divorced from totalizing extremism.
 All this would have made for a fine polemic. But the power of the book radiates from Mr. Schlesinger's knowledge of modern history, American and European -- in his concise but learned discussions of the Federalists, Whigs and Progressives and also of the roots of Communism and Fascism. This ability to find latent connections between the present and the past, as well as between American and Continental thinkers, elevated ''The Vital Center'' above the ranks of articulate manifestoes and placed it in the company of other monitory classics written at more or less the same cold war moment, including George Orwell's ''1984,'' Hannah Arendt's ''Origins of Totalitarianism,'' Whittaker Chambers's ''Witness'' and Reinhold Niebuhr's ''Irony of American History.'' (I should note here that Mr. Schlesinger favorably reviewed my biography of Chambers in The New York Times Book Review.)
 That the phrase ''vital center'' has become a catchword for Democratic Party strategists intent on capturing the mainstream electorate attests to Mr. Schlesinger's gift for phrase-making -- a gift capitalized on by politicians like Adlai Stevenson, whose campaign he worked on.
 But the phrase's popularity also suggests that he wrote with an authority not to be found among younger historians and political thinkers, who continue to borrow from their elders. Peter Beinart, the former editor of The New Republic, has repeatedly invoked the vital center -- the term but also the book -- in magazine articles and in his own recent book, ''The Good Fight.'' Indeed, his book is patently an homage to Mr. Schlesinger's. 
 And this raises a troubling question. Why do current historians seem unable to engage the world as confidently as Mr. Schlesinger did?
 One reason may have to do with an obvious but easily overlooked fact about Mr. Schlesinger's sizable oeuvre. He wrote less often about the past than about the present -- or the nearly present. His three-volume opus, ''The Age of Roosevelt,'' described events that occurred when Mr. Schlesinger was in his teens and 20s. His volumes on the Kennedys -- ''A Thousand Days,'' about President Kennedy, and ''Robert Kennedy and His Times'' -- were more current still, indeed full of news, since Mr. Schlesinger knew and worked intimately with both men.
 This proximity to his subjects, not to mention Mr. Schlesinger's unabashed admiration for both men, left him vulnerable to the charge that he had abandoned his objectivity and had become a ''court historian.'' Perhaps. But court historians have written masterpieces, the Duc de Saint-Simon's memoirs of the Court of Louis XIV, to give one famous example. Mr. Schlesinger's biographies of the Kennedy brothers have a similar glitter: large characters observed from close range but also with a wholeness only a professional historian could achieve.
 When, for instance, Mr. Schlesinger described, in ''A Thousand Days,'' how the Kennedy family early on ''was still marginal socially in Brahmin Boston; and its folk memories were those of a time, not too far distant, when to be Irish was to be poor and have gates slammed in one's face,'' it's not just Mr. Schlesinger's sympathy that absorbs us. It is also his detachment and the subtlety of his prose.
 And when he wrote of Robert Kennedy that he combined the warring traits of an ''incorrigible romantic'' and ''a realistic political leader'' for whom ''the ethic of responsibility prevailed over the ethic of ultimate ends,'' Mr. Schlesinger was not simply spinning lyrical phrases. He was drawing explicitly on the great essay by Max Weber, ''Politics as a Vocation.'' Mr. Schlesinger was plainly confident that Kennedy stood up to such large terms, and his narrative clinches that claim. It is hard to imagine our more recent leaders being discussed in such lofty terms.
 Might they be unworthy? Well, the Kennedys may have been, too, if we measure them by the standards now applied to political figures. The point is not that our leaders have shrunk, but that, in some sense, our historians have.
 This may seem unfair. After all, we live in what is often called a golden age of history and biography, when David McCullough, to cite the most obvious example, has attained fame and enormous sales.
 But in truth Mr. McCullough and others as talented, or nearly so, don't command the broad cultural authority that Mr. Schlesinger and his contemporaries did. Nor, for that matter, do academic historians like Gordon S. Wood and James M. McPherson, though their books resonate beyond the university.
 The problem is not one of seriousness, intelligence or skill. It is rather one of reach. Mr. Wood's ''Radicalism of the American Revolution'' is a major contribution to our understanding of its subject, and Mr. McPherson's ''Battle Cry of Freedom'' enthralled readers. But neither work can be said to have affected how many of us think about current issues.
 This is even truer of the many popular books on America's founding founders, from Washington and Adams to Jefferson and Hamilton, and on the lesser figures from the period now being exhumed.
 These are books that, for all their merits, seem not only about the past but also, to some extent, mired in it. They are archival. And that may be the problem. Mr. Schlesinger's accounts of midcentury American politics have the pageantry, texture and depth we normally find in books about long-vanished eras in that they were written by a historian convinced he was living in a period no less than rich than those earlier ones.
 And in fact he was. He -- and Hofstadter and Woodward -- reached maturity as historians at the precise moment when the nation itself was coming into its own, a freshly minted world power blessed with unparalleled wealth and social mobility.
 But it didn't always seem so. It began as an ''age of anxiety.'' That it seems grander in retrospect is partly owed to the brio and passion of Mr. Schlesinger and his generation of historians. If our own anxious age is to attain similar heights our historians must help lead the way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Public Historian -- Arthur Schlesinger, shown outside New York's Biltmore Hotel, used history to speak of present-day problems. (Photo by Michael Evans/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); POLITICS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); HOLOCAUST (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) United States Politics and Government; History 

PERSON: Sam Tanenhaus; Arthur M Jr Schlesinger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



65 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai What-If: How a Shock Can Become a Shock Wave

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
COULD this be the global financial meltdown? Less than a week ago, it might have seemed preposterous to suggest that a 9 percent fall in the Shanghai stock exchange could jolt markets across the world, triggering declines in everything from European stocks to American corporate bonds.
 Yet such unlikely chains of events have been known to occur. Less than 10 years ago, the devaluation of the Thai baht on July 2, 1997, triggered a wave of currency collapses across East Asia and beyond. 
By December of that year, the currencies of Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines had depreciated by about 75 percent, on average. Then the ruble fell. The Russian government defaulted on its domestic debt. By the time the dust settled, Brazil had devalued the real, Turkey had devalued the lira and the Argentine peso had collapsed. 
 Economies contracted from Ecuador to Singapore. And the high-flying hedge fund Long Term Capital Management, which had borrowed heaps of money to make risky bets across the globe, was only saved from the brink through a bailout organized by the Federal Reserve. 
 ''These panics can be set off by any number of things and spread in many wondrous ways,'' said Alan Blinder, an economist at Princeton University who was vice chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1994 to 1996. ''Every one of these is different.''
 The world, of course, is a different place than it was in the late 1990s. Developing countries are in much better shape, mostly growing fast and running trade surpluses rather than deficits. Many have repaid much of their foreign debt. And they have piled up humongous reserves. 
 Moreover, despite a slowdown in the United States, the global economy appears to be doing swimmingly. Growth in Europe and Japan has picked up. The International Monetary Fund expects the world economy to grow around 5 percent in 2007, about the same pace as last year. 
 Even so, there are some dangers lurking, notably America's enormous trade deficit. But decisions by investors last week to dump risky assets like stocks in China or Brazil and instead buy safer bets like United States Treasury bonds actually makes it easier to finance America's shortfall. 
 Still, the financial commotion last week underscored the extent to which financial markets everywhere are propped up by the same shaky crutch that has played a prominent role in the events leading up to crises in the past: overconfidence. ''It was a bit of a wake-up call to investors about the risks out there,'' said Kristin J. Forbes, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was on President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers from 2003 to 2005. ''Up to now investors had become too complacent about risk.'' 
 Facing paltry yields on high quality assets like United States Treasury bonds, and diminishing returns on more stocks in industrial countries, investors have delved farther afield in pursuit of higher returns. 
 They rushed again into developing countries -- pouring more than $500 billion into ''emerging markets'' last year and a similar amount in 2005. At its peak on Feb. 8, the Bombay stock market index was 49 percent higher than a year earlier. The Mexican market index was up about 55 percent in the year at its peak on Feb. 21. Even after the crack on Tuesday, the Shanghai stock market index is still twice as high as it was a year ago.
 Investors have also rushed to buy dicey assets closer to home, like corporate bonds with a relatively high risk of default. 
 Last year, even as the housing market started tottering, investors snapped up $483 billion in bonds backed by sub-prime mortgages issued to the riskiest borrowers. The year before they bought over $500 billion worth of the shaky paper. 
 And many large investors, from pension funds to hedge funds, have doubled up their risk-taking not only by making these bets with borrowed money, but by borrowing it in Japan, where short-term interest rates have been exceptionally low. This could expose them to abrupt losses were the dollar to fall against the yen.
 The question is, how does this all unwind?
 According to the benign scenario, which most economists are betting on, including Ms. Forbes and Mr. Blinder, last week's financial troubles will be short-lived -- merely an instance of investors recovering their sense of risk and pulling back from some of their crazier investments, but doing no harm to the real economy. 
 ''So far the betting is this is more a healthy correction rather than a plunge,'' said William Cline, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
 Still, crises move in mysterious ways. And there are plausible paths for the financial turbulence to worsen. As Ms. Forbes acknowledged, ''The crisis of the future never looks like the crisis of the past.'' 
 Let's imagine, for instance, that one unlucky hedge fund borrowed oodles of yen to invest in sub-prime mortgage-backed bonds and Turkish debt. 
 Let's also say that the yen continued to rise, as it did last week, as more investors caught by the financial crunch sold their losing investments to buy yen in order to repay their Japanese borrowings.
 Meanwhile, mortgage-backed bonds and Turkish debt continued to fall.
 This could mean trouble for the hedge fund, which would find itself owing yen that were rising in value but owning assets that were falling in value. 
 That might mean trouble for the banks that lent it money. And if the hedge fund were forced into a fire sale of Turkish bonds, say because it needs more collateral to back up a loan, it could be a problem for Turkey, because the sudden flood of its bonds on the market would cause their prices to drop. And if the price of its bonds fell, Turkey would have a tougher time trying to raise the cash it needs to finance its current deficit. 
 If Turkey were to go 
 As Mr. Cline put it, ''these things are so predictable in hindsight.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Free Fall -- The plunge of China's stock market added to worries in the United States about the decline in the housing market and loans to risky borrowers. (Photo by China Photos, via Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%) Shanghai Stock Exchange

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%) EAST CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



66 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Stealth Wealth; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: The Untaxed Rich, Found and Then Lost

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
FALSE advertising is part of the problem, and it's right there in the name: alternative minimum tax. 
 ''Minimum,'' when the tax was conceived, meant that even the wealthiest Americans, with their buffet of deductions, loopholes and shelters, would still pay some income tax.
''Alternative,'' added to the name of the tax 21 years ago, suggests a choice, but it's not much of one for one in four taxpayers this year who must pay using this calculation unless Congress comes up with a different ''alternative'' when it takes up the matter this week. 
 What happened between 1969, when the minimum tax was born, and today, when it has few champions -- and many people scratching their heads? And how could it be that a tax aimed squarely at rich investors who paid no income tax now hits middle-class families? 
 The '69 version of the tax was more or less what it set out to be, right or wrong. And that was a remedy to the disclosure by the Johnson administration that 155 rich families some of whom made millions in 1966 had not paid any taxes -- taxes that for other Americans were rising to pay for the Vietnam War. If deductions like the ones for owning oil wells and leasing rail cars had whittled some tax bills down to nothing, these rich earners would be required to pay something.
 But in 1986, when President Ronald Reagan and both parties on Capitol Hill agreed to a major change in the tax system, the law was subtly changed to aim at a wholly different set of deductions, the ones that everyone gets, like the personal exemption, state and local taxes, the standard deduction, certain expenses like union dues and even some medical costs for the seriously ill. At the same time it removed and revised some of the exotic investment deductions. A law for untaxed rich investors was refocused on families who own their homes in high tax states.
 Taxes are now calculated two ways -- using the traditional income tax formula, and using the 1986 alternative tax formula -- and taxpayers owe the higher of the two numbers. The majority of families with two or more children earning $75,000 to $500,000 now owe more under the alternative tax -- anywhere from hundreds of dollars to tens of thousands of dollars annually. Among such families with an adjusted gross income of $75,000 to $100,000, almost 80 percent are affected, compared with just a third of those with incomes of $1 million or more, according to computer modeling studies by the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute.
 Repealing the alternative minimum tax would cost the government almost $70 billion this year, while putting everyone on the alternative and repealing the regular income tax would cost only $63 billion.
 Simply removing personal tax exemptions and credits and indexing for inflation would reduce the number of taxpayers affected by 85 percent, the center estimated. That would retain the few, weakened provisions still in effect from the 1969 law intended to tax the rich. 
 For now, the only area of wide agreement is to keep enacting temporary patches until Congress and some future administration tackle fundamental changes in the tax code. 
 Regardless, until another course is chosen, a law focused on rich investors who paid little or no tax is now a law that affects 23.4 million of the nation's 90 million taxpayers. 
 The story began on Jan. 17, 1969, three days before the Johnson administration was to end. Joseph W. Barr, who served only a few weeks as Treasury secretary, told a Congressional panel about the 155 families who paid no income tax, despite incomes of $1 million or more in today's dollars. 
 Mr. Barr's report made the front page of newspapers across the country the next morning and fueled debates in coffee shops, police stations and across kitchen tables. Congress in 1969 received more letters about these untaxed Americans than it did about Vietnam, according to Michael Graetz, a Yale Law School professor and tax adviser in the George H. W. Bush administration.
 While the idea of paying your fair share as a moral issue may seem strange today, it was central to tax debates in that era. The disclosure that some of those who had gained the most by living in the United States did not share in the costs of the war infuriated many taxpayers.
 But in 1986, when the '69 remedy was fundamentally changed, there was virtually no news coverage because at the time the changes affected only a few people. The initial amount of deductions before the new alternative minimum tax kicked in was set so high that in the first year it raised only the $1.7 billion needed to plug a hole in President Reagan's budget. 
 The alternative tax's long-term effect was given no more consideration than, say, the exemptions on fuel-economy standards the government in the 1960s gave to sport utilities -- vehicles that at the time were far less common and were used mostly for work that required hauling. 
 Since its inception, the alternative tax has raised more and more revenue each year, reducing the perennial federal budget deficits. Indeed, President Bush's 2001 income tax cut plan was premised on taking back a third of the tax cut through increasing alternative minimum tax revenues. 
 Left unchanged, the alternative tax this year will take back about 27 percent of the Bush tax cuts, mostly from people making $75,000 to $500,000, the Tax Policy Center calculated. The center's estimates are held in high regard by the administration and by administration critics.
 Two major factors now push people into the alternative system. One is that the alternative tax rate of 21 percent in 1986 was raised in 1993 to rates of 26 and 28 percent, in tandem with the increased rates in the regular tax system that President Bill Clinton sponsored. This held the spread between the two systems steady, Professor Graetz said.
 But when Mr. Bush sponsored his tax cuts in 2001, they applied only to the regular tax system, narrowing the spread and pushing many more people into the alternative system.
 Because those on the alternative system cannot deduct state and local taxes, their marginal tax rates are often above 40 percent, a level many economists say is high enough to discourage earning more and to encourage cheating. Many of these taxpayers also lose the benefits of the lower capital gains and dividend rates that President Bush championed as tools for economic growth.
 Professor Graetz says that a second factor is inflation, which has eroded the value of the exemption from the alternative tax, pushing millions of people into it. The dollar has lost more than 44 percent of its value since 1986.
 Meanwhile the stated goal of the original tax is not being met under the successor tax enacted 21 years ago. A far greater number of well-off families still pay only small amounts of tax. More than 41,000 taxpayers with incomes of $200,000 or more in 2003, the last year for which figures are available, paid less than 10 percent of their income in individual income taxes. And the number of untaxed high-income families -- once 155 -- grew to 2,824.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Doug Dreyer/Associated Press)
(Photo by Robert White/Zefa via, Corbis)Chart: ''In a Tax's Cross Hairs''The minimum tax, aimed at the rich and introduced in 1969, is now the alternative minimum tax ensnaring middle-class families. Originally, deductions were disallowed to rich investors
after tinkering by Congress in 1986, common deductions were disallowed.1969DEDUCTIONS NOT ALLOWED:* Excess investment interest* Accelerated depreciation of real property and leased personal property* Amortization of certified pollution control facilities, railroad rolling stock* Stock options* Reserves for losses on bad debts of financial institutions* Untaxed oil and mineral income* Most capital gainsTodayDEDUCTIONS NOT ALLOWED:* Personal exemptions for taxpayers and their dependents* State and local tax, standard and some medical deductions* Paper losses for mom-and-pop landlords* Home-equity loans for anything other than home improvement* Prior year business losses, passive investment losses and some depreciation* Incentive stock options and some capital gains* 15 additional minor items(Source by Tax Policy Center
 Internal Revenue Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); VIETNAM WAR (51%); MODELING & SIMULATION (50%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Law and Legislation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%) David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



67 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Jessica Jacobson, James Reisman

 BODY:
Jessica Lee Jacobson and James Gerald Reisman are to be married this afternoon. Judge Thomas G. Armstrong of the 10th Judicial District Court, in Stillwater, Minn., is to officiate at the University Club of St. Paul. 
 The bride, 32, is keeping her name. She is employed by International Projekt Consult in Frankfurt as a deputy project director in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The bank is funded by 61 countries and provides financing for banks, industries and other businesses in former Socialist or Communist countries. She graduated from the College of William and Mary and has a master's degree in public affairs from Princeton.
She is the daughter of Rae and David Jacobson of Lakeville, Minn. Her father retired as an account manager in Shakopee, Minn., for Seagate Technology, the computer disk drive manufacturer. Her mother, a psychiatric nurse, retired from Regions Hospital in St. Paul. 
 The bridegroom, 39, is an electrical engineer. He works in Princeton, N.J., where he is on the senior technical staff of a research subsidiary of Siemens, the German electronics manufacturer. He graduated from Carnegie Mellon and received a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Pennsylvania State University. 
 He is a son of Ann and Howard Reisman of Southampton, N.Y. His mother is a leader of a group at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, N.Y., that studies climate changes and issues related to energy demand and use. His father is a professor of biology at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Howard Berg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); ELECTRONICS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (83%); SIEMENS AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: STX (NASDAQ) (83%); SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (LSE) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%); SI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



68 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: A Portland Community Forges a New Identity

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Me. 

 BODY:
AFTER Heidi and William Wood moved into a two-bedroom apartment in Unity Village last fall, they baked cookies and knocked on the doors of every neighbor in the 33-unit development.
 They encountered young professionals like themselves who had looked for a well-managed building and reasonable market-rate rents in one of New England's hot small cities. But they also met Somali immigrants, single mothers and adults so down on their luck they had just moved out of the shelter up the street.
The couple, who are college graduates, and their neighbors reflect the economic, cultural and racial diversity that distinguishes not only Unity Village, which opened six years ago, but also the Bayside neighborhood, which is one of Portland's oldest, is still its poorest and is becoming its most unusual.
 The neighborhood, which sits on a bluff behind City Hall and overlooks Back Cove and Interstate 295, is stirring again after decades of neglect that turned it from a prosperous 19th- and early-20th-century area of middle-class merchants to a place where city workers parked during the day and society's forgotten dwelled in the evening's shadows. 
 Now it is possible on the same Bayside block to eat a $100 meal at one of the city's fine seafood restaurants or get one free at a soup kitchen that feeds 500 people daily. Residents here sleep in historic 19th-century homes, some worth $300,000 or more -- still a relative bargain in a city where houses with water views can easily cost $600,000 or more -- while transients can get a free bed at overnight shelters, one for men and the other for women. 
 On Bayside's south end are worn convenience stores with metal grates on the windows selling cigarettes and beer. On the north end is a new 47,000-square-foot Whole Foods Market.
 To some longtime residents, the neighborhood's transformation over the last decade has been anticipated, but it is nevertheless striking. 
 ''This was the horrendously ugly part of town,'' said Ron Spinella, an artist and gallery owner who is chairman of the Bayside Neighborhood Association and has lived in the community since 1996. 
 ''The scrap yards are here,'' he said. ''Buildings weren't being used. Houses were empty. But we also had more vacant and unused property than any neighborhood, in a city that was revitalizing very fast. So you just knew that the city's deteriorated back door could become its handsome front door.''
 The Bayside neighborhood is not at that point yet, but it appears to be on the way. 
 The question facing developers and the city, which adopted a Bayside redevelopment plan in 1999, was this: Would people with means, particularly college-educated professionals just getting started, be willing to settle in a neighborhood known for its soup kitchen, shelters and transients? 
 Unity Village, which cost $5.25 million and opened in 2001, seems to have answered that question, city officials and residents say. In their view, it has served as an economic catalyst that has helped stabilize the neighborhood by providing shelter and a sense of community for those with rising fortunes, like the Woods, and those less fortunate. By offering affordable apartments in attractive town-house-style buildings just blocks from City Hall and the arts, central business and entertainment districts of the city, it has coaxed people of different incomes, backgrounds and races to live side by side.
 ''A lot of people didn't think it could happen,'' said Alex Jaegerman, the director of Portland's planning department. ''Piece by piece, it's happening.''
 Mr. and Mrs. Wood, who arrived at Unity Village last September after she completed a graduate degree in social work from Smith College in Northampton Mass., said they were more than satisfied with their new home. 
 ''We specifically chose Bayside,'' said Mrs. Wood, 31, who just landed a job as a clinical social worker with the Providence Service Corporation in Brunswick. Mr. Wood is a regional coordinator in New England for the Bahai faith. 
 ''We were looking for a city that was close to the ocean, and a neighborhood that was as diverse as possible,'' Mrs. Wood said. They pay $850 a month for their two-bedroom apartment.
 Jennifer Guptill, a 32-year-old property manager and single mother, has lived in Unity Village since October 2005 with her four children in a three-bedroom market-rate apartment that rents for $1,000 a month. That is hundreds of dollars a month less than similar apartments in the tonier neighborhoods to the north and west that overlook Casco Bay and the Atlantic. 
 ''Outside of the fact that the homeless shelter is around the corner, it seems like they are making Bayside better,'' Ms. Guptill said. ''My vision is to stay here as long as I need, as long as it is safe and it continues to get cleaned up. The neighborhood's improving.''
 The neighborhood's population is slowly growing. A century ago, Bayside was a densely packed community of stout homes that sheltered perhaps 5,000 residents. Urban renewal, though, scraped away many of the homes, replacing them with parking lots. Other houses were abandoned. The homeless shelters were established in the 1970s. The population dropped below 1,000. 
 Then in the 1990s, Portland, which now has 64,000 residents, the same number as it did in 1990, joined other New England cities in experiencing an economic and cultural revival. Upwardly mobile young professionals resettled the city's seaside neighborhoods. Artists colonized lofts and old homes in other neighborhoods. 
 Bayside, with its ample open spaces and old homes ready to be rehabilitated, was seen by city planners as a place of metropolitan opportunity. With the help of Bayside residents, the city developed its plan to turn Bayside into Portland's ''urban gateway.'' The neighborhood's population is now about 1,400.
 To accompany the increase in residents, Bayside is seeing a rise in construction. A 37-unit loft-style condominium is being built on Chestnut Street. Apartments will be priced from just under $200,000 to $400,000, numbers competitive in Portland's market, which has cooled in recent months.
 Avesta Housing, a nonprofit developer of affordable housing based in Portland, will open a 60-unit apartment building later this year on the corner of Pearl and Oxford Streets. Rents will be $700 for a one-bedroom, $840 for a two-bedroom and $950 for a three-bedroom, including utilities. Work on a 105,000-square-foot medical office building is scheduled to get under way in the spring. 
 Unity Village, the first project completed under the gateway plan, was developed by Jim Hatch, a nonprofit housing consultant, and Richard Berman, the principal of Berman Associates, a local builder. 
 Both men responded to the city's request to build on three city-owned lots that make up the Unity Village site. Winton Scott Architects designed the four three-story buildings. One-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments are on the ground floor, with three-bedroom units above. Each apartment has a front door and a stoop that faces the street. Because the project is in the central city, the designers minimized the number of parking spaces and maximized the development's density. 
 Seven apartments are reserved for families and couples capable of paying market rents. Seven other apartments are reserved as transitional homes for people moving out of shelters. The remaining 19 units are subsidized housing for single men and women and working families, many of them with young children and teenagers who are often found in Unity Village's community room during the winter, or on the Oxford Street playground when it's warm. 
 Unity Village has attracted national notice among public housing agencies for its novel layout and design. 
 In 2005, the federal Environmental Protection Agency awarded Berman Associates the Environmental Merit Award for significant contributions to environmental awareness and problem solving.
 ''These projects take stamina, patience and creativity,'' the award citation said. 
 As part of the area's transformation, industrial sites and junkyards are being removed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: REDEVELOPMENT -- Unity Village in the Bayside neighborhood of Portland, Me., above, offers mixed-income housing for tenants like Jennifer Guptill, below left with her four children. The developer Richard Berman, left, received an award for its novel layout and design. A new Whole Foods Market has sprung up near an old scrap yard. (Photographs by Herb Swanson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (75%); ETHNICITY (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%) Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (52%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%)

PERSON: Keith Schneider

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (94%) MAINE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (92%) Portland (Me); Portland (Me)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



69 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Sita Sonty, Ross Taggart

 BODY:
Sreelakshmi Sita Sonty was married to Ross Gordon Taggart on Friday. Gerald E. Williams, a civil magistrate, officiated in his office in Arlington, Va. On Feb. 21, a Hindu priest performed a religious ceremony at the Taj Exotica, a hotel in Benaulim, India. 
 Ms. Sonty, 27, is keeping her name. She is the desk officer for Syria at the State Department in Washington. In 2004, she worked as an action officer at the United States Embassy in Baghdad, reporting on developments in the Iraqi cabinet. . She graduated from Amherst and received a master's degree in international relations and economics from Johns Hopkins.
She is a daughter of Sarada Purna Sonty and Dr. Sriram Sonty of Flossmoor, Ill. Her father is an ophthalmologist at the Midwest Eye Center in Calumet City, Ill. Her mother teaches online courses in Sanskrit for Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University in Hyderabad, India.
 Mr. Taggart, 41, was until January the desk officer for the United Arab Emirates at the State Department. He is on a one-year assignment away from the department, working in Washington as a legislative assistant for foreign affairs to Senator Barbara Boxer as part of a Brookings Institution fellowship for government executives. He graduated from the University of Arizona and received a master's degree in public policy from the Monterey Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif.
 He is the son of Nancy Taggart Hoffman of Penn Valley, Calif., and the late John Adam Taggart, and a stepson of Ray Taggart. The bridegroom's father taught English at Carlmont High School in Belmont, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); RELIGION (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); DISTANCE LEARNING (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); IRAQ (91%); SYRIA (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



70 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Borrowers Afloat

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
AS foreclosure rates rise, lenders are redoubling their efforts to keep borrowers afloat. Mortgage executives say that because foreclosures hurt them, too, they are trying to help curb the trend. 
 Take, for instance, Freddie Mac, the government-backed company that buys mortgages from lenders. Late last month, the company said it would increase financial incentives for lenders who work with borrowers to keep them current.
''Every time someone defaults, we lose money,'' said Ingrid Beckles, a Freddie Mac vice president. ''So it's in everybody's best interest to try to keep borrowers in their homes.'' 
 Ms. Beckles said that Freddie Mac, which currently finances about 10 million mortgages, has in the past paid banks and other mortgage servicers $200 per case when they were able to work out repayment plans with borrowers who were 90 days late on their mortgages. Now, she said, Freddie Mac has increased the payment to $250 and shortened the late period to one month. 
 According to the Federal Reserve Board, homeowners are falling behind on their mortgages at a faster clip than a year ago. The Fed said last week that 2.11 percent of all residential loans were delinquent in the fourth quarter of 2006, meaning that the borrowers had missed at least one payment. That compares 1.78 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 The Fed did not break out regional statistics, but companies that track foreclosures like ForeclosureS.com, based in Fair Oaks, Calif., said that troubles have been most numerous in the Northeast, Midwest and Southeast. In the Northeast, for example, foreclosures in the counties it tracks jumped 65 percent. In New York they rose by 24.5 percent, and in New Jersey, they more than doubled.
 (ForeclosureS.com does not track enough counties in Connecticut to provide a statistically significant sample.) 
 Especially in cities with weaker economies, like those in the Rust Belt that experienced the loss of manufacturing jobs last year, homeowners who fell behind on their mortgages often could neither refinance their loans to get better terms nor sell their homes at prices high enough to repay their debt.
 Borrowers who have missed a mortgage payment or are at risk of missing one should know that lenders ''are supposed to be able to exhaust all possibilities to help them stay in their homes,'' Ms. Beckles of Freddie Mac said. ''So if someone tells them they can't help,'' she said, ''borrowers should push it until they speak to someone who's in a position of authority.''
 Lenders will sometimes allow borrowers to spread their missed payment out over the course of several months, Ms. Beckles said, or they may come up with other solutions. 
 Alexis McGee, the president of ForeclosureS.com, said that borrowers in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have an advantage over people in other states, in that foreclosures are executed in the courts. ''That can take 12 to 18 months,'' she said, ''compared to states like Texas and Georgia, where the house goes to auction in 30 days.''
 Ms. McGee and Serdar Bankaci, the chief executive of another foreclosure-tracking firm, Default Research, said people who own homes that are in foreclosure are often the target of scam artists. 
 Among other things, they said, swindlers will try to charge borrowers $1,000 or more to negotiate on the borrowers' behalf with their lenders. But borrowers can find similar help for much less money from counselors at established nonprofit organizations like Consumer Credit Counseling Services (cccsintl.org).
 At FreddieMac.com, the company offers tips for avoiding such scams, as well as for avoiding delinquency. From the site's home page, look for the ''Owning and Keeping a Home'' link; then on the left side, look for ''Avoiding Foreclosure.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); HOME PRICES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Housing; Mortgages; Foreclosures

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Board; Freddie Mac

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



71 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Say Home Prices Rose Little, if at All

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
After many years of double-digit appreciation in residential real estate around New Jersey, home values did not rise significantly last year and may have slipped, according to real estate market analysts. 
 While the New Jersey Association of Realtors says the median home price climbed 2 percent, another industry analyst says it actually fell 10 percent.
Whether there has been a correction or not, everyone agrees on some things: The years of rapid housing inflation are over, but there has been no crash. And houses are selling now, especially at the more affordable end of the spectrum.
 ''We're seeing things under $300,00 or $400,000 starting to move again,'' said Bill Hanley, president of the state Realtors association. ''The days of double-digit appreciation are over, but there are still multiple offers on homes when they are priced right.''
 Jeffrey G. Otteau, the president of the Otteau Appraisal Group Inc., an East Brunswick company that studies industry trends for real estate agents, said his analysis, which matches comparable segments of the market over time, indicates that prices have dropped substantially in 2006. He said the Realtors association overstates the actual market prices in the current year because it fails to account for the larger size of newer homes.
 ''What we experienced was not a crash, but an adjustment of about 10 percent, which was needed to bring affordability back into balance,'' Mr. Otteau said. ''The housing market has now begun its recovery.'' 
 Mr. Hanley, manager of Weichert Realtors in Metuchen, and Mr. Otteau each said there were large inventories in more expensive price ranges -- over $600,000 -- that would take a year or more to work off at the present rate of sales. But in lower price ranges, homes have sold more briskly, they said.
 ''You'll find you had more appreciation in central and South Jersey, where the more affordable homes are,'' Mr. Hanley said.
 Mr. Otteau predicted that even with sales picking up, the rapid appreciation of prices that was seen in recent years would not resume. 
 ''Although the recovery has now begun, prices will remain at or near current levels, and won't increase anytime soon,'' because the unsold inventory will keep supply above demand, he said.
 The trends in New Jersey are similar to those in the rest of the suburban region. On Long Island, the median home price dropped in Nassau County and rose slightly in Suffolk in January, compared with a year earlier. In Westchester County, the median price dropped 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, compared with the same period a year earlier, and sales volume was down considerably as well.
 P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive officer of the Westchester County Board of Realtors, said he expected prices to remain flat for at least the next two quarters. On Long Island, Pearl Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group, said she expected prices would continue to fall through 2008 before resuming modest appreciation of 2 to 3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (63%); SUBURBS (61%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: WEICHERT REALTORS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



72 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2515 words

HEADLINE: New Winds at an Island Outpost

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
STANDING behind the cramped counter of Los Guarinos, his bodega in Washington Heights, Joel Olivo deals not in big money but in small change. Jolly Ranchers candies, at a nickel apiece, are among his biggest sellers. Los Guarinos also sells cold beer and cigarettes, but on most days it is sweetness that prevails there. Neighborhood children ask for chocolate bars, and an arcade game in the corner fills the bodega with an electronic lullaby. 
 In Mr. Olivo's establishment, in a modest storefront on Amsterdam Avenue near 161st Street, gambling is discouraged. Yet there is a running bet in the store that is a sign of changing times in this neighborhood: How many years will it take for Dominicans, who have dominated Washington Heights for decades, to become the minority there, and for whites to become the new majority?
Some of Mr. Olivo's customers and friends say five years. Others predict seven. ''I say 10 years,'' Mr. Olivo said. 
 This is not your ordinary gentrification story. Washington Heights, the densely developed square mile that extends from 155th Street to roughly Dyckman Street, and from river to river, is to Dominicans what Harlem has been to blacks: a cultural capital with deep symbolic meaning. But over the past few years, this neighborhood of five- and six-story prewar apartment buildings has grown wealthier, hipper and better educated. 
 As the neighborhood has changed, a growing number of its Dominicans have moved to University Heights, Morris Heights and other neighborhoods in the west Bronx; some have left the city altogether. The wager at Los Guarinos is a lighthearted take not only on this exodus, but also on the questions it raises about the future of Washington Heights as a working-class Dominican stronghold. 
 The Dominican migration, powered by rising rents and other costs, is scattering families and friends who lived in the neighborhood for generations. This reshuffling is also fueling an uptown real estate boom, widening the gap between rich and poor, and realigning Dominican political power in the city. The shifts have even inspired an Off Broadway musical. 
 Mr. Olivo is confident about his prediction as to the neighborhood's future. ''I know I'll win,'' he said, ''because everyone is moving.'' But he does not believe that he will be around to collect. ''The rent,'' he explained, ''will kick me out.'' 
 Washington Heights has welcomed immigrants for a century. The Irish arrived in the early 1900s. European Jews, among them the family of Henry Kissinger, flocked there to escape the Nazis in the 1930s and 1940s, around the time that affluent African-Americans like the jazz musician Count Basie migrated up from Harlem. By the 1950s and 1960s, so many Greeks lived in Washington Heights that the neighborhood was known as the Astoria of Manhattan. Even as that label gained currency, Cubans and Puerto Ricans were beginning to move in. 
 The '80s and the '90s, however, belonged to the Dominicans. 
 Bremilde Ramos, a 29-year-old waitress with dark hair and a bright smile, remembers the summers: old men playing dominoes on tables on the sidewalk, the packed streets transformed into playgrounds. She also remembers the scary times, like the day in 1999 when a man was shot and killed inside her building on West 162nd Street. And she remembers that one apartment operated as a makeshift brothel.
 Yet Ms. Ramos, who, like thousands of her fellow Dominicans, immigrated to Washington Heights with her family as a child, also recalls the vibrancy amid the grime. ''You felt like you were in your own,'' she said. ''This was your own little country, you know, so many Hispanics were around.''
 New York has many Hispanic enclaves, but only in Washington Heights did the size, density and visibility of the Latino population create a kind of sixth borough. From this high perch, visitors often wonder if they have accidentally stumbled into the 31st province of the Dominican Republic.
 Those visitors can pass a barbershop on 181st Street and see a customer who happens to be the nephew of Joaquin Balaguer, a former president of the Dominican Republic. They can find not only Dominican merchants, but also Dominican doctors and Dominican lawyers. The red, white and blue Dominican flag flies from fire escapes, streetlights, even Pepsi trucks.
 One morning in 2004, the local streets erupted with noisy political debate as thousands of voters cast their ballots for president. But the focus was not on Bush and Kerry. It was on Mejia and Fernandez, candidates for the Dominican presidency. The vote represented the first time that Dominicans living abroad could vote in a Dominican presidential election.'Rich Folks and Hipsters'
 The recent transformation of Washington Heights is reflected not only on the streets but also on the stage. ''In the Heights,'' a charming little musical that opened last month at 37 Arts, on West 37th Street near 10th Avenue, offers a snapshot of a neighborhood in flux. ''When this whole city is rich folks and hipsters,'' a bodega owner wonders, ''who's going to miss this raggedy little business?'' The owner of a hair salon announces that she is moving her shop to the Bronx, where rents are cheaper.
 When another character learns that the bodega is shutting for good, he screams: ''This is the end of an era!'' The line is intended as a joke, but seven miles north of the theater, in the shops and restaurants of Washington Heights, the words resonate less cheerfully. 
 Signs of change, many small but telling, fill the streets. You can still get a crispy chicken empanada for $1 at 181st Street and Audubon Avenue, where Jose Castillo has been selling them from a pushcart for nearly a decade, but you can also buy an $8 goat cheese tartine a half-mile away at In Vino Veritas, on St. Nicholas Avenue. While some tenants still pay $600 a month for a one-bedroom apartment, others pay triple that. 
 In a sense, the neighborhood is becoming two neighborhoods, even down to its name. Old-timers call it the Heights; newcomers, particularly those who log onto www.washington-heights.us, refer to Washington Heights and its northern neighbor Inwood as WaHI, in a kind of SoHo-speak. 
 The corner of 181st Street and Audubon Avenue still bustles noon to night with flashes of rapid-fire Spanish conversations and bursts of merengue blaring from passing cars. But the signs of change are increasingly visible. New residents can enjoy live jazz Thursday nights at Plum Pomidor on Broadway. They can visit the Starbucks on 181st Street. At the elegant Hispaniola restaurant a few doors down from Starbucks, they can dine on miso butterfish with steamed rice for $28.
 Ms. Ramos, the waitress, sees fewer Dominican mom-and-pop stores and more chain stores. Mr. Olivo can now count among his Dominican customers six people who moved to the Bronx. And when Ms. Ramos visits her mother's building on 162nd Street, she notices more non-Hispanic white faces. Her best friend, who used to live on the same floor, has moved to the Bronx. Others have migrated to Florida. 
 ''The neighborhood was one way, and now you look and you don't know anybody,'' Ms. Ramos said. ''Everybody's gone.''
 A new set of census-based numbers, prepared by the Center for Latin American, Caribbean and Latino Studies at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, illustrates the neighborhood's gradual change, while offering signs that the Dominican presence remains strong. 
 From 1990 to 2000, the Dominican population in Washington Heights and Inwood soared, from about 88,000 to nearly 117,000. But in the following five years their numbers dropped slightly, to fewer than 113,000. During those same five years, the total number of Latinos in the area also fell, from about 165,000 to 155,000, while the number of non-Hispanic whites increased from fewer than 29,000 to more than 30,000.
 Laird Bergad, the center's director, described the decrease of Dominicans as statistically insignificant, possibly a reflection of a small drop in the area's overall population. Dominicans, in fact, increased as a percentage of the total population in Washington Heights and Inwood, from 43 percent in 1990 to 53 percent in 2005.
 What the census figures do clearly show, however, is a sharp decline in the number of foreign-born Dominicans in the area. In 1990, 89 percent of Dominicans in Washington Heights and Inwood between 15 and 44 years old had been born in the Dominican Republic. Ten years later, that figure was down to 78 percent. In 2005, it was 67 percent.
 ''This is unmistakable evidence that immigration has slowed,'' Professor Bergad said, pointing out that this trend casts a shadow on one of the most important roles of Washington Heights -- as Dominicans' main portal into New York. However, with the area buffeted by that shift and by the influx of wealthier residents and the migration of Dominicans to the Bronx and elsewhere, it is hard to surmise what the future face of Washington Heights will be.
 These trends come vividly to life in the experiences of Ms. Ramos. Nearly two years ago, she moved to the South Bronx with her boyfriend and her 8-year-old son. She would have preferred to stay in Washington Heights, but her new home, a two-bedroom brick town house at Boston Road and Third Avenue, cost only $416,000. Half a mile from the building where her mother still lives, a three-bedroom condo was recently on the market for $1 million. 
 Ms. Ramos likes her new home. The neighborhood is calm, and there's a bus stop just two blocks away. But she misses her old place in the Heights, especially the way it used to be. ''It's very, very quiet,'' she said of her old building now. ''People just pass by you and you don't even notice them because they keep to themselves.''Bilingual Karaoke
 Not everyone sees the changes in Washington Heights as a threat to its Dominican identity. 
 One person who is confident that the neighborhood will remain a Dominican stronghold for decades to come is Josephine Infante, executive director of the Hunts Point Economic Development Corporation in the Bronx. Although a growing number of Dominicans live in her borough, she notes that they are spread out, and that there is no concentration of Dominican stores, restaurants and hair salons.
 ''That's why everyone goes to Washington Heights,'' Ms. Infante said. ''There's an aroma. There's something there that's very special.''
 Politically speaking, too, Dominicans in the Bronx are barely visible. Even though the Dominican population, at 213,000, is not too distant from the Puerto Rican population of 300,000, the borough has no elected Dominican officials. 
 ''You have this kind of Puerto Rican political machine right now in the Bronx that's pretty formidable,'' said Angelo Falcon, president and founder of the National Institute for Latino Policy, a New York-based research and advocacy group. 
 But in the opinion of Adriano Espaillat, who has represented Washington Heights since he was elected the first Dominican member of the State Assembly in 1996, the Dominican political base in the neighborhood remains strong despite the exodus to the Bronx. In the 2005 Democratic primary, for instance, the turnout among registered Democrats in the average election district citywide was 15 percent; in Washington Heights it was roughly 24 percent.
 ''Our voting power in the Heights is very strong compared to some of the other emerging communities,'' Mr. Espaillat said.
 In income, however, Washington Heights looks very different from how it once looked. In 2005, the median household income for non-Hispanic whites in Washington Heights was $56,300. For Dominicans, it was just $32,800. In that same year, 35 percent of non-Hispanic white households earned $75,000 to $200,000, compared with just 12 percent of Dominican households. 
 ''The old question of class is still present,'' Professor Bergad said, ''and nothing highlights that better than this question of income distribution.'' 
 Perhaps surprisingly, these disparities do not appear to be stirring tensions between Dominicans and whites. The sidewalk menu at L'Fonda restaurant on Amsterdam Avenue, for example, which used to be entirely in Spanish, now lists some items in Spanish (''salcocho'') on one side and in English on the other side (''Dominican-style soup''). At Coogan's, a restaurant and bar on Broadway at 169th Street, Tuesday and Saturday nights feature bilingual karaoke.
 Coogan's, in fact, has become something of a bridge between the two sides. Owned by a pair of gregarious Irish-Americans, David Hunt and Peter Walsh, the bar is a gathering spot for politicians and even sponsors an annual race called the Salsa, Blues and Shamrocks 5K Run, which this year kicks off, rain or shine, at 9 this morning. Battling the Landlords
 But good will doesn't extend to every corner of the neighborhood, especially when most of its 200,000 residents are renters and relations between tenants and landlords are increasingly strained.
 Raysa Castillo, a lawyer who represents many Washington Heights tenants in housing court, says, as do many housing activists and community leaders, that some landlords make cosmetic improvements to their buildings to justify rent increases, then try to evict those unable to pay. The advocates also say some landlords falsely accuse tenants of violating leases, or drive out tenants by letting their apartments deteriorate. In response, Roberta Bernstein, president of the Small Property Owners of New York, an advocacy group, said that building owners who go to the trouble and expense of taking tenants to court often do so for legitimate reasons. ''If they're dragging tenants into court, it's because they're not paying rent,'' said Mrs. Bernstein, whose group includes a number of Washington Heights landlords. ''I won't deny that there's some bad owners, but there's also some bad tenants.''
 Nevertheless, Ms. Castillo finds the broad housing picture, typical of modern gentrification, to be disheartening. ''We are experiencing something totally different than what was experienced by the Greeks, Irish, Cubans and Puerto Ricans who were here,'' she said. ''The majority of our folks are not leaving because they're doing better. The majority are leaving because they cannot afford rent.''
 In 2004, for instance, more than 15,000 eviction notices were filed in housing court for tenants in Washington Heights and its northern and southern neighbors, Inwood and Hamilton Heights, said Mr. Espaillat, the assemblyman. The next year, he said, the number climbed to more than 19,000. 
 Ms. Castillo, who lives on Cabrini Boulevard at 187th Street, has seen such economic struggles firsthand. The buildings in the few blocks around her home were once full of blue-collar Dominicans, she said, but many of those neighbors have left in search of cheaper housing. As for the Dominican families who remain, she said she knew precisely who they are and where they live. 
 How could she know all those names and locations? Because she can count those who remain on one hand. Five.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BETS, HITS -- A friendly wager at Los Guarinos bodega, left, focuses on when the Dominicans' heyday will end. At a local bar, below, karaoke is now bilingual.
CO-OP FEVER -- Large real estate firms, which sometimes identify a portion of the neighborhood as Hudson Heights, above, hope to cash in on the local boom. An Off Broadway musical called ''In the Heights,'' below left, puts a theatrical spin on the area's gentrification. (Photos by above and above right, Liz O. Baylen for The New York Times)
(Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NEW SIGHTINGS -- Washington Heights is known as the 31st province of the Dominican Republic, but its streets and stores feature new, non-Latino faces.
SIDE BY SIDE -- Delis and beauty shops share the streets of Washington Heights with hip new bars, and traditional Latino fare shares menu space with more yuppie-friendly offerings. (Photo by Diane Bondareff/Associated Press, 2004)
(Photo by Liz O. Baylen for The New York Times)
(Photo by Liz O. Baylen for The New York Times)
(Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(Photo by Liz O. Baylen for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Mary Altaffer/Associated Press)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (87%); RETAILERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); REAL ESTATE (72%); BEER & ALE (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); POLITICS (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); IMMIGRATION (62%); JAZZ & BLUES (60%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Dominican-Americans

PERSON: Manny Fernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%) New York City; Washington Heights (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



73 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 7501 words

HEADLINE: HOW TO GROW A SUPER ATHLETE

BYLINE: By DANIEL COYLE. 
Daniel Coyle wrote about the endurance cyclist Jure Robic in the February 2006 issue of Play.

 BODY:
This story could begin in many places -- it's about beginnings, after all -- but I'd like to start with the recent evening when my 4-year-old daughter, Zoe, appeared before me wielding a yellow baseball bat and an important announcement: batting tees were for babies. From now on, she would hit real pitches, like the big kids. 
 By way of biography, I should mention that Zoe, the youngest of four, is considered one of the finest all-around mini-athletes in the history of our house. She's widely celebrated for her ability to throw balls really far, to hop on one foot across the whole front porch, and to run faster than a superfast airplane can fly. So as I walked (and she raced) down to the basement and located an inflatable purple ball, I fully expected Zoe to take to hitting like she'd taken to everything else.
But Zoe, it turned out, pretty much stunk. 
 Toss after toss, she missed. Five tosses. Then 10. I tried throwing the ball softer, harder, lower, higher. I got a different bat, offered advice and abundant encouragement, tried covertly to pitch the ball so it hit the bat. Nothing worked. Zoe whiffed with virtuosity and enthusiasm. Against my nobler instincts, I found myself, like the purple ball, getting a bit deflated. I felt as if I were receiving a grimly polite report suggesting that Zoe, despite her athletic promise, had regrettably tested negative for hand-eye coordination.
 A few days later, we did it again. This time Zoe started off missing, then hit a foul ball. Then two fair balls in a row. Then three. She was watching the ball now, timing it. As the saying goes, something had clicked. Zoe hit the last toss squarely, and the purple ball zipped past my ear and smacked the window with a resounding gong. We froze at the unexpected sound, enjoying the moment and the question echoing beneath. 
 What, exactly, just happened? 
 What is talent? It's a big question, and one way to approach it is to look at the places where talent seems to be located -- in other words, to sketch a map. In this case, the map would show the birthplaces of the 50 top men and women in a handful of professional sports, each sport marked by its own color. (Tennis and golf handily rank performance; for team sports, salaries will do.) The resulting image -- what could be called a talent map -- emerges looking like abstract art: vast empty regions interspersed with well-defined bursts of intense color, sort of like a Matisse painting. 
 Canada, for instance, is predictably cluttered with hockey players, but significant concentrations also pop up in Sweden, Russia and the Czech Republic. The United States accounts for many of the top players in women's golf, but South Korea has just as many. Baseball stars are generously sprinkled across the southern United States but the postage-stamp-size Dominican Republic isn't far behind. In women's tennis, we see a dispersal around Europe and the United States, then a dazzling, concentrated burst in Moscow.
 The pattern keeps repeating: general scatterings accompanied by a number of dense, unexpected crowdings. The pattern is obviously not random, nor can it be fully explained by gene pools or climate or geopolitics or Nike's global marketing budget. Rather, the pattern looks like algae starting to grow on an aquarium wall, telltale clumps that show something is quietly alive, communicating, blooming. It's as though microscopic spores have floated around the atmosphere in the jet stream and taken root in a handful of fertile places. 
 A quick analysis of this talent map reveals some splashy numbers: for instance, the average woman in South Korea is more than six times as likely to be a professional golfer as an American woman. But the interesting question is, what underlying dynamic makes these people so spectacularly unaverage in the first place? What force is causing those from certain far-off places to become, competitively speaking, superior? 
 In early December, I traveled to the heart of one of those breeding grounds, the Spartak Tennis Club in Moscow. Russia is the birthplace of a group of athletes who have affected the World Tennis Association rankings in the same way that zebra mussels have affected the Great Lakes -- which is to say, pretty much clogged them. The invasion happened swiftly: at the end of 2001, Russia had one woman (Elena Dementieva) in the W.T.A. Tour's top 30. By the start of 2007, Russian women accounted for fully half of the top 10 (Dementieva, Maria Sharapova, Svetlana Kuznetzova, Nadia Petrova and Dinara Safina) and 12 of the top 50. Not to mention 15-year-old Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, who was the International Tennis Federation's No. 1-ranked junior and who was joined in the top 500 by five countrywomen also named Anastasia.
 Spartak, usually preceded in the tennis press by the word ''famous'' or ''legendary,'' had produced three of the top six Russians (Dementieva, Safina and Anastasia Myskina), along with Anna Kournikova, now retired. Tournament pairings regularly became all-Spartak affairs, most memorably the 2004 French Open final, Myskina over Dementieva, the continuation of a rivalry the two began at age 7. To put Spartak's success in talent-map terms: this club, which has one indoor court, has achieved eight year-end top-20 women's rankings over the last three years. During that same period, the entire United States has achieved seven. 
 ''They're like the Russian Army,'' says Nick Bollettieri, the founder of the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Bradenton, Fla., and the former coach to Sharapova, Andre Agassi and other top-ranked players. ''They just keep on coming.''
 Getting to Spartak, however, takes more than a talent map; it's not located on any real maps. Fortunately, help arrived in the form of Elena Rybina, a chain-smoking, speed-talking translator who worked part-time for the Russian Tennis Federation and who possessed a fast-alternating combination of film noir toughness and childlike giddiness that I took as the quintessence of modern Russia. 
 ''I learned my English listening to music, like Elton John,'' she said. '' 'Crocodile Rocks'! I love it!'' 
 We rode the subway half an hour northeast to Sokolniki Park and started walking. And walking. Sokolniki is almost twice the size of Central Park, considerably less central and only vaguely parklike. It's basically a huge forest of birch and elm trees filled with a disconcertingly energetic population of stray dogs. We walked past an abandoned chess club, an abandoned amusement park, an abandoned factory and the smashed onion dome of what appeared to be an abandoned church. 
 ''It is very beautiful in summer,'' Rybina assured me as we passed a pond frosted with green scum. ''But Spartak, I must warn you, is not so nice.'' 
 ''What do you mean?''
 Rybina lighted a Davidoff cigarette and raised her eyebrow into a Gothic arch. ''Spartak is not exactly like a palace.'' 
 We turned a corner, followed a road for a few hundred yards and saw a loose assortment of peaked buildings and shotgun shacks that resembled a dilapidated ski village. Windows were dim cataracts of warped plastic, paint was scabbed and peeling and the buildings were frescoed in a rich coat of grime. A glaze of ice coated the club's 15 outdoor clay courts, as it did for six months of the year. A beat-up 18-wheeler lent the scene a postnuclear, ''Mad Max'' vibe. The only bright color came from the rainbow sheen of diesel fuel in the puddles. 
 Rybina shrugged indifferently and lighted another Davidoff. We walked past the inexplicably manned guard post, past an A-frame that appeared to be a storehouse for scrap metal and toward a larger structure that resembled a greenhouse. We ducked through a low door and onto the court. The surface was worn down in frequently trodden spots, like cathedral steps. Two wooden sticks nudged the sagging net futilely toward regulation height. The fluorescent lights buzzed. ''We are lucky,'' Rybina whispered. ''The heat is working.'' When it doesn't, the kids play in their coats.1 
 The class, called the Little Group, had already arrived. They wore heavy coats and toted their tennis rackets in backpacks, sports duffels and plastic grocery bags. At first glance, they looked like a standard-issue assortment of 5- to 7-year-olds: there was Denis, the handsome blond in the blue turtleneck; Alexandra, the lanky towhead in the green T-shirt; Gunda, the smiley ponytailed girl in the silver shoes; and Vova, the revved-up boy with the Asiatic eyes who was the class's only 4-year-old. There were 12 students in all. They had been coming to Spartak three times a week since September; by now they'd been on the court perhaps 40 times. As the lesson began, a few of them made their final preparations, reaching into their bags for what appeared to be their good luck charms: a tidy gallery of stuffed dinosaurs, bunnies and pandas formed on the wall behind the base line. 
 The coach, 77-year-old Larisa Preobrazhenskaya (pronounced pray-oh-brah-ZHEN-skya), stood at the sideline, watching. She wore a red-and-white tracksuit and a knowing, amused expression. Preobrazhenskaya was Spartak's most renowned youth coach, but she wore her authority lightly, radiating a grandmotherly twinkle behind hooded eyes. She'd been quite a player in her day, the 1955 Soviet singles champion. She still looked athletic, sauntering around the court with a John Wayne limp caused by a sore hip. The parents huddled by the door, watchful and silent.
 The students formed a circle on one side of the net and started to stretch. I watched, scoping for telltale signs of uberkinder superiority, but saw nothing of the sort. The Little Group proceeded to hustle energetically through a 15-minute set of calisthenics worthy of Jack LaLanne: jumping jacks, hops, crab walking, bear walking, skipping, sidestepping, zigzagging through a line of orange cones. I was half expecting them to pull out medicine balls, when they actually did pull out medicine balls, passing them back and forth earnestly like so many extras in a Rocky movie.
 ''All the motions,'' Preobrazhenskaya would tell me. ''It is important to do everything, every practice.'' 
 The Little Group paired off with rackets and began imitatsiya -- rallying with an imaginary ball. They bounced lightly from foot to foot, they turned, they swung, the invisible balls flew. Preobrazhenskaya roamed the court like a garage mechanic tuning an oversize engine: realigning a piston here, tightening a flywheel there. Several times, she grasped their small arms and piloted their bodies through the stroke. Thus the lesson began, and with it the unspoken implication: the great, rusty Spartak machine was coming to life, carrying its cargo of mini-geniuses another step closer toward inevitable glory. 
 As I pictured the scale of the David and Goliath phenomenon this unlikely scene embodied, the question arose: how does Spartak do it? 
 Explanations were not in short supply. I'd heard plenty from American tennis coaches, a nicely bulleted list that included a Slavic gene pool that produces a seemingly inexhaustible supply of tall, fast, strong kids; the economic and cultural gateway that opened with the 1991 collapse of the Communist government; the former Russian president Boris Yeltsin's enthusiastic (if at times klutzy) love for the sport; and the potent catnip effect of Kournikova, the former top 10 player who, though she never won a singles tournament, provided an escape-hungry generation of girls (and, more important, their parents) with vivid proof that tennis success equaled glamour, fortune, fame. 
 The Russians, when I asked them, chimed in with explanations of their own, including the lifelong commitment of coaches like Preobrazhenskaya; the superior biomechanical techniques taught at the Moscow Institute of Physical Culture, where many of Russia's top coaches train; and (in a nostalgic burst of cold war trash talking) the intrinsic softness of the West. 
 Watching the Little Group play, I, too, felt a strong urge to bellow my share of theories: it must be the medicine balls! The discipline! The lack of Game Boys! I was particularly struck by the kids' obvious enjoyment of the lesson. One of the mothers told Preobrazhenskaya that her daughter, Gunda, had awakened early that day, unable to sleep. ''Today is my day with Larisa Dmitrievna!'' Gunda had said. ''It is today!'' 
 In sum, there are a lot of explanations, some better than others. For instance, is the Russian gene pool really that innately superior to that of Ukraine or Slovenia or Southern California? If Kournikova inspired so many Russians, then where were the German stars inspired by Steffi Graf? But ultimately the theories fall short because they don't explain the principles underpinning Spartak's success. Indeed, seeing the place up close made me wonder if there were any principles. Spartak radiates the glow of happenstance, the diamond in the trash heap. (This impression is apparently shared by the Russian Tennis Federation, which has been content to allow Spartak to remain with its single indoor court.)
 So even here, at the core of one of the globe's brightest talent blooms, the question of that talent's source remains enigmatically tangled, perhaps as much of a mystery to those who nurture these athletes as it is to the rest of us. It's enough to make you wish for a set of X-ray glasses that could reveal how these invisible forces of culture, history, genes, practice, coaching and belief work together to form that elemental material we call talent -- to wish that science could come up with a way to see talent as a substance as tangible as muscle and bone, and whose inner workings we could someday attempt to understand. 
 As it turns out, that's exactly what's happening. 
 I was peering inside an incubator at the Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. The incubator, about the size of a small refrigerator, held shiny wire racks on which sat several rows of petri dishes containing clear pink liquid. Inside the liquid were threadlike clumps of mouse neurons, which were wired to platinum electrodes and covered with a white, pearlescent substance called myelin. Within that myelin, according to new research, lies the seed of talent. 
 ''In neurology, myelin is being seen as an epiphany,'' Douglas Fields, the lab's director, had told me earlier. ''This is a new dimension that may help us understand a great deal about how the brain works, especially about how we gain skills.'' 
 The myelin in question didn't look particularly epiphanic, which is understandable since it would normally be employed by mice for sniffing out food or navigating a maze. Neurologists theorize, however, that this humble-looking material is the common link between the Spartak kids, the Dominican baseball players and all the other blooms on the talent map -- a link all the more interesting for the fact that few outside this branch of neurology currently know much about myelin. In fact, as Fields pointed out, if indirectly, the talent map wasn't technically the most accurate name for my hypothetical landscape. It should be called the myelin map. 
 ''I would predict that South Korean women golfers have more myelin, on average, than players from other countries,'' Fields said. ''They've got more in the right parts of the brain and for the right muscle groups, and that's what allows them to optimize their circuitry. The same would be true for any group like that.'' 
 ''Tiger Woods?'' I asked.
 ''Definitely Tiger Woods,'' he said. ''That guy's got a lot of myelin.'' 
 Fields, 53, is a sinewy man with a broad smile and a jaunty gait. A former biological oceanographer who studied shark nervous systems, he now runs a six-person, seven-room lab outfitted with hissing canisters, buzzing electrical boxes and tight bundles of wires and hoses. The place has the feel of a tidy, efficient ship. In addition, Fields has the sea captain's habit of making dramatic moments sound matter-of-fact. The more exciting something is, the more mundane he makes it sound. As he was telling me about the six-day climb of Yosemite's 3,000-foot El Capitan he made two summers back, I asked what it felt like to sleep while hanging from a rope thousands of feet above the ground. ''It's actually not that different,'' he said, his expression so unchanging that he might have been discussing a trip to the grocery store. ''You adapt.'' 
 Fields reached into the incubator, extracted one of the pink petri dishes and slid it beneath a microscope. ''Have a peek,'' he said quietly. 
 I leaned in and saw a tangled bunch of spaghetti-like threads, which Fields informed me were nerve fibers. The myelin was harder to see, a faintly undulating fringe on the edge of the neurons. I blinked, refocused, struggled to imagine how this stuff might help my golf game. 
 Fields proceeded to explain that myelin is a sausage-shaped layer of dense fat that wraps around the nerve fibers -- and that its seeming dullness is, in fact, exactly the point. Myelin works the same way that rubber insulation works on a wire, keeping the signal strong by preventing electrical impulses from leaking out. This myelin sheath is, basically, electrical tape, which is one reason that myelin, along with its associated cells, was classified as glia (Greek for ''glue''). Its very inertness is why the first brain researchers named their new science after the neuron instead of its insulation. They were correct to do so: neurons can indeed explain almost every class of mental phenomenon--memory, emotion, muscle control, sensory perception and so on. But there's one question neurons can't explain: why does it take so long to learn complex skills? 
 ''Everything neurons do, they do pretty quickly; it happens with the flick of a switch,'' Fields said. ''But flicking switches is not how we learn a lot of things. Getting good at piano or chess or baseball takes a lot of time, and that's what myelin is good at.''
 To the surprise of many neurologists, it turns out this electrical tape is quietly interacting with the neurons. Through a mechanism that Fields and his research team described in a 2006 paper in the journal Neuron, the little sausages of myelin get thicker when the nerve is repeatedly stimulated. The thicker the myelin gets, the better it insulates and the faster and more accurately the signals travel. As Fields puts it, ''The signals have to travel at the right speed, arrive at the right time, and myelination is the brain's way of controlling that speed.'' 2
 It adds up to a two-part dynamic that is elegant enough to please Darwin himself: myelin controls the impulse speed, and impulse speed is crucial. The better we can control it, the better we can control the timing of our thoughts and movements, whether we're running, reading, singing or, perhaps more to the point, hitting a wicked topspin backhand. 
 Back at Spartak, the Little Group lined up outside the service box, rackets at the ready. Preobrazhenskaya stood at the net, a shopping cart of balls at her hip. She waited for silence, then started: forehand, backhand, back to the end of the line. One by one, the kids took their swings -- to my eye, pretty nice-looking swings. But not to hers. Preobrazhenskaya frequently stopped them, had them do it over. More follow-through. More turn. Watch. Feel. 
 Pravil'no, she said. Correct. 
 Molodets. Good job.
 If Preobrazhenskaya's approach were boiled down to one word (and it frequently was), that word would be tekhnika -- technique. This is enforced by iron decree: none of her students are permitted to play in a tournament for the first three years of study. It's a notion that I don't imagine would fly with American parents, but none of the Russian parents questioned it for a second. ''Technique is everything,'' Preobrazhenskaya told me later, smacking a table with Khrushchev-like emphasis, causing me to jump and reconsider my twinkly-grandma impression of her. ''If you begin playing without technique, it is big mistake. Big, big mistake!''
 I thought of something Dr. Fields had said: ''You have to understand that every skill exists as a circuit, and that circuit has to be formed and optimized.'' To put it in Spartak terms, myelin is a slave to tekhnika -- and so, in turn, was the Little Group. Preobrazhenskaya didn't instruct them on tactics or positioning or offer any psychological tips; rather, every gesture and word was funneled to teaching the elemental task of hitting the ball clean and hard. Which they did, one by one. A few of the kids had located that magical-seeming burst of leverage that makes the ball explode off the strings with a distinctive thwock. 
 ''What do good athletes do when they train?'' George Bartzokis, a professor of neurology at U.C.L.A., had told me. ''They send precise impulses along wires that give the signal to myelinate that wire. They end up, after all the training, with a super-duper wire -- lots of bandwidth, high-speed T-1 line. That's what makes them different from the rest of us.'' 3
 As the Little Group continued its lesson, I found myself picturing myelin. I'd seen a highly magnified image on one of Fields's computer screens, and it looked like a deep-sea photograph: bright colors against a field of black. The oligodendrocytes -- oligos, in lab lingo, are the cells that form the myelin -- resembled glowing green squids, their tentacles reaching toward a set of slender nerve fibers. Once they seize hold, each tentacle begins to curl and extend, as the oligo squeezes the cytoplasm out of itself until only a cellophane-like sheet of membrane remains. That membrane proceeds to wrap over the nerve fiber with machinelike precision, spiraling down to create the distinctive sausage shape, tightening itself over the fiber like a threaded nut. 
 ''It's one of the most intricate and exquisite cell-cell interactions there is,'' Fields said. ''And it's slow. Each one of these wraps can go around a nerve fiber 40 or 50 times, and that can take days or weeks. Imagine doing that to an entire neuron, then an entire circuit with thousands of nerves.'' 
 So each time Alexandra or Denis or Gunda swings the racket properly -- or, for that matter, each time we practice a chip shot or a guitar chord or a chess opening -- those tiny green tentacles sense it and reach toward the thousands of related nerve fibers. They grasp, they squish, they make another wrap, thickening the sheath. They build a little more insulation along the wire, which adds a bit more bandwidth and precision to the circuit, which translates into an infinitesimal bit more skill and speed. Myelin is both practice and mastery, cause and effect. As Bartzokis had said: ''Myelin is our Achilles strength, and it's our Achilles' heel. It's what makes us human.'' 4 
 All this myelin talk, combined with jet lag, left me feeling slightly changed. I wandered Moscow as if I were seeing the world through myelin-colored glasses. Emerald-green squids and snowy white sausages were everywhere I looked. A TV highlight of a Ronaldinho goal? Pure myelin! That violinist playing Mozart in the subway? What incredible oligodendrocytes that guy must have! A poster for the 2008 Olympics? An international myelin cultivation contest! My repeated ability to get lost within a few blocks of my hotel? Myelin again! (Rather, my lack of it.)
 It also left me thinking about the clusters on the talent map. Specifically, wondering whether these places quietly possess myelin-accelerating factors: i.e., forces and conditions that promote what Fields would call ''circuit optimization.'' Might those factors help explain the success of these superior athletes? 
 The rise of the South Korean golfers, who won almost one-third of the events last year on the Ladies Professional Golf Association Tour, has usually been explained by citing two factors: the country's formidably driven parents, and the rock-star status of Se Ri Pak, who has won 23 tournaments and is one of the nation's biggest sports celebrities. Yet the logic of this formula has always been confounded by a puzzling fact: South Korea happens to be a nation where it is singularly difficult for a young person to play golf. There are only 200 golf courses in the entire country, compared with 17,000 in the United States. 
 Viewed through the prism of myelin, however, the situation makes more sense. The lack of public courses sends golf-hungry parents and kids to South Korea's abundant driving ranges, which are Elysian fields of myelination compared to the relative randomness of course play. Were South Korea to increase access to courses, it could be argued, the country might wind up producing fewer top golfers. 
 Then there's the Dominican Republic, which has historically produced more Major League Baseball players than any other country outside the United States. Conventional wisdom holds that this remarkable record arises from the fruitful collision of a baseball-mad culture and grinding poverty. The equation is undeniably true, but it's also true of several nearby countries that don't achieve a fraction of the Dominican Republic's success. 
 There is one way, however, in which the Dominican Republic is historically unique. It's the first place where Major League Baseball teams built training academies -- two dozen of them, starting in the mid-1970s. While academies provide players with obvious advantages like good nutrition and housing, not to mention regular exposure to scouts, they also provide a daily structure of drills and practices that, like the South Korean driving ranges, would presumably be a ripe environment for building myelin. 5
 The most impressive myelin collection I encountered during my Moscow trip belonged to a woman encased in a sheepskin coat, fur-trimmed boots and a fuzzy white hat. Elena Dementieva, 25, represented the acme of the Spartak product. She stood 5-foot-11, weighed 141 pounds and emanated a vibration of such unearthly physical perfection that crowds parted as she moved down the sidewalk. Seeing Dementieva walk into the Russian Army sports club, where she trains between tournaments, I flashed to an image of the Spartak kids and felt a brief parental pang of disbelief. Such a transformation seemed impossible.6
 Sitting down on a set of courtside bleachers (level gaze, warm laugh, no hint of divahood), Dementieva told her story. Surprisingly, she had been rejected by several other clubs as too slow before landing at Spartak. She spoke fondly, if a little vaguely, of her days at the club: dodging stray dogs, washing dirty tennis balls in the sink, doing homework on the long subway ride. Her first instructor was the renowned Rausa Islanova (the mother of Dinara Safina and of the men's 2000 United States Open winner, Marat Safin), who was known for her strictness and her elimination system in which students competed for a constantly shrinking number of slots. Dementieva's group started with 25 students; within a year it was down to 7. Of those 7 kids, 4 became world-class players (Myskina, Kournikova and Safin were the other 3). 
 ''Spartak was good for me, I think,'' Dementieva said, squinting as if she were peering into her hazy past. ''I always had a feeling that I was going forward, getting better technique.'' 
 When Dementieva took the court to practice, she began with a set of those Jack LaLanne-style warm-ups -- sidesteps, jumping jacks, high steps. She looked as if she were still a member of the Little Group, so much so that, watching from the bleachers, I was momentarily unsure whether it was her or some beginner. Dementieva did imitatsiya; she practiced each stroke in slow motion. Then, when her male sparring partner showed up, she proceeded to hit the ball so hard, accurately and consistently that it seemed she was playing a sport I'd never seen before. Again and again, her body rose to the ball in a twist of ballistic force, the power betrayed only by the snakelike rise of her thick blond braid. The ball hissed. 
 Trying to wrap my head around the metamorphic process through which a too-slow kid could become . . . her, well, it left me utterly at a loss, able only to fumble for such useful scientific terms as ''magic'' and ''miracle.'' 
 Fortunately, there are more rational people to consult, and perhaps the most rational is K. Anders Ericsson, who has devoted much of his life to studying phenomena like Dementieva and Spartak. Ericsson, a native of Sweden and a professor of psychology at Florida State University, is co-editor of ''The Cambridge Handbook of Expertise and Expert Performance,'' published in 2006. If talented people can be thought of as a singular species, then Ericsson is its John J. Audubon, and the handbook is his painstakingly annotated field guide.
 The handbook runs to 901 pages, so, in the interest of time, allow me to sum up. Every talent, according to Ericsson, is the result of a single process: deliberate practice, which he defines as ''individuals engaging in a practice activity (typically designed by teachers) with full concentration on improving some aspect of their performance.'' In a moment of towering simplification, ''The Handbook'' distills its lesson to a formula known as the Power Law of Learning: T = a P-b . (Don't ask.) A slightly more useful translation: Deliberate practice means working on technique, seeking constant critical feedback and focusing ruthlessly on improving weaknesses. 
 ''It feels like you're constantly stretching yourself into an uncomfortable area beyond what you can quite do,'' Ericsson told me. It's hard to sustain deliberate practice for long periods of time, which may help explain why players like Jimmy Connors succeeded with seemingly paltry amounts of practice while their competitors were hitting thousands of balls each day. As the tennis commentator Mary Carillo told me, ''He barely practiced an hour a day, but it was the most intense hour of your life.''
 Ericsson also discusses the Ten-Year Rule, an intriguing finding dating to 1899, which shows that even the most talented individual requires a decade of committed practice before reaching world-class level. (Even a prodigy like the chess player Bobby Fischer put in nine hard years before achieving his grandmaster status at age 16.) While this rule is often used to backdate the ideal start of training (in tennis, girls peak physically at around 17, so they ought to start by 7; boys peak later, so 9 is O.K.), the Ten-Year Rule has more universal implications. Namely, it implies that all skills are built using the same fundamental mechanism, and that the mechanism makes physiological demands from which no one is exempt.
 This is not to suggest that the only difference between an average Joe and Michael Jordan is a few thousand hours of deliberate practice. Almost all of the scientists I spoke with agreed that inheritance is a huge factor in potential, if perhaps not in quite the way we've commonly assumed. (Perhaps, as George Bartzokis suggests, Jordan's greatest natural gift was his powerful oligodendrocytes.) 
 All in all, Ericsson's theory sounds logical and appealing, but part of me rises up in rebellion. What about geniuses? What about young Mozart's famous ability to transcribe entire scores on a single hearing? What about Shakespeare or Leonardo or those 14-year-old Ph.D. candidates? What about savants, who walk up to the piano or a Rubik's cube and are magically brilliant? 
 T = a P-b would be the reply. In his 1999 book, ''Genius Explained,'' Michael Howe of the University of Exeter speculates that Mozart studied some 3,500 hours of music with his instructor father by his sixth birthday, a number that places his musical memory into the realm of impressive but obtainable party tricks. Savants, it is pointed out, excel within narrow domains that feature clear, logical rules (classical piano, math, occasionally art -- as opposed to, say, jazz clarinet). Furthermore, savants typically possess prior exposure to those domains, such as listening to music around the home. Savants' true expertise, the research suggests, is in their ability to practice obsessively, even when it doesn't look as if they're practicing. As Ericsson succinctly put it, ''There's no cell type that geniuses have that the rest of us don't.'' 
 So let's return to the initial question: how does Spartak do it? If the new science is right and myelination is to talent as photosynthesis is to plant growth, then Spartak makes it abundantly clear that photosynthesis alone is never enough; you also need soil, water, air, sunlight, luck. The question becomes, which variables are helping Spartak's myelin grow to such riotous abundance? Four factors stand above the rest: 
 1. Driven Parents. The hunger and ambition of Russian parents is uniquely strong, particularly when one considers how hard life is in Russia right now and also that the patron saint of Russian tennis parents is the ex-Siberian oil-field worker Yuri Sharapov, who came to America with less than $1,000 and his 7-year-old daughter, Maria, who now earns an estimated $30 million a year in endorsements. On the other hand, while they are intense, Russian parents aren't all that different a group from the parents in Serbia, the Czech Republic or Mission Viejo, Calif. 
 2. Early Starts. The kids here start young and specialize early. They are tennis players, and not much else competes for their attention (only a handful owned video games, according to my informal poll), and they also benefit from a Russian culture that's built to select athletes and shield them from academic pressures. Incidentally, there were indeed elite athletic genes floating around at Spartak: Alexandra's parents were famous figure skaters, and another kid was Myskina's cousin. So good genes probably play a role, or (just as likely, to my mind) there's a beneficial effect to growing up in an environment of working athletes. 
 3. Powerful, Consistent Coaches. Most tennis coaches I saw were treated with a respect reserved for university professors. The tennis clubs I visited were patrolled by a squad of Brezhnev lookalikes who offered advice that seemed hewed from stone. Their institutional specialty is biomechanics, but the point is perhaps not so much in the details of that coaching, but rather in the passion, rigor and uniformity with which that coaching is delivered. This, incidentally, is the opposite of the entrepreneurial system in which many American tennis coaches operate, as they often compete with one another, relying on their ability to sell their services to sometimes anxious parents. American coaches have to be unique to survive; Russian coaches are mostly the same. 
 4. Cultural Toughness. As poets have pointed out, the intrinsic hardiness of the Russian woman is legendary. Historically, this might have something to do with the hardships of life under Communism and the loss of 11 million soldiers in World War II. Whatever the cause, the immediate effect is a tangible mental toughness and a work ethic second to none. After all, at Spartak, they don't speak of ''playing'' tennis. The verb they like to use is borot'sya -- to struggle. 
 If I gave in to the uncontrollable Ericssonian urge to put Spartak's success into a formula, it would read something like: 
 Intense Parents + Young Kids + Rigorous Technique + Toughness = Talent
 Alongside it, we could write another equation: 
 Deliberate Practice + Time = Myelin = Talent
 But in the end, as I look around the court, it can't come down to a formula because formulas are rational, and whatever Spartak is, it isn't entirely rational. It's a bunch of kids in a dumpy club who are burning to be here, for whom every swing is meaningful, who wake up in the morning and say, ''Today is my day with Larisa Dmitrievna!'' It's deeply and purposefully irrational, because it's built on a love of sport and country that can't be explained but holds everything together anyway. Spartak is not science; what happens here is not analogous to what happens in a factory or a laboratory. It's closer to what happens in a garden, a forgotten, rundown garden that somehow produces marvelous tomatoes, summer after summer.7 
 Thwock . . . thwock . . . thwock . . . thwock.
 The Little Group was smacking it now, the balls zipping over the net and ricocheting off the far wall. Preobrazhenskaya, the gardener, watched with a smile, occasionally correcting a backswing or a grip, nudging the kids on with a murmur of praise and instruction: ''Clever boy.'' ''Good girl.'' ''No.'' ''Correct.'' ''Not there.'' ''That's it.'' 
 On my last day at Spartak, I met one more player. Her name was Kseniya; she was 5, and she'd come for a tryout. Her parents, an upscale pair, ducked through the low door and asked Larisa Dmitrievna if she might have a moment. Kseniya had black pigtails held in place with pink ribbons. She wore new silver tennis shoes. She walked solemnly, one step behind her parents, carrying a tiny pink racket. Something in the precision of her walk, in her air of self-possession, reminded me of my daughter Zoe. 
 Preobrazhenskaya put her arm on Kseniya's shoulder and walked her to the corner of the court, out of the parents' earshot. The girl looked up into the coach's face. ''She has good eyes,'' Preobrazhenskaya said later. 
 Preobrazhenskaya rotated Kseniya's arms in a wide circle, feeling for looseness in her muscles, which she regarded as a good sign. Preobrazhenskaya then showed Kseniya a new tennis ball, and told her what was about to happen. Kseniya listened closely, and nodded. Then the coach tossed the ball lightly, and Kseniya, her small body coming alive at once, ran to catch it. .
 If I gave in to the uncontrollable Ericssonian urge to put Spartak's success into a formula, it would read something like: 
 Intense Parents + Young Kids + Rigorous Technique + Toughness = Talent
 Alongside it, we could write another equation: 
 Deliberate Practice + Time = Myelin = Talent
 But in the end, as I look around the court, it can't come down to a formula because formulas are rational, and whatever Spartak is, it isn't entirely rational. It's a bunch of kids in a dumpy club who are burning to be here, for whom every swing is meaningful, who wake up in the morning and say, ''Today is my day with Larisa Dmitrievna!'' It's deeply and purposefully irrational, because it's built on a love of sport and country that can't be explained but holds everything together anyway. Spartak is not science; what happens here is not analogous to what happens in a factory or a laboratory. It's closer to what happens in a garden, a forgotten, rundown garden that somehow produces marvelous tomatoes, summer after summer.7 
 Thwock . . . thwock . . . thwock . . . thwock.
 The Little Group was smacking it now, the balls zipping over the net and ricocheting off the far wall. Preobrazhenskaya, the gardener, watched with a smile, occasionally correcting a backswing or a grip, nudging the kids on with a murmur of praise and instruction: ''Clever boy.'' ''Good girl.'' ''No.'' ''Correct.'' ''Not there.'' ''That's it.'' 
 On my last day at Spartak, I met one more player. Her name was Kseniya; she was 5, and she'd come for a tryout. Her parents, an upscale pair, ducked through the low door and asked Larisa Dmitrievna if she might have a moment. Kseniya had black pigtails held in place with pink ribbons. She wore new silver tennis shoes. She walked solemnly, one step behind her parents, carrying a tiny pink racket. Something in the precision of her walk, in her air of self-possession, reminded me of my daughter Zoe. 
 Preobrazhenskaya put her arm on Kseniya's shoulder and walked her to the corner of the court, out of the parents' earshot. The girl looked up into the coach's face. ''She has good eyes,'' Preobrazhenskaya said later. 
 Preobrazhenskaya rotated Kseniya's arms in a wide circle, feeling for looseness in her muscles, which she regarded as a good sign. Preobrazhenskaya then showed Kseniya a new tennis ball, and told her what was about to happen. Kseniya listened closely, and nodded. Then the coach tossed the ball lightly, and Kseniya, her small body coming alive at once, ran to catch it. 1 In September, as part of an ongoing effort to revive American tennis, the United States Tennis Association plans to centralize its player development program at the Evert Tennis Academy in Boca Raton, Fla., a new complex that will feature 23 courts (14 lighted), dormitories, a state-of-theart video lounge and a staff of 30, including a mental-conditioning coach. Tuition with room and board will cost as much as $42,000 a year. By comparison, the Russian Tennis Federation's total youth-development budget is estimated to be between $300,000 and $400,000.2 Timing is vital because neurons are binary: either they fire or they don't -- no gray areas. Their firing depends solely on whether the incoming impulse is strong enough to exceed the neuron's threshold of activation. To explain the implications of this effect, Fields had me imagine a skill circuit in which two neurons need to combine their impulses to make a third, high-threshold neuron fire -- for, say, a golf swing. In order to combine properly, those two incoming impulses must arrive at nearly exactly the same time -- sort of like two people running at a heavy door to push it open. The time window turns out to be about four milliseconds, or roughly the time it takes a bee to flap its wings once. If the first two signals arrive more than four milliseconds apart, the door stays shut, the crucial third neuron doesn't fire and the golf ball soars into the rough (or, as I was reflexively picturing, Zoe swings and misses the purple ball). ''Your brain has so many connections and possibilities that your genes can't code the neurons to time things so precisely,'' Fields said. ''But you can build myelin to do it.''3 These studies shine a new light on the neuro-anatomist Marian C. Diamond's 1985 finding that the left, inferior parietal lobe of Albert Einstein's brain, though it had a typical number of neurons, had significantly more glial cells than her other samples, a study that neurologists at the time considered so meaningless as to be nearly comical but that now seems to make sense, bandwidth-wise.4 The list of myelin-related pathologies is long and, Bartzokis believes, includes multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's as well as a wider range of conditions, like schizophrenia, dyslexia, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and autism, all of which can be understood as disorders of impulse timing.5 Venezuela is a more recent example of this phenomenon. In 1989, the Houston Astros opened the first of what are now nine major-league academies there, and a few years later, the number of Venezuelans in the big leagues started to rise. Since 1995, 125 Venezuelans have broken into Major League Baseball, 51 more than had appeared in all the years up to that point.6 In children, myelin arrives in a series of waves, some of them determined by biological code, some of them dependent on activity. These waves last into young adulthood. Until this time, the brain is extraordinarily receptive to learning new skills. Though adults retain the ability to myelinate throughout life (thankfully, 5 percent of our oligos remain immature, ready to answer the call), anyone who has tried to learn a language or musical instrument late in life can testify that it costs a lot more time and sweat to build the requisite circuitry. The effortlessness is the first thing to go.7 Replicating the Spartak system in the United States (or, for that matter, installing Dominican-style baseball academies or forcing young golfers to practice only at driving ranges) would likely not create a sudden wellspring of stars. The reasons that the United States is losing ground on the talent map have less to do with training mechanisms and more to do with bigger factors: a highly distractive youth culture, a focus on the glamour of winning rather than on the brickwork of building technique and a sporting environment that is gentler than those found in many of the world's harder corners.
 ''You can't keep breast-feeding them all the time,'' Robert Lansdorp, a tennis coach in Los Angeles, told me. ''You've got to make them an independent thinker.'' Lansdorp, who is in his 60s, has coached Sharapova, along with the former No. 1-ranked players Pete Sampras, Tracy Austin and Lindsay Davenport, all three of whom grew up in the same area and played at the same run-of-the-mill tennis clubs near Los Angeles. ''You don't need a fancy academy,'' he said. ''You need fundamentals and discipline, and in this country nobody gives a damn about fundamentals and discipline.'' Lansdorp also mentioned that he'd visited Spartak last year to teach a clinic. ''It was a pretty different place,'' he said. ''But that Larisa, she sure knows her stuff.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''TECHNIQUE IS EVERYTHING'' -- Larisa Preobrazhenskaya (far left) won't let her students compete until they've had three years of training
6-year-old Gunda Arzhba myelinates her backhand with a Spartak coach.
 THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT -- A combination of cultural toughness and focused practice makes places like Spartak fertile ground for producing world-class athletes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OLAF BLECKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pgs. 36,37,38,39,41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); GOLF (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); PAINTING (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%) Athletics and Sports; Children and Youth

PERSON: Daniel Coyle

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (65%); SWEDEN (65%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



74 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 4617 words

HEADLINE: RYAN HOWARD, NO ASTERISK

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a frequent contributor to Play.

 BODY:
What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in slow motion, and you start your swing with a short stride, a subtle shift of weight and a powerful forward thrust of the hips. Your hands follow and then, finally, the barrel of the bat comes whipping through the hitting zone and -- crack! -- connects with the ball, sending it on a majestic arc into the upper deck.
 Just once, right? To be that most American of sports icons: the Slugger. 
Now, here is Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia Phillies on Sept. 3, 2006. He is a baby in baseball years, still in his first full big-league season, but a man-child at the plate: 6-foot-4, 250-plus pounds and big all over. He has biceps that it would take two large hands to fully encircle, thick-muscled forearms and -- more noticeable in the locker room than on the field, where he wears a baggy uniform top -- a surprisingly ample midsection. Howard is Ruthian, only bigger. Even his round, expressive face -- quick to break into a smile, more open and inviting than the typical impassive countenance of the big-time pro athlete -- seems extra large.
 He takes his place in the left batter's box at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, a hitter's paradise -- not that the dimensions of a ballpark matter much to him. Legend has it that Howard hit his first 400-foot home run at age 12, a blast that rocketed over an outfield fence and smacked against the side of a Red Lobster restaurant.
 On this Sunday afternoon, the opposing pitcher is Tim Hudson of the Atlanta Braves, a veteran with stuff that is more clever than overpowering. Hudson's pitches have what is called late movement -- they sink, dart and sail, leaving hitters waving at air or topping harmless ground balls.
 Howard, batting cleanup, leads off the bottom of the second inning. He has, at this point, 49 home runs, an astonishing number for early September. He has already surpassed the team record for home runs in a season, held by Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt, and he is two away from Ralph Kiner's mark for second-year players, set in 1947. (Howard became a full-time big leaguer in July 2005.)
 The act of hitting a baseball is an energy transfer: from the body to the bat to the ball. Just before Hudson rocks into his wind-up, Howard, a lefty, uses his right hand to point his 34-ounce bat at a 45-degree angle directly over the pitcher's head. This is a timing device, although, as Howard has become one of the game's most prodigious home-run hitters, it can easily be taken as a boast. Follow the angle of the bat and it suggests a trajectory straight out over the center-field fence.
 He brings the bat back as Hudson readies, grips it with both hands and cocks his left (back) elbow. His focus now is on ''staying quiet,'' as he puts it -- being still. He wants no energy to leak out until it can be put to its proper use. His knees are flexed, his weight set back in his stance. Only his wrists are moving, just slightly, causing the top of the bat to wave like a flag in a limp breeze.
 The first pitch is a slider, bearing in on Howard's shoe tops. He explodes out of his stance and brings the barrel of the bat down solidly on the ball -- sending a towering drive over the right-center-field wall. Home run No. 50.
 Hudson stands at the back of the mound and looks toward the outfield long after the ball has cleared the wall. He stares at the replay on the scoreboard, as if thinking to himself, He hit that pitch where?
 Second at-bat: Hudson throws his first pitch near Howard's head, which he casually avoids by leaning back. ''No big deal,'' Howard tells me later. ''You kind of have to expect that.'' After a foul ball, he sends Hudson's third offering -- a fat pitch about belt high -- deep over the center-field wall, in the same general direction as the first one, only quite a bit farther. Home run No. 51.
 Third at-bat: With the count at one ball and two strikes Hudson throws a sinker that veers low and away, a pitch that is meant to tempt Howard to swing at something he can't reach -- or, if he does, can't hit solidly. Howard extends his massive arms and hits a line drive to left field, which clears the wall nearly as quickly as a spectator can locate it with his eyes. Home run No. 52.
 Three at-bats. Three home runs.
 Out on the mound, Hudson looks more bemused than angry. He had put that last pitch right where he intended. ''You kind of scratch your head after that,'' he tells reporters gathered at his locker after the game. ''What the hell are you going to do next?''
 Ryan Howard felt a surge of pleasure when he connected on those three swings. He heard the crowd's roar, knew for sure that the second two balls would clear the outfield walls. (The first just cleared the fence, and Howard had taken off hard toward first base out of the batter's box.) But there was a lack of actual physical sensation, or at least one that is easily described -- that weird nothingness of hitting a ball, with force and perfect timing, right on the sweet spot of a baseball bat.
 It is an odd neurological loop: job well done, but you know it only because there's no unpleasant message to the contrary. ''You feel a lot more in your hands if the pitch gets in on you and busts you in the handle,'' Howard says. ''It stings. But when you catch it square, it doesn't seem like you feel it as much.''
 Last season, Howard had 58 home runs, a total exceeded by only five men in baseball history -- Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Roger Maris and Babe Ruth. Twenty-eight of Howard's home runs either tied the game or put the Phillies ahead, and he knocked in a major-league-leading 149 runs -- including 42 in August, the most r.b.i. by a player in a single month in 34 years. He was the National League player of the month in both August and September, and after the season, he was voted the league's Most Valuable Player.
 As every baseball fan knows, the game is awash in statistics, some more telling than others. One esoteric stat is particularly enlightening in Howard's case: his home-run-to-fly-ball ratio of 39.5 percent. What that means is that of every 10 fair balls he hits in the air, about 4 end up as home runs. The player with the next highest ratio last year, Travis Hafner of the Cleveland Indians, had a ratio of 30.2.
 There is a feast-or-famine aspect to Howard's hitting: he strikes out a lot -- 181 times last season, the second most in the majors -- so he doesn't put as many balls in play as others do in the same number of at-bats. But as his teammate Aaron Rowand says: ''When he hits it, he hits it. Ryan doesn't hit a lot of bloopers.''
 The majority of Howard's home runs went to left or center field, the mark of a hitter who is powerful enough not to have to pull balls to reach the seats, and several landed in places rarely reached by batted balls. Last April in Philadelphia, Howard hit a dead-center-field home run that was measured at 496 feet.
 It is impossible, of course, to think about power hitting these days without wondering about performance-enhancing drugs. Bonds, McGwire and Sosa all played in what is now commonly called baseball's Steroid Era, and suspicion has fallen on each of them. On the subject of sports and chemical enhancement, the first rule is never to assume guilt -- or innocence. Surprises lurk. But Howard, big from the womb, a lifelong slugger, is generally assumed around baseball to be clean. (Howard is subject to Major League Baseball's drug-testing policy, which calls for players to be tested for steroids, amphetamines and certain other substances once in spring training and at least one other time during the season. He was also tested in the minor leagues.)
 In mid-September, a ball hit by Howard at Minute Maid Park in Houston caromed off the glove of a 10-year-old fan in the left-field seats and fell back into the outfield. Television replays clearly showed that it should have been called a home run, but the third-base umpire ruled the ball in play. After the game, Astros first baseman Lance Berkman had an interesting reaction, telling reporters, ''I hope it doesn't cost him the steroid-free home run record.''
 It didn't. Howard would have fallen short of Maris's 61 home runs, anyway -- mainly because he became so terrifying to opposing managers that they started walking him at every possible opportunity. He was second in the majors with 37 intentional walks, several of them issued in situations that rarely call for such a move.
 For example, in a late-September game, Frank Robinson, then managing the Washington Nationals, twice ordered Howard to be walked in extra innings -- once with the bases empty and two outs, another time with a runner on first who then moved into scoring position as a potential game-winning run. After a game the night before, during which Robinson challenged Howard in a key spot, Robinson told me: ''Every hitter has vulnerabilities. No reason not to attack them.'' When I asked him the next night why he seemed to lose courage, he said: ''Didn't want to press my luck. Ryan is a very strong young man.''
 Physicists who have studied hitting toss around terms like ''bat speed,'' ''torque'' and ''rotational mechanics.'' It is fair to say that strength generally promotes bat speed and home-run power. Howard comes from a family of big people and, by appearance, is what used to be called ''country strong.''
 Howard and I met one day near his off-season home, in suburban St. Louis, amid a landscape of tract houses and what looked like an endless expanse of strip shopping centers and chain restaurants. He had just finished one of his three-hour, five-times-a-week workouts, which consist mostly of weight training. He had been dieting, too, eating more vegetables and fewer fried foods. 
 We took a seat at the restaurant he chose, a place called O'Charley's, which featured an oversize menu of American favorites. When his grilled chicken was put down in front of him, he looked displeased and immediately lifted it with his fork. ''I sure hope they put my mashed potatoes under there,'' he said. When he came upon a mound of them, he brightened up. He continued stabbing at a bowl of tortilla chips, loading them up with salsa. ''Do me a favor,'' he told me. ''Eat some of these. Help me out. I'm trying to be good.''
 Howard's power surge at the end of last season brought about something unprecedented in recent baseball history. By July, the Phillies had surrendered the season -- and sort of the next one, too. The general manager, Pat Gillick, had traded off important players -- the starting right fielder and third baseman, a starting pitcher, a key left-handed relief pitcher -- and told the team's fans not to expect the Phillies to be contenders until 2008. Such housecleaning happens every season in baseball: lesser teams build for the future by trading veterans for prospects.
 What doesn't happen is what the Phillies did next, which was to climb back into the playoff race, largely on the back of Howard, who in the season's second half hit .355 with 30 home runs and 78 r.b.i. By August, Gillick had reversed course and was acquiring veteran talent for the stretch run. (The Phillies were finally eliminated from the wild-card playoff spot on the last weekend of the season.)
 Howard, respectful of baseball custom, strives for modesty. Understatement is a much-admired quality in baseball. When I talked to him about the home-run-to-fly-ball ratio, he had no idea what his was (or that anyone even kept such a stat). But when I asked him to guess how many of his fly balls cleared the fences, his answer seemed like a true measure of his estimation of his own abilities. ''I don't know,'' he said. ''Six out of 10? Seven out of 10?''
 In some ways, Howard is the anti-Barry Bonds, who looms over the coming baseball season like an unwelcome guest at a dinner party. Bonds, an outfielder with the San Francisco Giants, is 22 home runs from surpassing Hank Aaron's record of 755. For a great many baseball fans, his grim pursuit will be a cause for dismay more than celebration. Even before the steroid allegations, Bonds was one of the game's sour personalities, unloved by fans outside his home city and often reviled by his own teammates.
 Howard, by contrast, is cordial with the press, well liked in the clubhouse and much more likely to offer fans a smile and an autograph than a scowl. He arrives early for games and can usually be found with his big frame folded into an easy chair or couch in front of a large TV, watching videos with teammates. He gets high marks for his ''demeanor.'' Baseball people use the word constantly, and it serves as a catchall for many things: a player's work habits; his ability to stay on a steady emotional keel whether he has hit a couple of home runs or struck out four times; his relationships among teammates and coaches.
 ''Ryan is just a very easy guy to be around,'' the Phillies' manager, Charlie Manuel, says. ''You couldn't ask for a guy with a better demeanor.''
 Howard, though, does share one similarity with Bonds, a significant one within the context of baseball's changing sociology: he is an African-American player at a moment when the number of American-born blacks in the major leagues has dropped strikingly. In 2005, the National League champion Houston Astros had no black players on their World Series roster, the first time that was the case for a team in half a century. At one point last season, six teams in Major League Baseball did not have a single black player on their rosters. Below the professional level, there are so few blacks in the game that many of the nation's historically black colleges are fielding baseball teams made up mostly of white and Hispanic players. (The Washington Post reported that Coppin State University in Baltimore had 30 white male students enrolled in 2006; roughly half of them were on the baseball team.)
 Black players now make up about 9 percent of big-league rosters -- down from 19 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1975. Hispanics, at 29 percent, have become the dominant minority in the game.
 So how did Ryan Howard become a baseball player? Part of the answer is that he comes from where many of the game's white players do -- a largely white suburb. He grew up in Wildwood, Mo., on the outer edge of St. Louis's western sprawl. His mother, Cheryl, now retired, worked in marketing, and his father, Ron, is a manager for I.B.M. He has three siblings, including a fraternal twin, all of whom are college-educated professionals.
 Ron and Cheryl Howard don't consider themselves particularly athletic. ''I could play everything, just not well,'' Ron told me. Cheryl Howard added: ''I'm from the pre-Title IX days, so I didn't get a chance to play organized sports. But my father played sandlot baseball with Willie Mays in Birmingham, so we've decided Ryan's baseball talent comes through my side.''
 When Ryan Howard was 2, his father walked into a room where a TV was showing a baseball game and saw his son intent on the action and swinging a little red bat. ''It was such a natural swing,'' Ron Howard says. ''At that moment I knew he'd be some kind of baseball player. How far? I didn't know. But that feeling came over me.''
 To be blessed with hand-eye coordination and the strength to mash a baseball 500 feet ought to fill a man with self-assurance. But pro sports are full of gifted players with cracks in their psyches who on some career-killing level do not fully believe in themselves. Howard's upbringing seems to have imbued him with a sense of self that extends well beyond his abilities on the ball field.
 As his parents describe it, their household was a mix of old-time Southern values and middle-class aspiration. ''All our kids were taught to say 'Yes, sir,' 'Yes, ma'am' and so on,'' Ron Howard says. ''We valued hard work and taught them: believe in oneself, believe in each other and believe in the Almighty.''
 There were, as well, some quirkier rules. For example, Ron taught everyone to drive using a standard shift, which he considers an essential life skill, and made them take their driving tests in a car with a stick shift. ''No, they weren't pleased about it,'' he recalls, ''but it was a binary situation. You do it this way if you want to drive -- or the other way if you don't want to drive.''
 Howard played a lot of soccer as a kid. He was a good high school basketball player. He also played the trombone in the school band. He played a little football, but his mother insisted he give it up because she believed he risked injury by being such a large target.
 Ryan Howard says that he was one of just a handful of black players on most of his youth baseball teams. His sports heroes were Barry Bonds, Ken Griffey Jr., Tony Gwynn. ''I guess you can throw Michael in there,'' he adds, meaning Michael Jordan, but he makes it sound like an obligation. He was focused on baseball.
 In Philadelphia, Howard faces the particular challenge of playing for a team with famously demanding (and sometimes abusive) fans -- and in a city with a particularly shameful history of mistreating black baseball players. The Phillies were the last team in the National League to sign a black player -- in 1957, a full decade after Jackie Robinson's debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Robinson himself suffered such abuse from the Phillies that he later wrote that they were ''a Northern team that I had come to associate with the Deep South.''
 Other than Howard, the Phillies have had just one black superstar: Dick Allen, then known as ''Richie,'' a fearsome slugger but a rebel and a turbulent soul who endured such mind-bending abuse from the home crowd that after six years in Philadelphia he was scratching cryptic messages with his spikes in the infield dirt. (Among them, ''Mom,'' ''Boo'' and ''Oct. 2,'' the date of the last game of the 1969 season.)
 Sometimes, though, a certain athlete and a city just seem like a good match. Howard drives a GMC Yukon with 100,000-plus miles and is not much for fancy clothes or late nights. His Everyman persona has appeal in a city where even white-collar, well-heeled season-ticket holders are apt to describe themselves as blue-collar fans. During the season, he lives in a condominium in South Philadelphia not far from the ballpark.
 ''I'm cool with everybody,'' says Howard, who is single and has a 6-year-old son from a former relationship. ''The fans have been nothing but nice to me. I'll walk around the city and people will come up to me and say 'Hi' or 'Keep up the good work' or whatever, and I'll stop and talk to them.''
 Baseball is the most hidebound of American sports. It manufactures and honors tradition, myth and superstition. And it probably also has a greater share of ignorance than other sports. The entire movement toward once-obscure and newly developed statistics, after all -- begun by Bill James and others, some of them now in the employ of big-league teams -- came about because professional baseball people drew erroneous conclusions from the same old numbers they loved so much.
 A certain amount of ignorance, on the part of baseball executives, most likely impeded Ryan Howard's baseball progress. A man his size is not easily overlooked. But his career trajectory strongly suggests that his talent was underappreciated. He was not a coveted prospect out of high school and went to Southwest Missouri State to play baseball. After the Phillies selected him in the fifth round of the 2001 draft, he began a slow, four-and-a-half-season climb through the minor leagues, making stops in five different minor-league towns and hitting for power and a decent average in each of them.
 In 2004, splitting time between Double A and Triple A, he hit 46 home runs and knocked in 131 runs, the kind of performance that ought to bring about a promotion to the big leagues -- especially considering that Howard was already 24. But the Phillies had a veteran at first base, Jim Thome, to whom they had paid millions as a free agent, and Howard began the 2005 season in Scranton, Pa., back in Triple A.
 Thome was signed after Howard had already been a Phillies minor leaguer for two seasons; another team, recognizing what it had in Howard, might have spent its free-agent money elsewhere to avoid a logjam at first base. But the Phillies, with no postseason appearances since 1993, have not been the canniest of franchises.
 From his parents, who lived through the civil rights struggle in Birmingham and often talked to their children about that era, Howard already knew something about patience and perspective. He didn't much like being stuck in the minor leagues, but knew it wasn't the worst thing that could happen to a person. ''I learned what I could,'' he says of his years in the minors. His father says: ''We didn't see a frustration on Ryan's part. We saw a strong determination.''
 After Thome suffered a season-ending injury, Howard finally secured a full-time spot with the Phillies in 2005 -- and hit 22 home runs and earned the National League Rookie of the Year award while playing just a little over half a season. A player who can accomplish that at age 25 -- then follow it up with the season Howard had last year -- almost certainly could have held his own in the big leagues a couple of years earlier. And Howard's extended time in the minors cost him money. His salary last season was $355,000, a pittance by baseball's current economics. He is still a year from arbitration, and can't become a free agent until after the 2011 season, when he will be 32. He has not publicly made an issue of his contract, but recently he switched to a more prominent agent.
 In one sense, though, Howard was probably lucky to end up with the Phillies, whose manager, Charlie Manuel, while not much admired for his in-game strategy, is widely considered to have a deep knowledge of hitting. Howard was still in the low minor leagues when Manuel, then an assistant in the Phillies' front office, first saw him bat. Manuel noticed something unusual about Howard's style: he stood way off the plate, and his posture was oriented toward foul ground in left field, like a golfer who compensates for a wicked slice by aiming wide of the fairway.
 In Howard's case, he did not like to handle pitches inside, in on his hands, and his strength still allowed him to hit outside pitches a long way. So he took a stance that forced pitchers to throw the ball about a foot inside the plate to jam him. Manuel saw Howard hit a home run to left field and concluded that because of the way he was standing, it was more like a center- or right-field home run -- he had to pull the ball just to keep it fair.
 ''We got him straightened out a little bit, so it wasn't so extreme,'' Manuel says. ''He was the type of kid you always could talk to.''
 All hitters, though, have a way they want to hit, a style that feels natural. Howard's left-field orientation is still a large part of his approach. When he hits the ball to the left of second base, he almost always lifts it, which is what pitchers specifically try to avoid with home-run hitters: fly balls. When he pulls the ball, he hits more ground balls and low line drives with top spin -- the type that do not carry over fences. ''The amazing thing is, even with all those home runs, Ryan's still learning to pull it,'' says Milt Thompson, the Phillies' hitting coach. ''When he learns to clear his hips out of there and get the ball in the air, you'll really see something.''
 Pitchers defeat hitters with good pitches, of course, but all hitters have a way they get themselves out, the most common being a lack of patience. Instead of hoarding their energy -- their ''load'' or ''power load,'' as it is called in baseball -- they commit to a swing too soon, particularly on off-speed pitches, and by the time the bat meets the ball they have expended much of their power.
 Howard is different. When he gets himself out, it is more often the result of an overabundance of patience. He lets the ball get too close to his body and does not get the barrel of the bat fully around it. ''It's unusual in any player, let alone a big strong kid just into the league,'' Manuel says. ''But that's why Ryan hits the ball the way he does. He's rarely out in front of where he wants to be. He's got his full load intact when he does make contact.''
 Howard takes a slight uppercut, quick and compact. ''Ted Williams used to say, The longer the arc, the farther the ball will go,'' Manuel says. ''I say, The longer the arc, the slower the swing. Ryan has all the power he needs with that shorter arc.''
 After Howard and I were finished eating at O'Charley's and the table was cleared, I unpacked my laptop and we watched a sort of greatest-hits collection, a compilation of his home runs that the Phillies had copied onto a DVD. He enjoyed it -- what player wouldn't? -- but what struck me was how much he remembered. He came to the plate 704 times last season and saw 2,859 pitches, yet now he recalled pitch sequences from months before. He doesn't keep a notebook, as some hitters do, but it seems he doesn't have to.
 ''This is a pretty good AB,'' he said as we watched him step in for his at-bat against the New York Mets' Guillermo Mota. ''He was mixing it up pretty good. Fastballs, change-ups, inside, outside.'' After eight pitches, including several foul balls, the count was full. Mota threw a change-up, and Howard barely managed to foul it off. ''That was a tough pitch -- nasty,'' he said. ''Here comes the fastball now.'' The next pitch was indeed a fastball, which Howard hit over the center-field fence for his 47th home run.
 Not surprisingly, considering he is the son of a computer programmer, Howard talks about hitting as if each at-bat is a problem to be solved: ''If the pitcher is one you've faced before, you have to be thinking, How did he try to get me out? He might try something different this time, but you have to have that in the back of your mind. Each at-bat and each pitch you have a game plan that comes about from processing all the information you have.''
 Mike Arbuckle, who is in charge of the Phillies' minor-league system, told me: ''Ryan has the aptitude and the intelligence to maximize all that natural ability he has. To be honest with you, there are more guys who aren't that way than are. And he also has the inner drive to want to apply all that intelligence, and that's not always the case, either.''
 The DVD included Howard's big game against Tim Hudson. After we watched the last home run, the line drive to left field, Howard said he would have had no idea, as he swung, that the pitch was outside. ''That's the point at which you can't be thinking about anything,'' he said. ''You have a game plan, but then it's instinct. You just see the pitch and go after it.''
 The camera followed Howard into the dugout after that last home run, then back out onto the top step, where he waved to acknowledge the home crowd's standing ovation. Together, we were watching him at a moment of maximum glory -- the Slugger in full -- but he seemed to want to deflect attention from himself, to display, as always, proper baseball demeanor.
 In the background, we caught a glimpse of Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins, who seemed to be laughing with a kind of wide-eyed, can-you-believe-this expression on his face. ''Look at Jimmy,'' Ryan Howard said, his own face breaking into a grin. ''He seems like he got a big kick out of that, doesn't he?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: RUTHIAN FORM -- Four out of 10 fly balls were home runs for Howard last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN WILKES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pgs. 43,44,47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (83%) Philadelphia Phillies

PERSON: Michael Sokolove; Ryan Howard

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



75 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 5285 words

HEADLINE: ALLE MONTAGNE CON PAPA (TO THE MOUNTAINS, WITH THE OLD MAN)

BYLINE: By CHIP BROWN. 
Chip Brown is the author of ''Good Morning Midnight'' and ''Afterwards, You're a Genius.''

 BODY:
1. ''If we're not careful,'' my brother, Toby, said as we loaded our bags into a taxi at Milan's Malpensa airport, ''this could end up being a story about emergency medical facilities in northern Italy.''
 My father smiled with forbearance refined over a lifetime of humoring wiseacre children. He'd jumped at the invitation to leave his three-stage care facility in North Carolina and join my brother and me for a week of skiing on the flanks of the Monte Rosa massif in the Italian Alps, but I could see he was anxious. The airline had lost his luggage and with it his blood pressure medicine and the stuff he took to help him sleep. And it had been four years since he last skied. He was 82, and his chronically romantic visions of what he might yet accomplish or still be able to do were foundering on physical ailments. A separated shoulder wouldn't heal. He was plagued by various joint and organ woes. He didn't like to be too far from a bathroom, a handrail or a dry martini. This would certainly be his last ski trip, closing a career that began in 1932, when he strapped on a pair of primitive boards and schussed a hill known as Linkety Blinks at the Montclair Golf Club in New Jersey. My mother was worried. ''Take care of my bear,'' she said. ''He's all I've got.'' 
Toby had already made a point of locating the nearest hospital, in the town of Borgosesia. We could see the Monte Rosa massif from the airport, a spectacular clutch of snowbound summits capped by the 15,204-foot Punta Dufour, the second highest peak in Western Europe.
 ''Alagna,'' I said to the driver.
 He nodded and commenced programming his dashboard G.P.S. From the airport, Alagna was supposed to be an easy hour-and-40-minute drive: west on a major highway, then north-northwest up the bending vineyard-strewn valley of the Sesia River.
 ''Alagna, Monte Rosa,'' I said again and pointed at the massif so there was no mistaking where we wanted to go. Perhaps he didn't believe us -- the ski season across Europe was melting under an unprecedented heat wave. The papers were saying it was the warmest winter in 1,250 years. 
 ''Monte Rosa,'' the driver said with patriotic fervor. And then, in the thrall of the alluring female voice on his G.P.S., he tacked off in the opposite direction. A clever local shortcut, perhaps? It took about an hour to realize we were badly off course, headed not for Alagna in the valley of the Sesia River but another town of the same name. (Don't ask me where it is.) We stopped three times for directions. We got on and off the same toll road half a dozen times. We followed narrow farm tracks along unflooded rice fields. We passed a mysterious walled village. As the G.P.S. siren offered lunatic directions -- Vada diritto! Uscita a sinistra! -- fog began to gather and the light began to fail. The trip took on the floating, purgatorial quality of a Samuel Beckett play.
 ''Are we looking for the hotel?'' my father asked as we wandered around an industrial area on the pan-flat Padan plains.
 I caught my brother's eye. For years, no Trivial Pursuit player in the family could approach Dad's knowledge of geography. Was his guidance system on the fritz, too?
 ''Dad, we're looking for a town up in the mountains, with snow.''
 ''That's right.''
 It was four hours later and pitch dark when we finally arrived in Alagna Valsesia, assured of our whereabouts as much by the pile of plowed snow in front of the hotel as by the sign outside the village.
 2. The plan, of course, was not just to ski in the ambience of old Europe, but to linger with the old man -- to play chess, and drink wine, and offer token opposition to his familiar rant that popular music since Jerome Kern and Cole Porter wasn't worth a damn. There is an elegiac undercurrent to almost everything we do together now. It goes with the territory, I guess. A frail pensioner with milky eyes and a head full of ghosts has usurped the vital, godlike figure of my boyhood. I know that one day my decline will disillusion my son in similar fashion. And yet the longing to protect and be protected is so instinctive that even in the most mundane moments, I catch my father looking for something of his prime for my sake, as I catch myself wanting to shore up mine for the sake of my son.
 In the morning we woke to the sound of rushing water and church bells. The three of us were sharing a raspberry-colored room at the Cristallo, a newly renovated (and, with its boutique decor, somewhat incongruous) four-star hotel beside the Sesia River. It was January, but the weather was more like a day in April: immaculate blue sky, temperatures in the high 40s. After breakfast, we went to rent skis at the only shop we could find in town that offered them. It was a half-mile hike down the main street, a narrow lane lined with barking dogs and crowing roosters. The damp air smelled of wood smoke and sap. A woman was leaning out the window of a villa, whacking a pillow. At the ski shop, we weren't asked to sign liability waivers. We plodded back up the hill, gear in tow, reanimating the dogs. Dad was winded; Toby took most of his load.
 Alagna has a population of about 400 and only a handful of hotels and restaurants. The village is strung along the west bank of the Sesia under the bell tower of St. Giovanni Battista, a Catholic church dating to 1511. It has vivid frescoes painted on the outside walls and a flat-screen monitor offering the latest weather forecast mounted on the side. (The parish priest is a passionate mountaineer with over 200 ascents of Monte Rosa.) 
 What draws skiers to Alagna is its proximity to some of the most exhilarating off-piste terrain in the world. What drew me was the sublime and storied landscape of the Alps. No other mountains, certainly not any in the United States, are so steeped in history or convey so much of our aesthetic and spiritual heritage. It is in contemplating the Alps, rather than, say, Interstate 70 from the chairlift at Vail, that one can, in Wordsworth's phrase, feed upon infinity. And for those who care about such things, Alagna is an anachronism -- as pristine an example of a traditional ski town as you'll find in Europe. Many of the houses are based on the centuries-old stone-and-wood designs of the Walser people, a High German-speaking population that began filtering into valleys south of Monte Rosa in the 12th century. You wouldn't think from the architecture that skiing and tourism had really eclipsed the old mainstays of farming and woodcutting.
 ''In the 1930's and 1940's, Alagna was the place where the high-society elite would come,'' said Simona de Simone, the owner of the Cristallo, which her parents acquired in the mid-1970's. ''In the 1970's and 80's, the national ski team used to come here to train on the glacier under Punta Indren in the summer. But for the last 20 years, Alagna has been hibernating.''
 Lately, real estate prices have begun to heat up, and other changes are in the works. A new lift under construction will open new terrain. A parking garage is being built next to the gondola. One of the old hotels on what's known as Hotel Square is being converted to condominiums. But there are no discos, no chain stores, no ersatz Alpine lodges. You can't find souvenir baseball caps that say ''Alagna.'' (I tried.) Petrus-swilling Russian billionaires prefer glitzier spots like Courchevel on the French side of the Alps. Alagna, when it has snow, caters to international powder hounds and weekending Italians. (It's a quick two-hour trip from downtown Milan unless your car is equipped with cutting-edge satellite guidance technology, in which case count on four.)
 As we lugged our gear back through town, we could see spindrift streaming off Punta Grober, the 11,476-foot peak that rises some 7,000 feet above the village at the head of the valley. Ridgeline larch and spruce trees were swaying wildly. Alagna is connected by a sprawling network of ski runs and lifts to towns in the two main Monte Rosa valleys to the west. But there is only one lift out of the village itself, a gondola situated almost as an afterthought at the end of a Dumpster-lined driveway. Lift tickets are a bargain at $45 a day, but when we got to the ticket window, it was closed. Too windy, we were told. Come back tomorrow.
 3. In the morning, Toby and I decided to head out by ourselves, promising Dad we would collect him at around 11:00, after we'd had a chance to reconnoiter. He seemed relieved. His luggage still hadn't arrived. He wanted to wash his underwear and go back to bed. He'd lain awake much of the night; he said that of late he'd been brooding about his life, his shortcomings as a professional writer, a husband and a father. And there was the additional agitation of the chess game the previous evening, when he'd blundered away a winning position and let me escape with a stalemate. By the time we left, he'd already fallen back asleep. He looked like a royal mummy with his arms crossed on his chest; only the rasp of breath signified his status among the living. 
 I had some anxieties of my own, mainly about keeping up with my brother. Toby is not only 10 years younger but lives at altitude, in Telluride, Colo., where he has skied close to 100 days a year for the last 17 years. He'd already logged a month on Colorado snow. I live at sea level and am lucky to ski once a year; the only training I'd done for this trip was to click on Alagna-related Web sites. On top of all that, Toby already knew the terrain, having skied Monte Rosa last year with his wife and two preteen sons during a family vacation to the winter Olympics in nearby Turin. 
 ''I can't believe how little snow there is,'' he said, pointing to a bare hill as we rode the gondola up. ''All this was covered last year. You couldn't see any of these rocks.'' (Later that day, he began checking Colorado snow reports online. ''Telluride just got 17 inches!'' he said.)
 From the gondola we walked to a double tram that whisked us on a heart-stopping ride over the Cimalegna cliffs and on up to Passo Salati. We were now almost 6,000 feet above Alagna amid a spectacular panorama of mountains. We took a run under the tram to the halfway loading station, where the trail's end was marked by a sign showing a skier tumbling off a cliff. The easy groomer seemed like something Dad would enjoy, assuming he spotted the sign. 
 We got on the tram again, rode back to the top and then turned west on groomed but slightly steeper trails that funneled us into the Gressoney Valley, where Toby had stayed last year in the town of Gressoney-St.-Jean. The valley was wider and more developed than Alagna. My thighs were burning from the ground we'd covered, and I was glad to rest on the two lifts that took us back up to Passo Salati. We cut around to a snowy off-piste area below the Col d'Olen -- on one of those rollicking luge-track traverses where the pain of falling is aggravated by the humiliation. The snow in the sunless couloir was dry and plentiful and proved to be some of the best we would have all week. But the run was exhaustingly long, and by the time we got to the tram station, we'd skied almost 9,000 vertical feet. My legs were ready for a three-stage care facility. We were still only halfway to Alagna, 2,700 feet below.
 ''Power through the pain,'' Toby said.
 The trail to the village was mostly a white ribbon of man-made snow winding through an autumnal tableau of dry pastures and leafless trees. The snow was leached out in places, exposing the dirt underneath. One steep stretch was so icy and skied out that even Toby seemed gripped as he clattered across it, like a moose on roller skates.
 ''No way Dad is coming down this,'' he said. 
 Dad was waiting for us when we got back to the hotel. Toby had outfitted him with a gray parka, blue wind pants, a Norwegian wool hat and goggles. He helped him into the rented ski boots like a squire buckling armor on a knight. 
 And up we went. I glanced at my father as we rose out of the valley into the realm of the white peaks. Was he feeding on infinity or fretting about his still-undelivered suitcase? I couldn't read his face behind the goggles, and he wasn't saying.
 A writer I know had a friend who once told him a man's life could be divided into four stages: world, village, garden, bed. When we threw down our skis at Passo Salati, the world was at our feet. 
 After giving some remedial counsel about clearing the snow off his boots, Toby snapped Dad into the bindings. He poled over to the top of the run. Bodwitch it was called; facile was the grade. The gentle entry pitch could be negotiated with a turn or two before it flattened out -- that was the pattern of the whole run, a series of facile steps. The only easy trail on the mountain, from what I could tell. 
 I dipped down to the flat part to wait. When I looked back, Dad was on the ground and Toby was bending over him, lifting him under the arms the way he had reset his own two boys a decade ago when he was teaching them to ski, and the way last winter I had lifted my son, Oliver, out of a powder bank, laughing because he looked as if he had battered himself in flour, and then biting my lip because his pride was wounded and he was crying, and it moved me almost like nothing else to see how much it mattered to him that he shine in my eyes. It seemed like yesterday that Dad had gathered all of us in Telluride for a Christmas holiday and was himself confidently carving turns down See Forever. I could go back even further to those Precambrian times in the 1950s, when my mittens were connected by strings and Dad was stemming down Bromley Mountain in Vermont in leather lace-up boots and aluminum skis as long as rain gutters, or that time before I was born when he was a young reporter at The Rutland Herald, writing stories like the one about the local dog who tried three times to commit suicide, and he got to ski free at Pico Peak -- Dad, not the dog -- because the company that ran the lifts liked reporters. . . .
 And now here he was, on a holiday from a house in North Carolina where if you didn't pull a cord in the morning, a medical SWAT team would burst through the door, greasing defibrillator paddles. Here he was, under way at last in the Italian Alps, dropping through the fall line and picking up speed and leaning into a turn, his first in four years, just like the old days. And then he fell. His skis skidded out from under him. He went down like someone sliding into home in a softball game. He went down hard in the middle of a slope where nobody fell, not even the little kids skiing on leashes. We watched for a moment in a kind of shock, my brother and I. Dad planted his poles. He tried to get up, but he didn't have the strength. That's what sealed it. I looked at Toby and we knew it wasn't going to work. It would take us all day to get Dad down. Facile was too hard. My throat closed up; I had to wipe my eyes. I found myself remembering that Gerard Manley Hopkins poem about sorrow that I learned in grade school when it meant zilch, the one that begins: Margaret, are you grieving/ Over Goldengrove unleaving? How did it end? 
 It is the blight man was born for,/ It is Margaret you mourn for.
 Toby hopped out of his skis and went to where Dad was sitting on the snow. Suddenly-Mortal Margaret removed hers too and clambered up to him. Dad seemed bewildered more than anything else. Not to be able to do something that had been second nature for so long. . . .
 Toby got him out of the bindings and helped him to his feet. 
 ''Dad, I think we better not try it.''
 He didn't argue.
 He seemed so unnaturally passive and tractable that I wondered for a moment if I might get him to agree that nothing in Cole Porter's songbook rivaled the artistry of Grand Funk Railroad, not to mention Toby's onetime sine qua non band, Haircut 100.
 ''I don't have any balance,'' he said.
 Toby took his arm and helped him up the hill. It was all of 20 vertical feet my father had logged on his last run, but when he got back to flat ground he seemed completely drained. I could only imagine the miles of territory he'd covered in his mind.
 It was for just these moments that alcohol must have been invented. Hoping to leaven the funereal mood, I suggested that Dad take the lift from Passo Salati down to Gabiet on the Gressoney side of the watershed and meet us for lunch. We stowed his skis in the tram shed, saw him to the gondola, then whipped down the run and were waiting for him when he stepped off at the Gabiet station, a patch of pale forehead showing between his goggles and hat.
 ''My kids call that goggle gap,'' Toby said. ''It's uncool.'' 
 Dad fixed his hat. We clumped up a hill to Alpenhutte Lys and found a table in the sun amid a gorgeous backdrop of couloirs, rocky bowls and ridges. After some lasagna, salad and bread washed down with Moretti beer, Dad's spirits perked up. He studied a quotation attributed to Goethe that was written on the wooden balcony, drawing on the Latin he had taken back in the days he was schussing Linkety Blinks.
 ''What does it say, Dad?''
 '' 'If you want to know the Almighty God you must walk in the mountains.' ''
 How wise of Goethe not to mention anything about skiing.
 So we walked in the mountains, but only to get back to the almighty Gabiet gondola. As we rode up, Toby carefully went over the rest of the segments of Dad's return trip to Alagna, explaining that he had to carry his skis onto the tram and then load them in the rack on the Alagna gondola, and then collect them when he exited at the base. He could leave them by the ticket office. Toby would bring them back to the hotel. O.K.? O.K. We said goodbye. I had to power through the pain again, watching him struggle over to the tram in his awkward ski boots. 
 And then I was distracted by the task of not killing myself on the slick traverse over to the good snow below the Col d'Olen.
 When we got back to Alagna, I slumped on the steps leading down to our hotel, while Toby, who could still walk, went to retrieve Dad's skis, hoping they were where they were supposed to be. When he came back five minutes later, he had them on his shoulder. 
 ''The Eagle has landed,'' he said.
 Later Dad told us that on the way down a man in his 60's asked him, ''How old can you be and still go skiing?''
 Later we heard about one of the local Alagna guides who'd been spotted climbing Monte Rosa at age 94.
 4. Later Dad said he might take a lesson, even though Toby had already returned his skis.
 Later -- and this is the thing that really got me -- Dad apologized for letting us down.
 I half-wished for his sake that Alagna had the diversion of a disco or some Russian billionaires with a retinue of snow bunnies, or at least a shop with a copy of The International Herald Tribune for the old newspaperman. There wasn't much to do in the day if you weren't skiing. Even then, given how the glories of the terrain were circumscribed by the lack of snow, the skiing was like listening to Rossini on a cheap radio. (''Durango just got 37 inches!'' Toby cried.) Dad napped; he swam in the hotel lap pool. He burrowed into a book about the battle of Iwo Jima. He took walks. His shoes picked up the white dust that spilled off the trucks hauling kaolin from a mine upriver to porcelain factories down valley. At night we played chess; his one victory, fittingly, was in a match that went to an endgame. We resumed our debate about the merits of pop music written after 1945. His suitcase finally showed up, and happily for everyone, he no longer had to wash his underwear in the sink. It was unaccountably touching to be camped in a room together, padding around in our pajamas, coordinating dental regimens and urinary schedules.
 Each night after the Colorado ski report (''42 inches at Wolf Creek!''), we headed out for dinner. We found a great wine bar called Bacher with a gleaming interior of burnished wood and alcoves in which the wine bottles were lighted like sacred objects. The proprietor cheerfully told us what to avoid on his own list, and then after a delicious nebbiolo-based wine from the Langhe region (Batie by Gianni Gagliardo), he brought out a masterpiece: a 1997 Barolo made by Ceretto from the grapes of the Bricco Rocche vineyard. He rinsed each glass with a splash of the wine, and refused to let us drink until the bouquet had time to open in the air. 
 One afternoon, I knocked off early, and Dad and I walked up to Pedemonte, a hamlet just north of Alagna where a cluster of Walser houses are set eave to eave, creating a cozy, souklike atmosphere. One of them, built in 1628, had been turned into a museum. The Walser people were clever and resourceful, expert woodworkers, weavers, dairymen, mountaineers. The ribbed porches of their houses served to dry the grass and hemp they harvested in the late summer months. The heat rising from the sheep and goats they kept in ground-floor stables helped warm their living rooms on the floor above. Hay stored in the attic acted as insulation. The roofs were fashioned from huge plates of slate and gneiss and were designed to compress under the weight of heavy snow without forcing the walls apart. 
 We ran into some skiers who were also staying at the Cristallo: Robert and Sara Scheiner. They lived outside London; Sara was English, Robert originally from New York. He'd almost been a casualty of one of my emergency stopping procedures on the Olen run, but rather than press charges, he offered to mediate the conflict over a glass of wine. He and Sara were going to have a look at the Montagna di Luce hotel, which was owned by their guide, Sergio Gabbio. Did we want to come? 
 Sergio, 51, belonged to one of the handful of prominent families in Alagna. His 77-year-old mother, Caterina Remella, was one of the last people who could speak the Walser dialect. Maybe the last. Sergio pointed out the hotel's intricate weight-bearing roof beams and the floor of the hotel restaurant, made of 100-year-old granite stones. Then he uncorked a 1999 Gattinara Osso San Grato made by Antoniolo and talked about Alagna. What to any outsider was a sleepy backwater uncorrupted by commercial pressures was to him already paradise lost. ''The only tracks you ever saw in the snow were animal tracks,'' he said with a sigh. ''Now there are ski tracks everywhere. It's good for the economy, but it's changed the life here. For me, Alagna was perfect 10 years ago. The winters were full of snow, and people came from everywhere -- Sweden, America. Good-quality people.''
 ''Unlike this riffraff you've got now,'' I joked. 
 Robert and Sara laughed, but Sergio looked stricken, fearing he'd offended us. English was not his first language. As he quickly worked to mend a fellowship that wasn't broken, I had another Margaret moment, struck by all the nuances that were lost in translation and how we all live unwittingly in families the way we live unwittingly in our native tongues, attuned to a tacit understanding that makes a joke funny or invests meaning and emotion in otherwise mundane events. It was exactly this ineffable context that began to evaporate like a pond in a drought when you were ratcheted from world to village to garden to bed. Who can know ahead of time what portion of one's identity is bound up in another's life? And who are these people who at once are so familiar and so mysterious -- whose power to define us we scarcely recognize until they are slipping from our hands? 
 I had hoped physical exertion would stifle Margaret, but over the past few days, she had insinuated herself even into my skiing. It was partly due to the conditions, the patches of ice and the scattering of rocks on the slopes. I was checking my speed as if the point of skiing were not transcendent moments of liberation but rather simply not to fall. I was skiing like someone braced for a blow. Maybe if we were in Durango with those 37 inches. . . .
 I decided the best way to ditch Margaret was by skiing all the way to Champoluc (two valleys to the west) and back with Toby and a local guide who had offered to show us around. His name was Armin Fisher. He was 41. He grew up in the Napa Valley but had been living in Europe since 1980. He told us he was the only American certified in Italy by the International Federation of Mountain Guides, and one of a dozen or so guides in the Corpo Guida Alagna. They all wore blue Marmot jackets. (A few years ago the Lyskamm Viaggi travel agency started its own guide service; Lyskamm guides wear green.) Armin's wife, Maria, was an architect from one of the power families in Alagna; they lived in a Walser house she renovated in the village. Armin had an office on the ground floor with a climbing wall. Being a Walser house, the ceilings were more suitable for Hobbits, and you had to start most climbs from a seated position on the floor. Climbing, more than skiing, was what brought Armin to the Alps; on his resume he has a solo ascent of the North Face of the Matterhorn and an ascent of the Peuterey Ridge on Mont Blanc.
 As the Alagna tram swooped toward the Cimalegna cliffs, he pointed out a 5.11 route he put up that finished right under a tram tower. 
 ''The crux went through an eagle's nest,'' he said. ''But fortunately it was in the fall, and there weren't any birds in it.'' 
 From Passo Salati, we took off for the Gressoney Valley, retracing the route Toby and I had skied on our first day. It wouldn't have taxed the 40-year-olds to descend the entire 3,782 feet to the floor of the valley without stopping, but I was bathing in lactic acid and grateful whenever Armin pulled over to point out some feature of the landscape: mountains, huts, glaciers, great off-piste runs that, unluckily for us, were lacking the snow to ski them. 
 In the Gressoney Valley we walked our skis across the road and boarded another tram and then a chairlift that took us almost 3,000 feet up to the Colle Bettaforca. Via trails and interconnecting lifts, we eventually worked our way down to Champoluc. From the top of the chairlift at Sarezza Mountain at just under 9,000 feet, we had a staggering view of the Monte Rosa summits and the Matterhorn, or Cervino, as the Italians call it. We turned around to begin the trip back, up seven lifts and down trails that, by the time we reached Alagna, would amount to close to 20,000 vertical feet of skiing that day. I discovered the joy of my professional duty to stop and take notes. It was Sunday, and the area around the top of the first gondola was like a scene from a city park. Italian mothers were pushing fat-tired baby strollers in the slushy snow, and people in short-sleeve shirts were strolling around as if skiing were only one of the distractions available when you got off a gondola. The terminus of nearly every lift had a restaurant with a great wine list.
 Eventually, we got back to Passo Salati. Armin had to go get his daughter at ski school, so we said goodbye. He had clients coming in next week and had promised to find them snow, which meant he would probably be looking north in Switzerland.
 Toby and I skied the bedeviling Col d'Olen traverse but stopped before the actual run at the wooden deck of the Rifugio Guglielmina, where Margherita of Savoy, the queen of Italy from 1878 to 1900, once stayed. Margherita, are you grieving . . . ?
 We found a table.
 ''May we see a menu?'' Toby said when the waiter approached.
 ''I am the menu!'' the waiter said. 
 He brought out bowls of vegetable soup and drafts of beer. After so much motion, so much territory devoured, it was bliss to do nothing but sit and let the mountains come to us. A group of Italians in their early 20s sat down at the other end of our table, men and women chattering happily, laughing, tossing their heads. They seemed worldly in a dolce vita way that no similar group of mindlessly vital Americans ever could. Maybe my impressions were distorted by fantasies about life in Europe. But I saw the waiter bring the wine they'd ordered, a Barbera. They watched in silence as he poured it. When he put the bottle down, they swirled their glasses and held them up like torches to study the color in the sun.
 5. The evening before we left, Dad and I walked down through town to return the skis. Toby had cut his little toe on a granite curb by the Cristallo lap pool and was limping around. He didn't feel like powering through the pain. Dad slung a pair of boots over his good shoulder. It was dusk when we started out and nearly dark when we came back. He hadn't said much. Lately, it seemed the only way to get a conversation started with him was to ask about the past. I asked when he'd last been in Italy. It was 18 years ago, he said, when he and my mother had visited my sister Cam, who was living in Bologna. They went on to Turkey afterward with their old friends the Goulds. Drove around in a rented car. Dad was at the wheel when they pulled into a Shell station. He didn't see the attendant frantically signaling, and the car sank to the hubcaps in freshly poured cement.
 The story had carried us up the road, and now we were by the church, where a newly posted notice announced a Mass for the late Clara Lageder Vedova Enzio, a fixture of Alagna life who had died in November, at 89. All her children were listed, 11 of them, and all the ways she was related to people -- mother-in-law, great-aunt. The announcement was in Italian, of course, so we couldn't be certain who was what, but the word for widow -- vedova -- had been incorporated into her proper name. We stood there a good quarter of an hour, my father and I, trying to translate the particulars of Widow Enzio's life. And when we left in the morning, an hour before first light, I thought of her, and felt her presence, and my father's, too, when the headlights of the airport van picked out the sign for Alagna with a red slash through it.When in Alagna . . .ONLINEThe town's Web site (alagna.it) has lots of information about hotels, restaurants, ski conditions and things to do, as well as maps. HOTELSHotel CristalloThe Hotel Cristallo, within walking distance of the gondola, is probably the least traditional establishment in this most traditional ski town. But it's the one four-star hotel in Alagna (about $200 a night), with a good restaurant and a lap pool. hotelcristalloalagna.com. Montagna di Luce
 Much less expensive ($90 a night) and more traditional than the Cristallo, Montagna di Luce is in Pedemonte, the Walser hamlet on the outskirts of Alagna -- which means it's not the most convenient for skiers. But if you have any leg muscles left at the end of the day, it's worth the hike. The hotel also has one of the best restaurants in town, fashioned from what was once an old cow shed. montagnadiluce.it.RESTAURANTSUnioneUnione has a great wine list, but then so does nearly every place in town. The pot roast and the venison cooked in red wine sauce are amazing. No one in my family was adventurous enough to try the carne di cavallo -- grilled horse meat. BacherA wood-paneled wine bar right off the main street in the middle of town, with some 400 wines, most of them local and regional productions that seldom make it to stores in the United States. GUIDE SERVICESCorpo Guide AlagnaThe ''blue coat'' Alagna-area mountain guides. Rates are as high as $325 a day, but it's worth it if you want to ski couloirs and tricky mountain areas (guidealagna.com). One of the Corpo guides, Armin Fisher, an American, offers tours through his company, Mountains and More.mountainsandmore.com.Lyskamm ViaggiA guide service (these guides wear green coats) and a travel agency that can book hotels. lyskammviaggi.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: GREAT VIEWS, EVEN BETTER WINE LIST -- The Rifugio Guglielmina, at the top of the bedeviling Col d'Olen run.
75 YEARS ON SKIS -- Sandy, the author's father, at Passo Salati.
NOT SO FACILE -- The lift below the Cimalegna cliffs.
 THE SWEET SIDE OF THE ALPS -- Alagna has no discos or chain stores -- that's the good news. The bad news is that this winter it had no snow. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MASSIMO VITALI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pgs. 66,67,68,69,70,71)Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY JASON LEE)(pg. 72) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); WEATHER (72%); GOLF (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (54%) Skiing

PERSON: Chip Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: ALPS (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%) ITALY (94%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%) Alagna (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



76 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: A Whole Wi-Fi Island: How Trendy Would That Be?

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
STEVE LEVY, the Suffolk County executive, wants to bring a wireless network to every developed square mile of Long Island, a project that would create one of the world's largest wireless hot spots.
 But if the benefits of such a multimillion-dollar project in a place where 80 percent of the people already have broadband Internet access can sometimes seem elusive, there is one thing Mr. Levy is certain the network would provide: cachet.
''It will enhance our prestige nationwide so that businesses identify Long Island as a high-tech, state-of-the-art place to do business in general,'' he said. ''We think it would provide a technological edge over other places when trying to lure businesses or conventions.'' 
 In the year since Mr. Levy announced his intention to spread wireless connections across his county, the concept has become more technically feasible, but less cutting-edge. Some 300 municipalities nationwide have or are developing wireless systems, nearly double the number of a year ago, and a half-dozen big metropolitan areas are ahead of Long Island in setting them up.
 A consortium of 42 municipalities in Silicon Valley now contends to become the largest such network, at 1,500 square miles. Nassau and Suffolk together cover about 1,200 square miles, of which 750 would be reached by the proposed network.
 ''A lot of places now are trying to differentiate themselves by creating a high-tech reputation,'' said Scott A. Shamp, a professor and director of the Mobile Media Consortium at the University of Georgia who advises governments considering municipal wireless systems. ''Long Island can say it has wireless, but so can a lot of other places. It's not the differentiator anymore.''
 That does not daunt Mr. Levy or his Nassau counterpart, Thomas R. Suozzi. Not only are they convinced that a wireless network will be an economic development boon, but they also say they think they can get private companies to assume the cost and risk.
 Whether that is true remains to be seen. Bids are due in March, and some companies have expressed concern about the model -- asking whether anchor tenants like the county or educational institutions will be available to defray the costs, and whether the system could be built in phases.
 But there seems to be no scarcity of interest. Fourteen technology companies, including giants like Cisco Systems, I.B.M. and Earthlink, have requested more information.
 Even Cablevision, which provides much of the wired service on the Island, seems enthusiastic. While wired providers have opposed municipal wireless systems elsewhere because of the competition they afford, that appears to be changing.
 A wireless system ''could be an appealing extension of a reliable wired connection, not a replacement, which is why we look forward to participating in this process, as Long Island's leading Internet service provider,'' said Jim Maiella, a Cablevision spokesman.
 The network would mainly be available outdoors and give people the ability to get online on the train or in the park or at the beach, with wireless fidelity, or Wi-Fi, connections that are now built into most laptops.
 Many cities have wireless hot spots downtown, and several -- including Philadelphia, Houston, Chicago, Portland, Ore., and Corpus Christi, Tex. -- are building or are close to building systems that stretch out to residential areas as well. 
 But the breadth of Long Island, much of it low-density residential housing, makes its project unusual.
 Dianah Neff, a partner with Civitium, the consultant the counties have retained, estimates that it will take 30,000 wireless transmitters, propped on light poles and county buildings, to reach the initial 750 square miles. Although there could be volume discounts, she said the boxes cost $1,500 to $3,000, meaning the hardware alone could cost $45 million to $90 million. The bidder would be expected to recoup costs from monthly service charges.
 IF all goes according to plan, a contract will be signed and construction will start in early 2008, Ms. Neff said.
 To what purpose? The counties see benefits for government: the ability of police officers and building inspectors to be in constant contact with databases from anywhere on the Island could increase security and productivity. Some companies with mobile workforces could also clearly benefit.
 ''What we're working for is continuity, from the Nassau-Queens border all the way out to Montauk, so that anyone at any time and any place can hook into the Web,'' Mr. Levy said. ''The practical applications are tourists who can change plane reservations on the fly, a county worker who can download a patient's information in real time, a repairman for a private company able to order a part over the Web or download instructions about how to fix an appliance.''
 Long Island's request for proposals demands a free component of the service, perhaps supported by advertising revenues, that would be slower than a paid connection. That could help bridge what is called the ''digital divide'' that limits the access of poor people to the Internet.
 Beyond those applications, the benefits are tantalizing but less concrete. Most businesses that need Internet access have it, through secure, wired connections that can carry much more information than a wireless system. 
 Sharon Cates-Williams, Suffolk's chief information officer, estimated that 80 percent of residences now have access to the Internet, but said they might be persuaded to add the wireless service, as Mr. Maiella of Cablevision suggested, for a few dollars a month. A poll her office commissioned concluded that most people liked the idea, but half said they did not want to pay for it.
 Business interests back the idea, although not because they think businesses are clamoring to get it. ''There are some practical applications,'' said Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, a business group. ''But beyond that, it's the image of Long Island that it projects that's important.''
 Mr. Shamp is wary of such faith, which he calls ''techno-thusiasm.'' He warns municipalities sinking money into wireless systems to figure out what they want first, which he calls ''putting the why in Wi-Fi.'' But if municipalities can talk industry into shouldering the cost, he said, there is no reason not to build a wireless system.
 ''Having a nice place in the coffee shop and the park to connect is a quality-of-life issue,'' Mr. Shamp said, ''and maybe quality of life contributes to economic development.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: UNWIRED -- Steve Levy, below right, the Suffolk County executive, wants to make the Island one of the world's largest wireless hot spots. At left, a wireless router in Anaheim, Calif. (Photo by Associated Press)
CONFIDENT -- Thomas R. Suozzi, left, the Nassau County executive, and Steve Levy, the Suffolk executive. (Photos by Associated Press, left
 Ed Betz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (91%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); BROADBAND (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MOBILE MEDIA (64%) Computers and the Internet; Wireless Communications 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Steve (County Exec) Levy; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



77 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices No Longer Appreciating Sharply

BYLINE: BY FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
After many years of double-digit appreciation in the value of single-family homes on Long Island, the median price for homes dropped 6.25 percent in Nassau County in January and increased only slightly in Suffolk County, compared with the same month last year, according to real estate market analysts. 
 The number of sales increased, however, creating optimism among real estate agents that this year's spring market would be stronger than last year's. Real estate agents said the market ''bottomed out'' in the last quarter of 2006 and has started to recover.
The median price of a home in Nassau was $450,000 in January, a decline of 6.25 percent from a year before, when it was $480,000, according to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island. In Suffolk, the average price of a home was up 1.9 percent, to $397,500 from $390,000.
 Across Long Island, the median price was $437,500, down 1 percent from last year, even though sales staged a considerable comeback, increasing 25 percent over January 2006.
 ''It's a strong market,'' said Donald Scanlon, president of the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island. ''When people are used to seeing 15 or 20 percent increases, they say we are losing money. But I've seen bidding wars on houses. If it's priced right, it sells. If it's overpriced, it sits.''
 Pearl Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group, agreed. But, she predicted that prices would continue to decline for the next two years before stabilizing. 
 ''I think you will probably see declines through 2008 of 10 to 15 percent,'' Dr. Kamer said. ''Then the market will start to rise again at 2 to 3 percent annually.''
 She said there was too much demand for housing on Long Island for the market to crash. ''This doesn't mean houses aren't moving,'' she said. ''People still need housing, and we are in a full employment economy. The ones that do move are realistically priced. The homeowner who sticks to a price based on prices of a year ago will not see his home move.''
 Elsewhere in the region, home prices were stagnant as well. In Westchester, the turnaround has not become apparent yet. The median price dropped 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, and sales volume was down considerably. P. Gilbert Mercurio, the chief executive of the Westchester County Board of Realtors, said prices had become too high and he expected them to remain flat for the next two quarters.
 ''Prices don't have to decrease, but they have to cease increasing to get more in line with regional income,'' Mr. Mercurio said.
 In New Jersey, the median price of homes increased about 2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, compared with a year before, according to Bill Hanley, the president of the New Jersey Association of Realtors. But sales, especially in the cheaper ranges, increased in January.
 ''We're seeing things under $300,000 or $400,000 starting to move again,'' Mr. Hanley said. ''The days of double-digit appreciation are over, but there are still multiple offers on homes when they are priced right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



78 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com.STATE OF CONNECTICUTHamden Connecticut Siting Council public hearing. 
Thursday at 3 p.m. Miller Library Complex, 2901 Dixwell Avenue. (860) 827-2935. Hartford State Implementation Plan Revision Advisory Committee. Thursday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3027. Hartford Tourism Committee. Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. One Financial Plaza, 755 Main Street. (860) 256-2727. New Milford Connecticut Trustees Advisory Group. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Paul Richmond Citizens Center, 40 Main Street. (860) 424-3474. Rocky Hill Tourism Committee. Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Board Room, 999 West Street. (860) 256-2800.FAIRFIELD COUNTYBethel Public Utilities Commission. Monday at 4 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Bethel Public Site and Building Committee. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Danbury Common Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500. Darien Board of Finance budget meeting. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300. New Canaan Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 10 a.m. New Canaan Town Hall, 77 Main Street. (203) 972-2323. Redding Board of Assessment Appeals. Friday at 5 p.m. and Saturday at 9 a.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002. Trumbull Town Council. Monday at 8 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000. Trumbull Board of Finance public hearing. Saturday at 10 a.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000. HARTFORD COUNTYAvon Inland Wetlands Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300. Simsbury Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 7:30 a.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200. LITCHFIELD COUNTYBarkhamsted Inland Wetlands Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285. Bethlehem Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Bethlehem Town Hall, 36 Main Street South. (203) 266-7510. Colebrook Inland Wetlands Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Colebrook Town Hall, Colebrook Center. (860) 379-3359. Cornwall Inland Wetlands Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Cornwall Town Hall, 26 Pine Street. (860) 672-2709. Goshen Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Goshen Town Hall, 42 North Street. (860) 491-2308. Plymouth Conservation/Inland Wetlands Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001. Roxbury Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Roxbury Town Hall, 29 North Street. (860) 354-9938. Salisbury Historic District Commission. Wednesday at 8:30 a.m. Salisbury Town Hall, 27 Main Street. (860) 435-5182. Washington Parks and Recreation Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Washington Town Hall, 2 Bryan Plaza. (860) 868-2259. Watertown Town Council. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Watertown High School, 324 French Street. (860) 945-5230. Woodbury Planning Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144. MIDDLESEX COUNTYEssex Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340. Portland Inland Wetlands Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Portland Library, 20 Freestone Avenue. (860) 342-6770. NEW HAVEN COUNTYMiddlebury Board of Finance. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Middlebury Town Hall, 1212 Whittemore Road. (203) 758-2557. Woodbridge Plan and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Woodbridge Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400. NEW LONDON COUNTYSprague Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Sprague Town Hall, 1 Main Street. (860) 822-8075. Montville Zoning Board of Appeals. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311. TOLLAND COUNTYAndover Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Old Firehouse, Center Street. (860) 742-7305. Stafford Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 7 p.m. Stafford Town Hall, 1 Main Street. (860) 684-1765.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WETLANDS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY SITING (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



79 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Inmates Will Replace Wary Migrants in Colorado Fields

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

DATELINE: DENVER, March 3 

 BODY:
As migrant laborers flee Colorado because of tough new immigration restrictions, worried farmers are looking to prisoners to fill their places in the fields.
 In a pilot program run by the state Corrections Department, supervised teams of low-risk inmates beginning this month will be available to harvest the swaths of sweet corn, peppers and melons that sweep the southeastern portion of the state.
Under the program, which has drawn criticism from groups concerned about immigrants' rights and from others seeking changes in the criminal justice system, farmers will pay a fee to the state, and the inmates, who volunteer for the work, will be paid about 60 cents a day, corrections officials said. 
 Concerned about the possible shortage of field labor, Dorothy B. Butcher, a state representative from Pueblo and a supporter of the program, said, ''The workers on these farms do the weeding, the harvesting, the storing, everything that comes with growing crops for the market.'' 
 ''If we can't sustain our work force, we're going to be in trouble,'' said Ms. Butcher, a Democrat.
 The program will make its debut in Pueblo County, where farmers have been hit hard by the labor shortage. Frank Sobolik, director of a Colorado State University extension program that works with farmers in Pueblo County, said he expected that about half of the 300 migrant workers employed by area farms might not return this season. 
 ''There's a feeling, a perception that these laborers won't be back because it's safer for them to find work in other states,'' Mr. Sobolik said. ''The farmers are really concerned. These are high-value crops we're talking about here with a high labor requirement.'' 
 Last year, the Colorado General Assembly passed tough legislation that included giving local law enforcement broader powers to check immigration status and restricting access to social services for workers without proper documentation.
 The Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition estimates that there are 150,000 illegal immigrants in Colorado, many of them involved in agriculture. Migrant workers typically travel here from Mexico, Texas and New Mexico for the crop season, where their labor can last from May through the late fall, before returning home to their families. But those numbers could soon be reduced drastically, as workers who are in the country illegally are unwilling to risk exposing their status. 
 Joe Pisciotta Jr., who owns a 700-acre produce farm in Pueblo County, said he had about 20 workers and expected to lose half of them. Mr. Pisciotta, a third-generation farmer, worried that such a reduction would undercut his ability to supply buyers with the watermelons, onions and pumpkins he grows. 
 ''It's very frustrating,'' he said. ''I'm definitely going to lose customers. We've never had an issue like this. With all of us trying to get enough workers on our farms, I'm worried this is going to turn into farmer against farmer.'' 
 Although chain gangs and prison farms have long been staples of American correctional culture, the concept of inmates working on private farms is unusual. But there are signs that other states are following suit. The Iowa Department of Corrections is considering a similar program because of a migrant labor shortage in that state.
 Several Iowa farmers called recently to request inmates in lieu of migrant workers, said Roger Baysden, the director of the state's prison industries program. One farmer asked for as many as 200 inmates, Mr. Baysden said. 
 In Colorado, Ms. Butcher said she hoped that the program, which could send up to 100 inmates to Pueblo County farmers, would remedy a situation that might otherwise turn into an economic disaster. 
 Immigrant rights group, however, said the Colorado program was myopic. 
 ''Many immigrants are leaving Colorado for other states that will actually embrace their contributions as good citizens and hard workers,'' said Julien Ross, state coordinator for the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition. ''This exodus from Colorado has profound negative consequences on our economy and the very fabric of our society.'' 
 Mr. Ross said his group was organizing a weeklong boycott of Colorado businesses beginning March 25 to demonstrate the workers' impact on the regional economy. 
 A group calling for changes in sentencing, the Colorado Criminal Justice Reform Coalition, is also uneasy about the program. The group views the inmates' pay as problematic. 
 ''This feels like the re-invention of the plantation,'' said Christie Donner, the group's executive director. ''You have a captive labor force essentially working for their room and board in order to benefit the employer. This isn't a job training program. It's an exploitative program.'' 
 But Ari Zavaras, executive director of the Colorado Department of Corrections, said the merit of a hard day's work outdoors was invaluable to an inmate. 
 ''They won't be paid big bucks, but we're hoping this will help our inmates pick up significant and valuable job skills,'' Mr. Zavaras said. ''We're also assisting farmers who, if they don't get help, are facing an inability to harvest their crops.''
 With the start of the farming season looming, Colorado's farmers are scrambling to figure out which crops to sow and in what quantity. Some are considering turning to field corn, which is mechanically harvested. And they are considering whether they want to pay for an urban inmate who could not single out a ripe watermelon or discern between a weed and an onion plant. 
 ''This is not a cure-all,'' Mr. Pisciotta said. ''What our farm laborers do is a skill. They're born with it, and they're good at it. It's not an easy job.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Pisciotta Jr., a farmer in Pueblo County, is concerned about finding enough migrant workers under Colorado's tougher immigration laws. (Photo by Tom Kimmell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); MIGRANT WORKERS (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PRISONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); LEGISLATION (67%) Agriculture; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Prisons and Prisoners; Labor; Migrant Labor

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%) Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition

PERSON: Dan Frosch

GEOGRAPHIC: PUEBLO, CO, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



80 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Fears for a Dam's Safety Put a Tourist Area on Edge

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA and BOB DRIEHAUS

DATELINE: BURKESVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
Below the Wolf Creek Dam, which holds back the biggest manmade lake east of the Mississippi, residents joke that they are not worried about a breach but sleep in life jackets, just in case. 
 Above the dam, they jest that since the Army Corps of Engineers labeled the structure ''high risk'' in January and lowered the water in Lake Cumberland to 40 feet below its summer level, residents now have some of the best ''mud front'' property in the country.
 A nervous sense of humor has taken hold in this area, famed for its trout fishing and million-dollar houseboats, as worries grow about the dam, a mile-long concrete and earthen behemoth that is leaking and showing signs of age. 
 ''That's a lot of water,'' said Keith Riddle, the mayor and barber here, about the trillion gallons of water 10 miles upstream sitting behind the dam, enough to cover the state of Kentucky to a depth of three inches. Mr. Riddle described the town's four-hour evacuation plan, the sirens being installed in the area and the several thousand weather radios being distributed to warn residents of an emergency. 
 In Nashville, about 280 miles down the Cumberland River, state and federal officials this month began holding weekly public meetings to quell fears after the corps said a worst-case rupture of the dam could inundate that city's downtown, causing more than $2 billion in damage.
 Upstream, local operators of power, sewage and water treatment plants are warning of potential regional blackouts and service stoppages because many of their intake pipes running to the lake are now nearly above water. Tourism officials are bracing for the economic impact of the lowered lake on a $150 million boating, fishing and vacation industry that draws more than five million visitors annually.
 ''All we're doing is trying to keep the boats afloat,'' said Arlie Baker, 69, standing near his boating club's ramp, one of the 40 of 48 on the lake left high and dry. 
 The situation is yet another unforeseen consequence of Hurricane Katrina. Corps officials said that while the aging dam's problems went back 40 years, the corps' determination of acceptable risk had changed because of lessons learned from the levee failures in New Orleans. Alarm was also heightened after outside engineers concluded that the risk of failure was much higher than the corps had originally stated.
 ''We've got a lot of work ahead of us,'' said Bill Peoples, a spokesman for the corps office in Nashville that runs the Wolf Creek Dam. Mr. Peoples said the dam was one of about 610 the corps oversaw, many of which were completed in the 1940s and 50s and were engineered to last about 50 years. Five other dams are ranked at the highest alert level, he said. 
 Completed by the corps in 1952, Wolf Creek Dam has deteriorated as water has seeped beneath the dam through the porous limestone eroding its foundation.
 Mr. Peoples said it would take $309 million and about seven years to install a thick concrete wall in the earthen section of the dam, fill holes with grout and control erosion under the dam. 
 Though Lake Cumberland is renowned for its striper, bass, walleye and crappie fishing, it is the trout anglers who are most worried about the effect of the falling water level on fishing. Each year, the federal trout hatchery just below the dam produces more than a million trout, with about 825,000 making up the primary source for Kentucky lakes and streams and the rest going to Cherokee tribal lands in North Carolina and waters in northern Georgia. 
 If it rains too much, dam officials will have to keep releasing water to hold levels steady, which would change the temperature and oxygen levels downstream and could devastate the hatchery's fish.
 ''Really, in our wildest dreams, we never thought it would get like this,'' said David Hicks, the commodore of the Somerset Boat Club, as he surveyed the muck surrounding stranded storage lockers and picnic tables that sat atop a small marooned dock.
 Jeff Cress at Lee's Ford Marina said the rumors about the dam's problems might actually be the biggest threat to the economy of the region. 
 ''You have people up in Cincinnati thinking this lake is drained,'' Mr. Cress said, alluding to the legions of Ohio vacationers who have regularly visited the lake. Local officials have emphasized that even at its current level, the lake was still one of the biggest in the state. 
 Seated with friends in a log cabin several miles downriver from the dam, Willis McClure said he was asked by dam officials to collect the phone numbers of residents who lived nearest the dam. As Mr. McClure's friends joked that he took the job to ensure his name was at the top of the list, he explained that having lived next to the dam all his life, he was confident in its strength. 
 Others were less so. 
 ''I've had residents calling with their cars already packed because they thought the dam was going to break any day,'' said Mr. Riddle, the Burkesville mayor.
 Though worried about the cost of repairs, Shannon Thompson, a regular boater here, said local residents, many of whom live on remote farms accessed by roads that frequently washed out, were used to coping with the elements. 
 ''Around here,'' Mr. Thompson said, ''the typical response to ''see you tomorrow'' is ''Lord willing and if the creek don't rise.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A grouping of pictures on Sunday with an article about fears for the safety of the Wolf Creek Dam on Lake Cumberland in South Central Kentucky carried an erroneous credit for the photograph of Willis McClure, who lives near the dam. The photographer was Alan Poizner for The New York Times, not Josh Anderson of The Times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though Lee's Ford Marina is still in business, marina operators are concerned that potential tourists may think otherwise.
Willis McClure, who lives just below the dam, was asked by officials to collect the phone numbers of those who would be in the path of a flood.
 The Army Corps of Engineers has dropped the water level in Lake Cumberland, and intends to keep it there out of concern over Wolf Creek Dam. (Photographs by Josh Anderson for The New York Times)Map of Kentucky highlighting Burkesville and Wolf Creek Dam. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); LAKES (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); ARMIES (78%); RIVERS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (75%); SPORT FISHING (75%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); MAYORS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); HURRICANES (71%); WEATHER (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (63%); WATER QUALITY (50%) Electric Light and Power; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Dams and Dikes; Floods

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%) Army Corps of Engineers

PERSON: Ian Urbina

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Burkesville (Ky); Lake Cumberland (Kentucky); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



81 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 4617 words

HEADLINE: Ryan Howard, No Asterisk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE; Michael Sokolove is a frequent contributor to Play.

 BODY:
What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in slow motion, and you start your swing with a short stride, a subtle shift of weight and a powerful forward thrust of the hips. Your hands follow and then, finally, the barrel of the bat comes whipping through the hitting zone and -- crack! -- connects with the ball, sending it on a majestic arc into the upper deck.
 Just once, right? To be that most American of sports icons: the Slugger. 
Now, here is Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia Phillies on Sept. 3, 2006. He is a baby in baseball years, still in his first full big-league season, but a man-child at the plate: 6-foot-4, 250-plus pounds and big all over. He has biceps that it would take two large hands to fully encircle, thick-muscled forearms and -- more noticeable in the locker room than on the field, where he wears a baggy uniform top -- a surprisingly ample midsection. Howard is Ruthian, only bigger. Even his round, expressive face -- quick to break into a smile, more open and inviting than the typical impassive countenance of the big-time pro athlete -- seems extra large.
 He takes his place in the left batter's box at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, a hitter's paradise -- not that the dimensions of a ballpark matter much to him. Legend has it that Howard hit his first 400-foot home run at age 12, a blast that rocketed over an outfield fence and smacked against the side of a Red Lobster restaurant.
 On this Sunday afternoon, the opposing pitcher is Tim Hudson of the Atlanta Braves, a veteran with stuff that is more clever than overpowering. Hudson's pitches have what is called late movement -- they sink, dart and sail, leaving hitters waving at air or topping harmless ground balls.
 Howard, batting cleanup, leads off the bottom of the second inning. He has, at this point, 49 home runs, an astonishing number for early September. He has already surpassed the team record for home runs in a season, held by Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt, and he is two away from Ralph Kiner's mark for second-year players, set in 1947. (Howard became a full-time big leaguer in July 2005.)
 The act of hitting a baseball is an energy transfer: from the body to the bat to the ball. Just before Hudson rocks into his wind-up, Howard, a lefty, uses his right hand to point his 34-ounce bat at a 45-degree angle directly over the pitcher's head. This is a timing device, although, as Howard has become one of the game's most prodigious home-run hitters, it can easily be taken as a boast. Follow the angle of the bat and it suggests a trajectory straight out over the center-field fence.
 He brings the bat back as Hudson readies, grips it with both hands and cocks his left (back) elbow. His focus now is on ''staying quiet,'' as he puts it -- being still. He wants no energy to leak out until it can be put to its proper use. His knees are flexed, his weight set back in his stance. Only his wrists are moving, just slightly, causing the top of the bat to wave like a flag in a limp breeze.
 The first pitch is a slider, bearing in on Howard's shoe tops. He explodes out of his stance and brings the barrel of the bat down solidly on the ball -- sending a towering drive over the right-center-field wall. Home run No. 50.
 Hudson stands at the back of the mound and looks toward the outfield long after the ball has cleared the wall. He stares at the replay on the scoreboard, as if thinking to himself, He hit that pitch where?
 Second at-bat: Hudson throws his first pitch near Howard's head, which he casually avoids by leaning back. ''No big deal,'' Howard tells me later. ''You kind of have to expect that.'' After a foul ball, he sends Hudson's third offering -- a fat pitch about belt high -- deep over the center-field wall, in the same general direction as the first one, only quite a bit farther. Home run No. 51.
 Third at-bat: With the count at one ball and two strikes Hudson throws a sinker that veers low and away, a pitch that is meant to tempt Howard to swing at something he can't reach -- or, if he does, can't hit solidly. Howard extends his massive arms and hits a line drive to left field, which clears the wall nearly as quickly as a spectator can locate it with his eyes. Home run No. 52.
 Three at-bats. Three home runs.
 Out on the mound, Hudson looks more bemused than angry. He had put that last pitch right where he intended. ''You kind of scratch your head after that,'' he tells reporters gathered at his locker after the game. ''What the hell are you going to do next?''
 Ryan Howard felt a surge of pleasure when he connected on those three swings. He heard the crowd's roar, knew for sure that the second two balls would clear the outfield walls. (The first just cleared the fence, and Howard had taken off hard toward first base out of the batter's box.) But there was a lack of actual physical sensation, or at least one that is easily described -- that weird nothingness of hitting a ball, with force and perfect timing, right on the sweet spot of a baseball bat.
 It is an odd neurological loop: job well done, but you know it only because there's no unpleasant message to the contrary. ''You feel a lot more in your hands if the pitch gets in on you and busts you in the handle,'' Howard says. ''It stings. But when you catch it square, it doesn't seem like you feel it as much.''
 Last season, Howard had 58 home runs, a total exceeded by only five men in baseball history -- Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Roger Maris and Babe Ruth. Twenty-eight of Howard's home runs either tied the game or put the Phillies ahead, and he knocked in a major-league-leading 149 runs -- including 42 in August, the most r.b.i. by a player in a single month in 34 years. He was the National League player of the month in both August and September, and after the season, he was voted the league's Most Valuable Player.
 As every baseball fan knows, the game is awash in statistics, some more telling than others. One esoteric stat is particularly enlightening in Howard's case: his home-run-to-fly-ball ratio of 39.5 percent. What that means is that of every 10 fair balls he hits in the air, about 4 end up as home runs. The player with the next highest ratio last year, Travis Hafner of the Cleveland Indians, had a ratio of 30.2.
 There is a feast-or-famine aspect to Howard's hitting: he strikes out a lot -- 181 times last season, the second most in the majors -- so he doesn't put as many balls in play as others do in the same number of at-bats. But as his teammate Aaron Rowand says: ''When he hits it, he hits it. Ryan doesn't hit a lot of bloopers.''
 The majority of Howard's home runs went to left or center field, the mark of a hitter who is powerful enough not to have to pull balls to reach the seats, and several landed in places rarely reached by batted balls. Last April in Philadelphia, Howard hit a dead-center-field home run that was measured at 496 feet.
 It is impossible, of course, to think about power hitting these days without wondering about performance-enhancing drugs. Bonds, McGwire and Sosa all played in what is now commonly called baseball's Steroid Era, and suspicion has fallen on each of them. On the subject of sports and chemical enhancement, the first rule is never to assume guilt -- or innocence. Surprises lurk. But Howard, big from the womb, a lifelong slugger, is generally assumed around baseball to be clean. (Howard is subject to Major League Baseball's drug-testing policy, which calls for players to be tested for steroids, amphetamines and certain other substances once in spring training and at least one other time during the season. He was also tested in the minor leagues.)
 In mid-September, a ball hit by Howard at Minute Maid Park in Houston caromed off the glove of a 10-year-old fan in the left-field seats and fell back into the outfield. Television replays clearly showed that it should have been called a home run, but the third-base umpire ruled the ball in play. After the game, Astros first baseman Lance Berkman had an interesting reaction, telling reporters, ''I hope it doesn't cost him the steroid-free home run record.''
 It didn't. Howard would have fallen short of Maris's 61 home runs, anyway -- mainly because he became so terrifying to opposing managers that they started walking him at every possible opportunity. He was second in the majors with 37 intentional walks, several of them issued in situations that rarely call for such a move.
 For example, in a late-September game, Frank Robinson, then managing the Washington Nationals, twice ordered Howard to be walked in extra innings -- once with the bases empty and two outs, another time with a runner on first who then moved into scoring position as a potential game-winning run. After a game the night before, during which Robinson challenged Howard in a key spot, Robinson told me: ''Every hitter has vulnerabilities. No reason not to attack them.'' When I asked him the next night why he seemed to lose courage, he said: ''Didn't want to press my luck. Ryan is a very strong young man.''
 Physicists who have studied hitting toss around terms like ''bat speed,'' ''torque'' and ''rotational mechanics.'' It is fair to say that strength generally promotes bat speed and home-run power. Howard comes from a family of big people and, by appearance, is what used to be called ''country strong.''
 Howard and I met one day near his off-season home, in suburban St. Louis, amid a landscape of tract houses and what looked like an endless expanse of strip shopping centers and chain restaurants. He had just finished one of his three-hour, five-times-a-week workouts, which consist mostly of weight training. He had been dieting, too, eating more vegetables and fewer fried foods. 
 We took a seat at the restaurant he chose, a place called O'Charley's, which featured an oversize menu of American favorites. When his grilled chicken was put down in front of him, he looked displeased and immediately lifted it with his fork. ''I sure hope they put my mashed potatoes under there,'' he said. When he came upon a mound of them, he brightened up. He continued stabbing at a bowl of tortilla chips, loading them up with salsa. ''Do me a favor,'' he told me. ''Eat some of these. Help me out. I'm trying to be good.''
 Howard's power surge at the end of last season brought about something unprecedented in recent baseball history. By July, the Phillies had surrendered the season -- and sort of the next one, too. The general manager, Pat Gillick, had traded off important players -- the starting right fielder and third baseman, a starting pitcher, a key left-handed relief pitcher -- and told the team's fans not to expect the Phillies to be contenders until 2008. Such housecleaning happens every season in baseball: lesser teams build for the future by trading veterans for prospects.
 What doesn't happen is what the Phillies did next, which was to climb back into the playoff race, largely on the back of Howard, who in the season's second half hit .355 with 30 home runs and 78 r.b.i. By August, Gillick had reversed course and was acquiring veteran talent for the stretch run. (The Phillies were finally eliminated from the wild-card playoff spot on the last weekend of the season.)
 Howard, respectful of baseball custom, strives for modesty. Understatement is a much-admired quality in baseball. When I talked to him about the home-run-to-fly-ball ratio, he had no idea what his was (or that anyone even kept such a stat). But when I asked him to guess how many of his fly balls cleared the fences, his answer seemed like a true measure of his estimation of his own abilities. ''I don't know,'' he said. ''Six out of 10? Seven out of 10?''
 In some ways, Howard is the anti-Barry Bonds, who looms over the coming baseball season like an unwelcome guest at a dinner party. Bonds, an outfielder with the San Francisco Giants, is 22 home runs from surpassing Hank Aaron's record of 755. For a great many baseball fans, his grim pursuit will be a cause for dismay more than celebration. Even before the steroid allegations, Bonds was one of the game's sour personalities, unloved by fans outside his home city and often reviled by his own teammates.
 Howard, by contrast, is cordial with the press, well liked in the clubhouse and much more likely to offer fans a smile and an autograph than a scowl. He arrives early for games and can usually be found with his big frame folded into an easy chair or couch in front of a large TV, watching videos with teammates. He gets high marks for his ''demeanor.'' Baseball people use the word constantly, and it serves as a catchall for many things: a player's work habits; his ability to stay on a steady emotional keel whether he has hit a couple of home runs or struck out four times; his relationships among teammates and coaches.
 ''Ryan is just a very easy guy to be around,'' the Phillies' manager, Charlie Manuel, says. ''You couldn't ask for a guy with a better demeanor.''
 Howard, though, does share one similarity with Bonds, a significant one within the context of baseball's changing sociology: he is an African-American player at a moment when the number of American-born blacks in the major leagues has dropped strikingly. In 2005, the National League champion Houston Astros had no black players on their World Series roster, the first time that was the case for a team in half a century. At one point last season, six teams in Major League Baseball did not have a single black player on their rosters. Below the professional level, there are so few blacks in the game that many of the nation's historically black colleges are fielding baseball teams made up mostly of white and Hispanic players. (The Washington Post reported that Coppin State University in Baltimore had 30 white male students enrolled in 2006; roughly half of them were on the baseball team.)
 Black players now make up about 9 percent of big-league rosters -- down from 19 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1975. Hispanics, at 29 percent, have become the dominant minority in the game.
 So how did Ryan Howard become a baseball player? Part of the answer is that he comes from where many of the game's white players do -- a largely white suburb. He grew up in Wildwood, Mo., on the outer edge of St. Louis's western sprawl. His mother, Cheryl, now retired, worked in marketing, and his father, Ron, is a manager for I.B.M. He has three siblings, including a fraternal twin, all of whom are college-educated professionals.
 Ron and Cheryl Howard don't consider themselves particularly athletic. ''I could play everything, just not well,'' Ron told me. Cheryl Howard added: ''I'm from the pre-Title IX days, so I didn't get a chance to play organized sports. But my father played sandlot baseball with Willie Mays in Birmingham, so we've decided Ryan's baseball talent comes through my side.''
 When Ryan Howard was 2, his father walked into a room where a TV was showing a baseball game and saw his son intent on the action and swinging a little red bat. ''It was such a natural swing,'' Ron Howard says. ''At that moment I knew he'd be some kind of baseball player. How far? I didn't know. But that feeling came over me.''
 To be blessed with hand-eye coordination and the strength to mash a baseball 500 feet ought to fill a man with self-assurance. But pro sports are full of gifted players with cracks in their psyches who on some career-killing level do not fully believe in themselves. Howard's upbringing seems to have imbued him with a sense of self that extends well beyond his abilities on the ball field.
 As his parents describe it, their household was a mix of old-time Southern values and middle-class aspiration. ''All our kids were taught to say 'Yes, sir,' 'Yes, ma'am' and so on,'' Ron Howard says. ''We valued hard work and taught them: believe in oneself, believe in each other and believe in the Almighty.''
 There were, as well, some quirkier rules. For example, Ron taught everyone to drive using a standard shift, which he considers an essential life skill, and made them take their driving tests in a car with a stick shift. ''No, they weren't pleased about it,'' he recalls, ''but it was a binary situation. You do it this way if you want to drive -- or the other way if you don't want to drive.''
 Howard played a lot of soccer as a kid. He was a good high school basketball player. He also played the trombone in the school band. He played a little football, but his mother insisted he give it up because she believed he risked injury by being such a large target.
 Ryan Howard says that he was one of just a handful of black players on most of his youth baseball teams. His sports heroes were Barry Bonds, Ken Griffey Jr., Tony Gwynn. ''I guess you can throw Michael in there,'' he adds, meaning Michael Jordan, but he makes it sound like an obligation. He was focused on baseball.
 In Philadelphia, Howard faces the particular challenge of playing for a team with famously demanding (and sometimes abusive) fans -- and in a city with a particularly shameful history of mistreating black baseball players. The Phillies were the last team in the National League to sign a black player -- in 1957, a full decade after Jackie Robinson's debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Robinson himself suffered such abuse from the Phillies that he later wrote that they were ''a Northern team that I had come to associate with the Deep South.''
 Other than Howard, the Phillies have had just one black superstar: Dick Allen, then known as ''Richie,'' a fearsome slugger but a rebel and a turbulent soul who endured such mind-bending abuse from the home crowd that after six years in Philadelphia he was scratching cryptic messages with his spikes in the infield dirt. (Among them, ''Mom,'' ''Boo'' and ''Oct. 2,'' the date of the last game of the 1969 season.)
 Sometimes, though, a certain athlete and a city just seem like a good match. Howard drives a GMC Yukon with 100,000-plus miles and is not much for fancy clothes or late nights. His Everyman persona has appeal in a city where even white-collar, well-heeled season-ticket holders are apt to describe themselves as blue-collar fans. During the season, he lives in a condominium in South Philadelphia not far from the ballpark.
 ''I'm cool with everybody,'' says Howard, who is single and has a 6-year-old son from a former relationship. ''The fans have been nothing but nice to me. I'll walk around the city and people will come up to me and say 'Hi' or 'Keep up the good work' or whatever, and I'll stop and talk to them.''
 Baseball is the most hidebound of American sports. It manufactures and honors tradition, myth and superstition. And it probably also has a greater share of ignorance than other sports. The entire movement toward once-obscure and newly developed statistics, after all -- begun by Bill James and others, some of them now in the employ of big-league teams -- came about because professional baseball people drew erroneous conclusions from the same old numbers they loved so much.
 A certain amount of ignorance, on the part of baseball executives, most likely impeded Ryan Howard's baseball progress. A man his size is not easily overlooked. But his career trajectory strongly suggests that his talent was underappreciated. He was not a coveted prospect out of high school and went to Southwest Missouri State to play baseball. After the Phillies selected him in the fifth round of the 2001 draft, he began a slow, four-and-a-half-season climb through the minor leagues, making stops in five different minor-league towns and hitting for power and a decent average in each of them.
 In 2004, splitting time between Double A and Triple A, he hit 46 home runs and knocked in 131 runs, the kind of performance that ought to bring about a promotion to the big leagues -- especially considering that Howard was already 24. But the Phillies had a veteran at first base, Jim Thome, to whom they had paid millions as a free agent, and Howard began the 2005 season in Scranton, Pa., back in Triple A.
 Thome was signed after Howard had already been a Phillies minor leaguer for two seasons; another team, recognizing what it had in Howard, might have spent its free-agent money elsewhere to avoid a logjam at first base. But the Phillies, with no postseason appearances since 1993, have not been the canniest of franchises.
 From his parents, who lived through the civil rights struggle in Birmingham and often talked to their children about that era, Howard already knew something about patience and perspective. He didn't much like being stuck in the minor leagues, but knew it wasn't the worst thing that could happen to a person. ''I learned what I could,'' he says of his years in the minors. His father says: ''We didn't see a frustration on Ryan's part. We saw a strong determination.''
 After Thome suffered a season-ending injury, Howard finally secured a full-time spot with the Phillies in 2005 -- and hit 22 home runs and earned the National League Rookie of the Year award while playing just a little over half a season. A player who can accomplish that at age 25 -- then follow it up with the season Howard had last year -- almost certainly could have held his own in the big leagues a couple of years earlier. And Howard's extended time in the minors cost him money. His salary last season was $355,000, a pittance by baseball's current economics. He is still a year from arbitration, and can't become a free agent until after the 2011 season, when he will be 32. He has not publicly made an issue of his contract, but recently he switched to a more prominent agent.
 In one sense, though, Howard was probably lucky to end up with the Phillies, whose manager, Charlie Manuel, while not much admired for his in-game strategy, is widely considered to have a deep knowledge of hitting. Howard was still in the low minor leagues when Manuel, then an assistant in the Phillies' front office, first saw him bat. Manuel noticed something unusual about Howard's style: he stood way off the plate, and his posture was oriented toward foul ground in left field, like a golfer who compensates for a wicked slice by aiming wide of the fairway.
 In Howard's case, he did not like to handle pitches inside, in on his hands, and his strength still allowed him to hit outside pitches a long way. So he took a stance that forced pitchers to throw the ball about a foot inside the plate to jam him. Manuel saw Howard hit a home run to left field and concluded that because of the way he was standing, it was more like a center- or right-field home run -- he had to pull the ball just to keep it fair.
 ''We got him straightened out a little bit, so it wasn't so extreme,'' Manuel says. ''He was the type of kid you always could talk to.''
 All hitters, though, have a way they want to hit, a style that feels natural. Howard's left-field orientation is still a large part of his approach. When he hits the ball to the left of second base, he almost always lifts it, which is what pitchers specifically try to avoid with home-run hitters: fly balls. When he pulls the ball, he hits more ground balls and low line drives with top spin -- the type that do not carry over fences. ''The amazing thing is, even with all those home runs, Ryan's still learning to pull it,'' says Milt Thompson, the Phillies' hitting coach. ''When he learns to clear his hips out of there and get the ball in the air, you'll really see something.''
 Pitchers defeat hitters with good pitches, of course, but all hitters have a way they get themselves out, the most common being a lack of patience. Instead of hoarding their energy -- their ''load'' or ''power load,'' as it is called in baseball -- they commit to a swing too soon, particularly on off-speed pitches, and by the time the bat meets the ball they have expended much of their power.
 Howard is different. When he gets himself out, it is more often the result of an overabundance of patience. He lets the ball get too close to his body and does not get the barrel of the bat fully around it. ''It's unusual in any player, let alone a big strong kid just into the league,'' Manuel says. ''But that's why Ryan hits the ball the way he does. He's rarely out in front of where he wants to be. He's got his full load intact when he does make contact.''
 Howard takes a slight uppercut, quick and compact. ''Ted Williams used to say, The longer the arc, the farther the ball will go,'' Manuel says. ''I say, The longer the arc, the slower the swing. Ryan has all the power he needs with that shorter arc.''
 After Howard and I were finished eating at O'Charley's and the table was cleared, I unpacked my laptop and we watched a sort of greatest-hits collection, a compilation of his home runs that the Phillies had copied onto a DVD. He enjoyed it -- what player wouldn't? -- but what struck me was how much he remembered. He came to the plate 704 times last season and saw 2,859 pitches, yet now he recalled pitch sequences from months before. He doesn't keep a notebook, as some hitters do, but it seems he doesn't have to.
 ''This is a pretty good AB,'' he said as we watched him step in for his at-bat against the New York Mets' Guillermo Mota. ''He was mixing it up pretty good. Fastballs, change-ups, inside, outside.'' After eight pitches, including several foul balls, the count was full. Mota threw a change-up, and Howard barely managed to foul it off. ''That was a tough pitch -- nasty,'' he said. ''Here comes the fastball now.'' The next pitch was indeed a fastball, which Howard hit over the center-field fence for his 47th home run.
 Not surprisingly, considering he is the son of a computer programmer, Howard talks about hitting as if each at-bat is a problem to be solved: ''If the pitcher is one you've faced before, you have to be thinking, How did he try to get me out? He might try something different this time, but you have to have that in the back of your mind. Each at-bat and each pitch you have a game plan that comes about from processing all the information you have.''
 Mike Arbuckle, who is in charge of the Phillies' minor-league system, told me: ''Ryan has the aptitude and the intelligence to maximize all that natural ability he has. To be honest with you, there are more guys who aren't that way than are. And he also has the inner drive to want to apply all that intelligence, and that's not always the case, either.''
 The DVD included Howard's big game against Tim Hudson. After we watched the last home run, the line drive to left field, Howard said he would have had no idea, as he swung, that the pitch was outside. ''That's the point at which you can't be thinking about anything,'' he said. ''You have a game plan, but then it's instinct. You just see the pitch and go after it.''
 The camera followed Howard into the dugout after that last home run, then back out onto the top step, where he waved to acknowledge the home crowd's standing ovation. Together, we were watching him at a moment of maximum glory -- the Slugger in full -- but he seemed to want to deflect attention from himself, to display, as always, proper baseball demeanor.
 In the background, we caught a glimpse of Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins, who seemed to be laughing with a kind of wide-eyed, can-you-believe-this expression on his face. ''Look at Jimmy,'' Ryan Howard said, his own face breaking into a grin. ''He seems like he got a big kick out of that, doesn't he?''

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Stephen Wilkes)
 (Photo by Stephen Wilkes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (87%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); GEORGIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



82 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 5291 words

HEADLINE: Alle Montagne con Papa (To the Mountains, With the Old Man)

BYLINE: By CHIP BROWN; Chip Brown is the author of ''Good Morning Midnight'' and ''Afterwards, You're a Genius.''

 BODY:
1. ''If we're not careful,'' my brother, Toby, said as we loaded our bags into a taxi at Milan's Malpensa airport, ''this could end up being a story about emergency medical facilities in northern Italy.''
 My father smiled with forbearance refined over a lifetime of humoring wiseacre children. He'd jumped at the invitation to leave his three-stage care facility in North Carolina and join my brother and me for a week of skiing on the flanks of the Monte Rosa massif in the Italian Alps, but I could see he was anxious. The airline had lost his luggage and with it his blood pressure medicine and the stuff he took to help him sleep. And it had been four years since he last skied. He was 82, and his chronically romantic visions of what he might yet accomplish or still be able to do were foundering on physical ailments. A separated shoulder wouldn't heal. He was plagued by various joint and organ woes. He didn't like to be too far from a bathroom, a handrail or a dry martini. This would certainly be his last ski trip, closing a career that began in 1932, when he strapped on a pair of primitive boards and schussed a hill known as Linkety Blinks at the Montclair Golf Club in New Jersey. My mother was worried. ''Take care of my bear,'' she said. ''He's all I've got.'' 
Toby had already made a point of locating the nearest hospital, in the town of Borgosesia. We could see the Monte Rosa massif from the airport, a spectacular clutch of snowbound summits capped by the 15,204-foot Punta Dufour, the second highest peak in Western Europe.
 ''Alagna,'' I said to the driver.
 He nodded and commenced programming his dashboard G.P.S. From the airport, Alagna was supposed to be an easy hour-and-40-minute drive: west on a major highway, then north-northwest up the bending vineyard-strewn valley of the Sesia River.
 ''Alagna, Monte Rosa,'' I said again and pointed at the massif so there was no mistaking where we wanted to go. Perhaps he didn't believe us -- the ski season across Europe was melting under an unprecedented heat wave. The papers were saying it was the warmest winter in 1,250 years. 
 ''Monte Rosa,'' the driver said with patriotic fervor. And then, in the thrall of the alluring female voice on his G.P.S., he tacked off in the opposite direction. A clever local shortcut, perhaps? It took about an hour to realize we were badly off course, headed not for Alagna in the valley of the Sesia River but another town of the same name. (Don't ask me where it is.) We stopped three times for directions. We got on and off the same toll road half a dozen times. We followed narrow farm tracks along unflooded rice fields. We passed a mysterious walled village. As the G.P.S. siren offered lunatic directions -- Vada diritto! Uscita a sinistra! -- fog began to gather and the light began to fail. The trip took on the floating, purgatorial quality of a Samuel Beckett play.
 ''Are we looking for the hotel?'' my father asked as we wandered around an industrial area on the pan-flat Padan plains.
 I caught my brother's eye. For years, no Trivial Pursuit player in the family could approach Dad's knowledge of geography. Was his guidance system on the fritz, too?
 ''Dad, we're looking for a town up in the mountains, with snow.''
 ''That's right.''
 It was four hours later and pitch dark when we finally arrived in Alagna Valsesia, assured of our whereabouts as much by the pile of plowed snow in front of the hotel as by the sign outside the village.
 2. The plan, of course, was not just to ski in the ambience of old Europe, but to linger with the old man -- to play chess, and drink wine, and offer token opposition to his familiar rant that popular music since Jerome Kern and Cole Porter wasn't worth a damn. There is an elegiac undercurrent to almost everything we do together now. It goes with the territory, I guess. A frail pensioner with milky eyes and a head full of ghosts has usurped the vital, godlike figure of my boyhood. I know that one day my decline will disillusion my son in similar fashion. And yet the longing to protect and be protected is so instinctive that even in the most mundane moments, I catch my father looking for something of his prime for my sake, as I catch myself wanting to shore up mine for the sake of my son.
 In the morning we woke to the sound of rushing water and church bells. The three of us were sharing a raspberry-colored room at the Cristallo, a newly renovated (and, with its boutique decor, somewhat incongruous) four-star hotel beside the Sesia River. It was January, but the weather was more like a day in April: immaculate blue sky, temperatures in the high 40s. After breakfast, we went to rent skis at the only shop we could find in town that offered them. It was a half-mile hike down the main street, a narrow lane lined with barking dogs and crowing roosters. The damp air smelled of wood smoke and sap. A woman was leaning out the window of a villa, whacking a pillow. At the ski shop, we weren't asked to sign liability waivers. We plodded back up the hill, gear in tow, reanimating the dogs. Dad was winded; Toby took most of his load.
 Alagna has a population of about 400 and only a handful of hotels and restaurants. The village is strung along the west bank of the Sesia under the bell tower of St. Giovanni Battista, a Catholic church dating to 1511. It has vivid frescoes painted on the outside walls and a flat-screen monitor offering the latest weather forecast mounted on the side. (The parish priest is a passionate mountaineer with over 200 ascents of Monte Rosa.) 
 What draws skiers to Alagna is its proximity to some of the most exhilarating off-piste terrain in the world. What drew me was the sublime and storied landscape of the Alps. No other mountains, certainly not any in the United States, are so steeped in history or convey so much of our aesthetic and spiritual heritage. It is in contemplating the Alps, rather than, say, Interstate 70 from the chairlift at Vail, that one can, in Wordsworth's phrase, feed upon infinity. And for those who care about such things, Alagna is an anachronism -- as pristine an example of a traditional ski town as you'll find in Europe. Many of the houses are based on the centuries-old stone-and-wood designs of the Walser people, a High German-speaking population that began filtering into valleys south of Monte Rosa in the 12th century. You wouldn't think from the architecture that skiing and tourism had really eclipsed the old mainstays of farming and woodcutting.
 ''In the 1930's and 1940's, Alagna was the place where the high-society elite would come,'' said Simona de Simone, the owner of the Cristallo, which her parents acquired in the mid-1970's. ''In the 1970's and 80's, the national ski team used to come here to train on the glacier under Punta Indren in the summer. But for the last 20 years, Alagna has been hibernating.''
 Lately, real estate prices have begun to heat up, and other changes are in the works. A new lift under construction will open new terrain. A parking garage is being built next to the gondola. One of the old hotels on what's known as Hotel Square is being converted to condominiums. But there are no discos, no chain stores, no ersatz Alpine lodges. You can't find souvenir baseball caps that say ''Alagna.'' (I tried.) Petrus-swilling Russian billionaires prefer glitzier spots like Courchevel on the French side of the Alps. Alagna, when it has snow, caters to international powder hounds and weekending Italians. (It's a quick two-hour trip from downtown Milan unless your car is equipped with cutting-edge satellite guidance technology, in which case count on four.)
 As we lugged our gear back through town, we could see spindrift streaming off Punta Grober, the 11,476-foot peak that rises some 7,000 feet above the village at the head of the valley. Ridgeline larch and spruce trees were swaying wildly. Alagna is connected by a sprawling network of ski runs and lifts to towns in the two main Monte Rosa valleys to the west. But there is only one lift out of the village itself, a gondola situated almost as an afterthought at the end of a Dumpster-lined driveway. Lift tickets are a bargain at $45 a day, but when we got to the ticket window, it was closed. Too windy, we were told. Come back tomorrow.
 3. In the morning, Toby and I decided to head out by ourselves, promising Dad we would collect him at around 11:00, after we'd had a chance to reconnoiter. He seemed relieved. His luggage still hadn't arrived. He wanted to wash his underwear and go back to bed. He'd lain awake much of the night; he said that of late he'd been brooding about his life, his shortcomings as a professional writer, a husband and a father. And there was the additional agitation of the chess game the previous evening, when he'd blundered away a winning position and let me escape with a stalemate. By the time we left, he'd already fallen back asleep. He looked like a royal mummy with his arms crossed on his chest; only the rasp of breath signified his status among the living. 
 I had some anxieties of my own, mainly about keeping up with my brother. Toby is not only 10 years younger but lives at altitude, in Telluride, Colo., where he has skied close to 100 days a year for the last 17 years. He'd already logged a month on Colorado snow. I live at sea level and am lucky to ski once a year; the only training I'd done for this trip was to click on Alagna-related Web sites. On top of all that, Toby already knew the terrain, having skied Monte Rosa last year with his wife and two preteen sons during a family vacation to the winter Olympics in nearby Turin. 
 ''I can't believe how little snow there is,'' he said, pointing to a bare hill as we rode the gondola up. ''All this was covered last year. You couldn't see any of these rocks.'' (Later that day, he began checking Colorado snow reports online. ''Telluride just got 17 inches!'' he said.)
 From the gondola we walked to a double tram that whisked us on a heart-stopping ride over the Cimalegna cliffs and on up to Passo Salati. We were now almost 6,000 feet above Alagna amid a spectacular panorama of mountains. We took a run under the tram to the halfway loading station, where the trail's end was marked by a sign showing a skier tumbling off a cliff. The easy groomer seemed like something Dad would enjoy, assuming he spotted the sign. 
 We got on the tram again, rode back to the top and then turned west on groomed but slightly steeper trails that funneled us into the Gressoney Valley, where Toby had stayed last year in the town of Gressoney-St.-Jean. The valley was wider and more developed than Alagna. My thighs were burning from the ground we'd covered, and I was glad to rest on the two lifts that took us back up to Passo Salati. We cut around to a snowy off-piste area below the Col d'Olen -- on one of those rollicking luge-track traverses where the pain of falling is aggravated by the humiliation. The snow in the sunless couloir was dry and plentiful and proved to be some of the best we would have all week. But the run was exhaustingly long, and by the time we got to the tram station, we'd skied almost 9,000 vertical feet. My legs were ready for a three-stage care facility. We were still only halfway to Alagna, 2,700 feet below.
 ''Power through the pain,'' Toby said.
 The trail to the village was mostly a white ribbon of man-made snow winding through an autumnal tableau of dry pastures and leafless trees. The snow was leached out in places, exposing the dirt underneath. One steep stretch was so icy and skied out that even Toby seemed gripped as he clattered across it, like a moose on roller skates.
 ''No way Dad is coming down this,'' he said. 
 Dad was waiting for us when we got back to the hotel. Toby had outfitted him with a gray parka, blue wind pants, a Norwegian wool hat and goggles. He helped him into the rented ski boots like a squire buckling armor on a knight. 
 And up we went. I glanced at my father as we rose out of the valley into the realm of the white peaks. Was he feeding on infinity or fretting about his still-undelivered suitcase? I couldn't read his face behind the goggles, and he wasn't saying.
 A writer I know had a friend who once told him a man's life could be divided into four stages: world, village, garden, bed. When we threw down our skis at Passo Salati, the world was at our feet. 
 After giving some remedial counsel about clearing the snow off his boots, Toby snapped Dad into the bindings. He poled over to the top of the run. Bodwitch it was called; facile was the grade. The gentle entry pitch could be negotiated with a turn or two before it flattened out -- that was the pattern of the whole run, a series of facile steps. The only easy trail on the mountain, from what I could tell. 
 I dipped down to the flat part to wait. When I looked back, Dad was on the ground and Toby was bending over him, lifting him under the arms the way he had reset his own two boys a decade ago when he was teaching them to ski, and the way last winter I had lifted my son, Oliver, out of a powder bank, laughing because he looked as if he had battered himself in flour, and then biting my lip because his pride was wounded and he was crying, and it moved me almost like nothing else to see how much it mattered to him that he shine in my eyes. It seemed like yesterday that Dad had gathered all of us in Telluride for a Christmas holiday and was himself confidently carving turns down See Forever. I could go back even further to those Precambrian times in the 1950s, when my mittens were connected by strings and Dad was stemming down Bromley Mountain in Vermont in leather lace-up boots and aluminum skis as long as rain gutters, or that time before I was born when he was a young reporter at The Rutland Herald, writing stories like the one about the local dog who tried three times to commit suicide, and he got to ski free at Pico Peak -- Dad, not the dog -- because the company that ran the lifts liked reporters. . . .
 And now here he was, on a holiday from a house in North Carolina where if you didn't pull a cord in the morning, a medical SWAT team would burst through the door, greasing defibrillator paddles. Here he was, under way at last in the Italian Alps, dropping through the fall line and picking up speed and leaning into a turn, his first in four years, just like the old days. And then he fell. His skis skidded out from under him. He went down like someone sliding into home in a softball game. He went down hard in the middle of a slope where nobody fell, not even the little kids skiing on leashes. We watched for a moment in a kind of shock, my brother and I. Dad planted his poles. He tried to get up, but he didn't have the strength. That's what sealed it. I looked at Toby and we knew it wasn't going to work. It would take us all day to get Dad down. Facile was too hard. My throat closed up; I had to wipe my eyes. I found myself remembering that Gerard Manley Hopkins poem about sorrow that I learned in grade school when it meant zilch, the one that begins: Margaret, are you grieving/ Over Goldengrove unleaving? How did it end? 
 It is the blight man was born for,/ It is Margaret you mourn for.
 Toby hopped out of his skis and went to where Dad was sitting on the snow. Suddenly-Mortal Margaret removed hers too and clambered up to him. Dad seemed bewildered more than anything else. Not to be able to do something that had been second nature for so long. . . .
 Toby got him out of the bindings and helped him to his feet. 
 ''Dad, I think we better not try it.''
 He didn't argue.
 He seemed so unnaturally passive and tractable that I wondered for a moment if I might get him to agree that nothing in Cole Porter's songbook rivaled the artistry of Grand Funk Railroad, not to mention Toby's onetime sine qua non band, Haircut 100.
 ''I don't have any balance,'' he said.
 Toby took his arm and helped him up the hill. It was all of 20 vertical feet my father had logged on his last run, but when he got back to flat ground he seemed completely drained. I could only imagine the miles of territory he'd covered in his mind.
 It was for just these moments that alcohol must have been invented. Hoping to leaven the funereal mood, I suggested that Dad take the lift from Passo Salati down to Gabiet on the Gressoney side of the watershed and meet us for lunch. We stowed his skis in the tram shed, saw him to the gondola, then whipped down the run and were waiting for him when he stepped off at the Gabiet station, a patch of pale forehead showing between his goggles and hat.
 ''My kids call that goggle gap,'' Toby said. ''It's uncool.'' 
 Dad fixed his hat. We clumped up a hill to Alpenhutte Lys and found a table in the sun amid a gorgeous backdrop of couloirs, rocky bowls and ridges. After some lasagna, salad and bread washed down with Moretti beer, Dad's spirits perked up. He studied a quotation attributed to Goethe that was written on the wooden balcony, drawing on the Latin he had taken back in the days he was schussing Linkety Blinks.
 ''What does it say, Dad?''
 '' 'If you want to know the Almighty God you must walk in the mountains.' ''
 How wise of Goethe not to mention anything about skiing.
 So we walked in the mountains, but only to get back to the almighty Gabiet gondola. As we rode up, Toby carefully went over the rest of the segments of Dad's return trip to Alagna, explaining that he had to carry his skis onto the tram and then load them in the rack on the Alagna gondola, and then collect them when he exited at the base. He could leave them by the ticket office. Toby would bring them back to the hotel. O.K.? O.K. We said goodbye. I had to power through the pain again, watching him struggle over to the tram in his awkward ski boots. 
 And then I was distracted by the task of not killing myself on the slick traverse over to the good snow below the Col d'Olen.
 When we got back to Alagna, I slumped on the steps leading down to our hotel, while Toby, who could still walk, went to retrieve Dad's skis, hoping they were where they were supposed to be. When he came back five minutes later, he had them on his shoulder. 
 ''The Eagle has landed,'' he said.
 Later Dad told us that on the way down a man in his 60's asked him, ''How old can you be and still go skiing?''
 Later we heard about one of the local Alagna guides who'd been spotted climbing Monte Rosa at age 94.
 4. Later Dad said he might take a lesson, even though Toby had already returned his skis.
 Later -- and this is the thing that really got me -- Dad apologized for letting us down.
 I half-wished for his sake that Alagna had the diversion of a disco or some Russian billionaires with a retinue of snow bunnies, or at least a shop with a copy of The International Herald Tribune for the old newspaperman. There wasn't much to do in the day if you weren't skiing. Even then, given how the glories of the terrain were circumscribed by the lack of snow, the skiing was like listening to Rossini on a cheap radio. (''Durango just got 37 inches!'' Toby cried.) Dad napped; he swam in the hotel lap pool. He burrowed into a book about the battle of Iwo Jima. He took walks. His shoes picked up the white dust that spilled off the trucks hauling kaolin from a mine upriver to porcelain factories down valley. At night we played chess; his one victory, fittingly, was in a match that went to an endgame. We resumed our debate about the merits of pop music written after 1945. His suitcase finally showed up, and happily for everyone, he no longer had to wash his underwear in the sink. It was unaccountably touching to be camped in a room together, padding around in our pajamas, coordinating dental regimens and urinary schedules.
 Each night after the Colorado ski report (''42 inches at Wolf Creek!''), we headed out for dinner. We found a great wine bar called Bacher with a gleaming interior of burnished wood and alcoves in which the wine bottles were lighted like sacred objects. The proprietor cheerfully told us what to avoid on his own list, and then after a delicious nebbiolo-based wine from the Langhe region (Batie by Gianni Gagliardo), he brought out a masterpiece: a 1997 Barolo made by Ceretto from the grapes of the Bricco Rocche vineyard. He rinsed each glass with a splash of the wine, and refused to let us drink until the bouquet had time to open in the air. 
 One afternoon, I knocked off early, and Dad and I walked up to Pedemonte, a hamlet just north of Alagna where a cluster of Walser houses are set eave to eave, creating a cozy, souklike atmosphere. One of them, built in 1628, had been turned into a museum. The Walser people were clever and resourceful, expert woodworkers, weavers, dairymen, mountaineers. The ribbed porches of their houses served to dry the grass and hemp they harvested in the late summer months. The heat rising from the sheep and goats they kept in ground-floor stables helped warm their living rooms on the floor above. Hay stored in the attic acted as insulation. The roofs were fashioned from huge plates of slate and gneiss and were designed to compress under the weight of heavy snow without forcing the walls apart. 
 We ran into some skiers who were also staying at the Cristallo: Robert and Sara Scheiner. They lived outside London; Sara was English, Robert originally from New York. He'd almost been a casualty of one of my emergency stopping procedures on the Olen run, but rather than press charges, he offered to mediate the conflict over a glass of wine. He and Sara were going to have a look at the Montagna di Luce hotel, which was owned by their guide, Sergio Gabbio. Did we want to come? 
 Sergio, 51, belonged to one of the handful of prominent families in Alagna. His 77-year-old mother, Caterina Remella, was one of the last people who could speak the Walser dialect. Maybe the last. Sergio pointed out the hotel's intricate weight-bearing roof beams and the floor of the hotel restaurant, made of 100-year-old granite stones. Then he uncorked a 1999 Gattinara Osso San Grato made by Antoniolo and talked about Alagna. What to any outsider was a sleepy backwater uncorrupted by commercial pressures was to him already paradise lost. ''The only tracks you ever saw in the snow were animal tracks,'' he said with a sigh. ''Now there are ski tracks everywhere. It's good for the economy, but it's changed the life here. For me, Alagna was perfect 10 years ago. The winters were full of snow, and people came from everywhere -- Sweden, America. Good-quality people.''
 ''Unlike this riffraff you've got now,'' I joked. 
 Robert and Sara laughed, but Sergio looked stricken, fearing he'd offended us. English was not his first language. As he quickly worked to mend a fellowship that wasn't broken, I had another Margaret moment, struck by all the nuances that were lost in translation and how we all live unwittingly in families the way we live unwittingly in our native tongues, attuned to a tacit understanding that makes a joke funny or invests meaning and emotion in otherwise mundane events. It was exactly this ineffable context that began to evaporate like a pond in a drought when you were ratcheted from world to village to garden to bed. Who can know ahead of time what portion of one's identity is bound up in another's life? And who are these people who at once are so familiar and so mysterious -- whose power to define us we scarcely recognize until they are slipping from our hands? 
 I had hoped physical exertion would stifle Margaret, but over the past few days, she had insinuated herself even into my skiing. It was partly due to the conditions, the patches of ice and the scattering of rocks on the slopes. I was checking my speed as if the point of skiing were not transcendent moments of liberation but rather simply not to fall. I was skiing like someone braced for a blow. Maybe if we were in Durango with those 37 inches. . . .
 I decided the best way to ditch Margaret was by skiing all the way to Champoluc (two valleys to the west) and back with Toby and a local guide who had offered to show us around. His name was Armin Fisher. He was 41. He grew up in the Napa Valley but had been living in Europe since 1980. He told us he was the only American certified in Italy by the International Federation of Mountain Guides, and one of a dozen or so guides in the Corpo Guida Alagna. They all wore blue Marmot jackets. (A few years ago the Lyskamm Viaggi travel agency started its own guide service; Lyskamm guides wear green.) Armin's wife, Maria, was an architect from one of the power families in Alagna; they lived in a Walser house she renovated in the village. Armin had an office on the ground floor with a climbing wall. Being a Walser house, the ceilings were more suitable for Hobbits, and you had to start most climbs from a seated position on the floor. Climbing, more than skiing, was what brought Armin to the Alps; on his resume he has a solo ascent of the North Face of the Matterhorn and an ascent of the Peuterey Ridge on Mont Blanc.
 As the Alagna tram swooped toward the Cimalegna cliffs, he pointed out a 5.11 route he put up that finished right under a tram tower. 
 ''The crux went through an eagle's nest,'' he said. ''But fortunately it was in the fall, and there weren't any birds in it.'' 
 From Passo Salati, we took off for the Gressoney Valley, retracing the route Toby and I had skied on our first day. It wouldn't have taxed the 40-year-olds to descend the entire 3,782 feet to the floor of the valley without stopping, but I was bathing in lactic acid and grateful whenever Armin pulled over to point out some feature of the landscape: mountains, huts, glaciers, great off-piste runs that, unluckily for us, were lacking the snow to ski them. 
 In the Gressoney Valley we walked our skis across the road and boarded another tram and then a chairlift that took us almost 3,000 feet up to the Colle Bettaforca. Via trails and interconnecting lifts, we eventually worked our way down to Champoluc. From the top of the chairlift at Sarezza Mountain at just under 9,000 feet, we had a staggering view of the Monte Rosa summits and the Matterhorn, or Cervino, as the Italians call it. We turned around to begin the trip back, up seven lifts and down trails that, by the time we reached Alagna, would amount to close to 20,000 vertical feet of skiing that day. I discovered the joy of my professional duty to stop and take notes. It was Sunday, and the area around the top of the first gondola was like a scene from a city park. Italian mothers were pushing fat-tired baby strollers in the slushy snow, and people in short-sleeve shirts were strolling around as if skiing were only one of the distractions available when you got off a gondola. The terminus of nearly every lift had a restaurant with a great wine list.
 Eventually, we got back to Passo Salati. Armin had to go get his daughter at ski school, so we said goodbye. He had clients coming in next week and had promised to find them snow, which meant he would probably be looking north in Switzerland.
 Toby and I skied the bedeviling Col d'Olen traverse but stopped before the actual run at the wooden deck of the Rifugio Guglielmina, where Margherita of Savoy, the queen of Italy from 1878 to 1900, once stayed. Margherita, are you grieving . . . ?
 We found a table.
 ''May we see a menu?'' Toby said when the waiter approached.
 ''I am the menu!'' the waiter said. 
 He brought out bowls of vegetable soup and drafts of beer. After so much motion, so much territory devoured, it was bliss to do nothing but sit and let the mountains come to us. A group of Italians in their early 20s sat down at the other end of our table, men and women chattering happily, laughing, tossing their heads. They seemed worldly in a dolce vita way that no similar group of mindlessly vital Americans ever could. Maybe my impressions were distorted by fantasies about life in Europe. But I saw the waiter bring the wine they'd ordered, a Barbera. They watched in silence as he poured it. When he put the bottle down, they swirled their glasses and held them up like torches to study the color in the sun.
 5. The evening before we left, Dad and I walked down through town to return the skis. Toby had cut his little toe on a granite curb by the Cristallo lap pool and was limping around. He didn't feel like powering through the pain. Dad slung a pair of boots over his good shoulder. It was dusk when we started out and nearly dark when we came back. He hadn't said much. Lately, it seemed the only way to get a conversation started with him was to ask about the past. I asked when he'd last been in Italy. It was 18 years ago, he said, when he and my mother had visited my sister Cam, who was living in Bologna. They went on to Turkey afterward with their old friends the Goulds. Drove around in a rented car. Dad was at the wheel when they pulled into a Shell station. He didn't see the attendant frantically signaling, and the car sank to the hubcaps in freshly poured cement.
 The story had carried us up the road, and now we were by the church, where a newly posted notice announced a Mass for the late Clara Lageder Vedova Enzio, a fixture of Alagna life who had died in November, at 89. All her children were listed, 11 of them, and all the ways she was related to people -- mother-in-law, great-aunt. The announcement was in Italian, of course, so we couldn't be certain who was what, but the word for widow -- vedova -- had been incorporated into her proper name. We stood there a good quarter of an hour, my father and I, trying to translate the particulars of Widow Enzio's life. And when we left in the morning, an hour before first light, I thought of her, and felt her presence, and my father's, too, when the headlights of the airport van picked out the sign for Alagna with a red slash through it.
 When in Alagna . . .
 ONLINE
 The town's Web site (alagna.it) has lots of information about hotels, restaurants, ski conditions and things to do, as well as maps. 
 HOTELS
 Hotel Cristallo
 The Hotel Cristallo, within walking distance of the gondola, is probably the least traditional establishment in this most traditional ski town. But it's the one four-star hotel in Alagna (about $200 a night), with a good restaurant and a lap pool. hotelcristalloalagna.com. 
 Montagna di Luce
 Much less expensive ($90 a night) and more traditional than the Cristallo, Montagna di Luce is in Pedemonte, the Walser hamlet on the outskirts of Alagna -- which means it's not the most convenient for skiers. But if you have any leg muscles left at the end of the day, it's worth the hike. The hotel also has one of the best restaurants in town, fashioned from what was once an old cow shed. montagnadiluce.it.
 RESTAURANTS
 Unione
 Unione has a great wine list, but then so does nearly every place in town. The pot roast and the venison cooked in red wine sauce are amazing. No one in my family was adventurous enough to try the carne di cavallo -- grilled horse meat. 
 Bacher
 A wood-paneled wine bar right off the main street in the middle of town, with some 400 wines, most of them local and regional productions that seldom make it to stores in the United States. 
 GUIDE SERVICES
 Corpo Guide Alagna
 The ''blue coat'' Alagna-area mountain guides. Rates are as high as $325 a day, but it's worth it if you want to ski couloirs and tricky mountain areas (guidealagna.com). One of the Corpo guides, Armin Fisher, an American, offers tours through his company, Mountains and More. mountainsandmore.com.
 Lyskamm Viaggi
 A guide service (these guides wear green coats) and a travel agency that can book hotels. lyskammviaggi.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sweet Side of the Alps Alagna has no discos or chain stores - that's the good news. The bad news is that this winter it had no snow. (Photo by Massimo Vitali for The New York Times)
75 Years on Skis Sandy, the author's father, at Passo Salati. (Photo by Chip Brown)
Not So Facile The lift below the Cimalegna cliffs. (Photo by Massimo Vitali for The New York Times)
 Great Views, Even Better Wine List The Rifugio Guglielmina, at the top of the bedeviling Col d'Olen run. (Photo by Massimo Vitali for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); WEATHER (72%); GOLF (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALPS (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) ITALY (93%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



83 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Play; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5291 words

HEADLINE: Alle Montagne con Papa (To the Mountains, With the Old Man)

BYLINE: By CHIP BROWN; Chip Brown is the author of ''Good Morning Midnight'' and ''Afterwards, You're a Genius.''

 BODY:
1. ''If we're not careful,'' my brother, Toby, said as we loaded our bags into a taxi at Milan's Malpensa airport, ''this could end up being a story about emergency medical facilities in northern Italy.''
 My father smiled with forbearance refined over a lifetime of humoring wiseacre children. He'd jumped at the invitation to leave his three-stage care facility in North Carolina and join my brother and me for a week of skiing on the flanks of the Monte Rosa massif in the Italian Alps, but I could see he was anxious. The airline had lost his luggage and with it his blood pressure medicine and the stuff he took to help him sleep. And it had been four years since he last skied. He was 82, and his chronically romantic visions of what he might yet accomplish or still be able to do were foundering on physical ailments. A separated shoulder wouldn't heal. He was plagued by various joint and organ woes. He didn't like to be too far from a bathroom, a handrail or a dry martini. This would certainly be his last ski trip, closing a career that began in 1932, when he strapped on a pair of primitive boards and schussed a hill known as Linkety Blinks at the Montclair Golf Club in New Jersey. My mother was worried. ''Take care of my bear,'' she said. ''He's all I've got.'' 
Toby had already made a point of locating the nearest hospital, in the town of Borgosesia. We could see the Monte Rosa massif from the airport, a spectacular clutch of snowbound summits capped by the 15,204-foot Punta Dufour, the second highest peak in Western Europe.
 ''Alagna,'' I said to the driver.
 He nodded and commenced programming his dashboard G.P.S. From the airport, Alagna was supposed to be an easy hour-and-40-minute drive: west on a major highway, then north-northwest up the bending vineyard-strewn valley of the Sesia River.
 ''Alagna, Monte Rosa,'' I said again and pointed at the massif so there was no mistaking where we wanted to go. Perhaps he didn't believe us -- the ski season across Europe was melting under an unprecedented heat wave. The papers were saying it was the warmest winter in 1,250 years. 
 ''Monte Rosa,'' the driver said with patriotic fervor. And then, in the thrall of the alluring female voice on his G.P.S., he tacked off in the opposite direction. A clever local shortcut, perhaps? It took about an hour to realize we were badly off course, headed not for Alagna in the valley of the Sesia River but another town of the same name. (Don't ask me where it is.) We stopped three times for directions. We got on and off the same toll road half a dozen times. We followed narrow farm tracks along unflooded rice fields. We passed a mysterious walled village. As the G.P.S. siren offered lunatic directions -- Vada diritto! Uscita a sinistra! -- fog began to gather and the light began to fail. The trip took on the floating, purgatorial quality of a Samuel Beckett play.
 ''Are we looking for the hotel?'' my father asked as we wandered around an industrial area on the pan-flat Padan plains.
 I caught my brother's eye. For years, no Trivial Pursuit player in the family could approach Dad's knowledge of geography. Was his guidance system on the fritz, too?
 ''Dad, we're looking for a town up in the mountains, with snow.''
 ''That's right.''
 It was four hours later and pitch dark when we finally arrived in Alagna Valsesia, assured of our whereabouts as much by the pile of plowed snow in front of the hotel as by the sign outside the village.
 2. The plan, of course, was not just to ski in the ambience of old Europe, but to linger with the old man -- to play chess, and drink wine, and offer token opposition to his familiar rant that popular music since Jerome Kern and Cole Porter wasn't worth a damn. There is an elegiac undercurrent to almost everything we do together now. It goes with the territory, I guess. A frail pensioner with milky eyes and a head full of ghosts has usurped the vital, godlike figure of my boyhood. I know that one day my decline will disillusion my son in similar fashion. And yet the longing to protect and be protected is so instinctive that even in the most mundane moments, I catch my father looking for something of his prime for my sake, as I catch myself wanting to shore up mine for the sake of my son.
 In the morning we woke to the sound of rushing water and church bells. The three of us were sharing a raspberry-colored room at the Cristallo, a newly renovated (and, with its boutique decor, somewhat incongruous) four-star hotel beside the Sesia River. It was January, but the weather was more like a day in April: immaculate blue sky, temperatures in the high 40s. After breakfast, we went to rent skis at the only shop we could find in town that offered them. It was a half-mile hike down the main street, a narrow lane lined with barking dogs and crowing roosters. The damp air smelled of wood smoke and sap. A woman was leaning out the window of a villa, whacking a pillow. At the ski shop, we weren't asked to sign liability waivers. We plodded back up the hill, gear in tow, reanimating the dogs. Dad was winded; Toby took most of his load.
 Alagna has a population of about 400 and only a handful of hotels and restaurants. The village is strung along the west bank of the Sesia under the bell tower of St. Giovanni Battista, a Catholic church dating to 1511. It has vivid frescoes painted on the outside walls and a flat-screen monitor offering the latest weather forecast mounted on the side. (The parish priest is a passionate mountaineer with over 200 ascents of Monte Rosa.) 
 What draws skiers to Alagna is its proximity to some of the most exhilarating off-piste terrain in the world. What drew me was the sublime and storied landscape of the Alps. No other mountains, certainly not any in the United States, are so steeped in history or convey so much of our aesthetic and spiritual heritage. It is in contemplating the Alps, rather than, say, Interstate 70 from the chairlift at Vail, that one can, in Wordsworth's phrase, feed upon infinity. And for those who care about such things, Alagna is an anachronism -- as pristine an example of a traditional ski town as you'll find in Europe. Many of the houses are based on the centuries-old stone-and-wood designs of the Walser people, a High German-speaking population that began filtering into valleys south of Monte Rosa in the 12th century. You wouldn't think from the architecture that skiing and tourism had really eclipsed the old mainstays of farming and woodcutting.
 ''In the 1930's and 1940's, Alagna was the place where the high-society elite would come,'' said Simona de Simone, the owner of the Cristallo, which her parents acquired in the mid-1970's. ''In the 1970's and 80's, the national ski team used to come here to train on the glacier under Punta Indren in the summer. But for the last 20 years, Alagna has been hibernating.''
 Lately, real estate prices have begun to heat up, and other changes are in the works. A new lift under construction will open new terrain. A parking garage is being built next to the gondola. One of the old hotels on what's known as Hotel Square is being converted to condominiums. But there are no discos, no chain stores, no ersatz Alpine lodges. You can't find souvenir baseball caps that say ''Alagna.'' (I tried.) Petrus-swilling Russian billionaires prefer glitzier spots like Courchevel on the French side of the Alps. Alagna, when it has snow, caters to international powder hounds and weekending Italians. (It's a quick two-hour trip from downtown Milan unless your car is equipped with cutting-edge satellite guidance technology, in which case count on four.)
 As we lugged our gear back through town, we could see spindrift streaming off Punta Grober, the 11,476-foot peak that rises some 7,000 feet above the village at the head of the valley. Ridgeline larch and spruce trees were swaying wildly. Alagna is connected by a sprawling network of ski runs and lifts to towns in the two main Monte Rosa valleys to the west. But there is only one lift out of the village itself, a gondola situated almost as an afterthought at the end of a Dumpster-lined driveway. Lift tickets are a bargain at $45 a day, but when we got to the ticket window, it was closed. Too windy, we were told. Come back tomorrow.
 3. In the morning, Toby and I decided to head out by ourselves, promising Dad we would collect him at around 11:00, after we'd had a chance to reconnoiter. He seemed relieved. His luggage still hadn't arrived. He wanted to wash his underwear and go back to bed. He'd lain awake much of the night; he said that of late he'd been brooding about his life, his shortcomings as a professional writer, a husband and a father. And there was the additional agitation of the chess game the previous evening, when he'd blundered away a winning position and let me escape with a stalemate. By the time we left, he'd already fallen back asleep. He looked like a royal mummy with his arms crossed on his chest; only the rasp of breath signified his status among the living. 
 I had some anxieties of my own, mainly about keeping up with my brother. Toby is not only 10 years younger but lives at altitude, in Telluride, Colo., where he has skied close to 100 days a year for the last 17 years. He'd already logged a month on Colorado snow. I live at sea level and am lucky to ski once a year; the only training I'd done for this trip was to click on Alagna-related Web sites. On top of all that, Toby already knew the terrain, having skied Monte Rosa last year with his wife and two preteen sons during a family vacation to the winter Olympics in nearby Turin. 
 ''I can't believe how little snow there is,'' he said, pointing to a bare hill as we rode the gondola up. ''All this was covered last year. You couldn't see any of these rocks.'' (Later that day, he began checking Colorado snow reports online. ''Telluride just got 17 inches!'' he said.)
 From the gondola we walked to a double tram that whisked us on a heart-stopping ride over the Cimalegna cliffs and on up to Passo Salati. We were now almost 6,000 feet above Alagna amid a spectacular panorama of mountains. We took a run under the tram to the halfway loading station, where the trail's end was marked by a sign showing a skier tumbling off a cliff. The easy groomer seemed like something Dad would enjoy, assuming he spotted the sign. 
 We got on the tram again, rode back to the top and then turned west on groomed but slightly steeper trails that funneled us into the Gressoney Valley, where Toby had stayed last year in the town of Gressoney-St.-Jean. The valley was wider and more developed than Alagna. My thighs were burning from the ground we'd covered, and I was glad to rest on the two lifts that took us back up to Passo Salati. We cut around to a snowy off-piste area below the Col d'Olen -- on one of those rollicking luge-track traverses where the pain of falling is aggravated by the humiliation. The snow in the sunless couloir was dry and plentiful and proved to be some of the best we would have all week. But the run was exhaustingly long, and by the time we got to the tram station, we'd skied almost 9,000 vertical feet. My legs were ready for a three-stage care facility. We were still only halfway to Alagna, 2,700 feet below.
 ''Power through the pain,'' Toby said.
 The trail to the village was mostly a white ribbon of man-made snow winding through an autumnal tableau of dry pastures and leafless trees. The snow was leached out in places, exposing the dirt underneath. One steep stretch was so icy and skied out that even Toby seemed gripped as he clattered across it, like a moose on roller skates.
 ''No way Dad is coming down this,'' he said. 
 Dad was waiting for us when we got back to the hotel. Toby had outfitted him with a gray parka, blue wind pants, a Norwegian wool hat and goggles. He helped him into the rented ski boots like a squire buckling armor on a knight. 
 And up we went. I glanced at my father as we rose out of the valley into the realm of the white peaks. Was he feeding on infinity or fretting about his still-undelivered suitcase? I couldn't read his face behind the goggles, and he wasn't saying.
 A writer I know had a friend who once told him a man's life could be divided into four stages: world, village, garden, bed. When we threw down our skis at Passo Salati, the world was at our feet. 
 After giving some remedial counsel about clearing the snow off his boots, Toby snapped Dad into the bindings. He poled over to the top of the run. Bodwitch it was called; facile was the grade. The gentle entry pitch could be negotiated with a turn or two before it flattened out -- that was the pattern of the whole run, a series of facile steps. The only easy trail on the mountain, from what I could tell. 
 I dipped down to the flat part to wait. When I looked back, Dad was on the ground and Toby was bending over him, lifting him under the arms the way he had reset his own two boys a decade ago when he was teaching them to ski, and the way last winter I had lifted my son, Oliver, out of a powder bank, laughing because he looked as if he had battered himself in flour, and then biting my lip because his pride was wounded and he was crying, and it moved me almost like nothing else to see how much it mattered to him that he shine in my eyes. It seemed like yesterday that Dad had gathered all of us in Telluride for a Christmas holiday and was himself confidently carving turns down See Forever. I could go back even further to those Precambrian times in the 1950s, when my mittens were connected by strings and Dad was stemming down Bromley Mountain in Vermont in leather lace-up boots and aluminum skis as long as rain gutters, or that time before I was born when he was a young reporter at The Rutland Herald, writing stories like the one about the local dog who tried three times to commit suicide, and he got to ski free at Pico Peak -- Dad, not the dog -- because the company that ran the lifts liked reporters. . . .
 And now here he was, on a holiday from a house in North Carolina where if you didn't pull a cord in the morning, a medical SWAT team would burst through the door, greasing defibrillator paddles. Here he was, under way at last in the Italian Alps, dropping through the fall line and picking up speed and leaning into a turn, his first in four years, just like the old days. And then he fell. His skis skidded out from under him. He went down like someone sliding into home in a softball game. He went down hard in the middle of a slope where nobody fell, not even the little kids skiing on leashes. We watched for a moment in a kind of shock, my brother and I. Dad planted his poles. He tried to get up, but he didn't have the strength. That's what sealed it. I looked at Toby and we knew it wasn't going to work. It would take us all day to get Dad down. Facile was too hard. My throat closed up; I had to wipe my eyes. I found myself remembering that Gerard Manley Hopkins poem about sorrow that I learned in grade school when it meant zilch, the one that begins: Margaret, are you grieving/ Over Goldengrove unleaving? How did it end? 
 It is the blight man was born for,/ It is Margaret you mourn for.
 Toby hopped out of his skis and went to where Dad was sitting on the snow. Suddenly-Mortal Margaret removed hers too and clambered up to him. Dad seemed bewildered more than anything else. Not to be able to do something that had been second nature for so long. . . .
 Toby got him out of the bindings and helped him to his feet. 
 ''Dad, I think we better not try it.''
 He didn't argue.
 He seemed so unnaturally passive and tractable that I wondered for a moment if I might get him to agree that nothing in Cole Porter's songbook rivaled the artistry of Grand Funk Railroad, not to mention Toby's onetime sine qua non band, Haircut 100.
 ''I don't have any balance,'' he said.
 Toby took his arm and helped him up the hill. It was all of 20 vertical feet my father had logged on his last run, but when he got back to flat ground he seemed completely drained. I could only imagine the miles of territory he'd covered in his mind.
 It was for just these moments that alcohol must have been invented. Hoping to leaven the funereal mood, I suggested that Dad take the lift from Passo Salati down to Gabiet on the Gressoney side of the watershed and meet us for lunch. We stowed his skis in the tram shed, saw him to the gondola, then whipped down the run and were waiting for him when he stepped off at the Gabiet station, a patch of pale forehead showing between his goggles and hat.
 ''My kids call that goggle gap,'' Toby said. ''It's uncool.'' 
 Dad fixed his hat. We clumped up a hill to Alpenhutte Lys and found a table in the sun amid a gorgeous backdrop of couloirs, rocky bowls and ridges. After some lasagna, salad and bread washed down with Moretti beer, Dad's spirits perked up. He studied a quotation attributed to Goethe that was written on the wooden balcony, drawing on the Latin he had taken back in the days he was schussing Linkety Blinks.
 ''What does it say, Dad?''
 '' 'If you want to know the Almighty God you must walk in the mountains.' ''
 How wise of Goethe not to mention anything about skiing.
 So we walked in the mountains, but only to get back to the almighty Gabiet gondola. As we rode up, Toby carefully went over the rest of the segments of Dad's return trip to Alagna, explaining that he had to carry his skis onto the tram and then load them in the rack on the Alagna gondola, and then collect them when he exited at the base. He could leave them by the ticket office. Toby would bring them back to the hotel. O.K.? O.K. We said goodbye. I had to power through the pain again, watching him struggle over to the tram in his awkward ski boots. 
 And then I was distracted by the task of not killing myself on the slick traverse over to the good snow below the Col d'Olen.
 When we got back to Alagna, I slumped on the steps leading down to our hotel, while Toby, who could still walk, went to retrieve Dad's skis, hoping they were where they were supposed to be. When he came back five minutes later, he had them on his shoulder. 
 ''The Eagle has landed,'' he said.
 4. Later Dad told us that on the way down a man in his 60's asked him, ''How old can you be and still go skiing?''
 Later we heard about one of the local Alagna guides who'd been spotted climbing Monte Rosa at age 94.
 Later Dad said he might take a lesson, even though Toby had already returned his skis.
 Later -- and this is the thing that really got me -- Dad apologized for letting us down.
 I half-wished for his sake that Alagna had the diversion of a disco or some Russian billionaires with a retinue of snow bunnies, or at least a shop with a copy of The International Herald Tribune for the old newspaperman. There wasn't much to do in the day if you weren't skiing. Even then, given how the glories of the terrain were circumscribed by the lack of snow, the skiing was like listening to Rossini on a cheap radio. (''Durango just got 37 inches!'' Toby cried.) Dad napped; he swam in the hotel lap pool. He burrowed into a book about the battle of Iwo Jima. He took walks. His shoes picked up the white dust that spilled off the trucks hauling kaolin from a mine upriver to porcelain factories down valley. At night we played chess; his one victory, fittingly, was in a match that went to an endgame. We resumed our debate about the merits of pop music written after 1945. His suitcase finally showed up, and happily for everyone, he no longer had to wash his underwear in the sink. It was unaccountably touching to be camped in a room together, padding around in our pajamas, coordinating dental regimens and urinary schedules.
 Each night after the Colorado ski report (''42 inches at Wolf Creek!''), we headed out for dinner. We found a great wine bar called Bacher with a gleaming interior of burnished wood and alcoves in which the wine bottles were lighted like sacred objects. The proprietor cheerfully told us what to avoid on his own list, and then after a delicious nebbiolo-based wine from the Langhe region (Batie by Gianni Gagliardo), he brought out a masterpiece: a 1997 Barolo made by Ceretto from the grapes of the Bricco Rocche vineyard. He rinsed each glass with a splash of the wine, and refused to let us drink until the bouquet had time to open in the air. 
 One afternoon, I knocked off early, and Dad and I walked up to Pedemonte, a hamlet just north of Alagna where a cluster of Walser houses are set eave to eave, creating a cozy, souklike atmosphere. One of them, built in 1628, had been turned into a museum. The Walser people were clever and resourceful, expert woodworkers, weavers, dairymen, mountaineers. The ribbed porches of their houses served to dry the grass and hemp they harvested in the late summer months. The heat rising from the sheep and goats they kept in ground-floor stables helped warm their living rooms on the floor above. Hay stored in the attic acted as insulation. The roofs were fashioned from huge plates of slate and gneiss and were designed to compress under the weight of heavy snow without forcing the walls apart. 
 We ran into some skiers who were also staying at the Cristallo: Robert and Sara Scheiner. They lived outside London; Sara was English, Robert originally from New York. He'd almost been a casualty of one of my emergency stopping procedures on the Olen run, but rather than press charges, he offered to mediate the conflict over a glass of wine. He and Sara were going to have a look at the Montagna di Luce hotel, which was owned by their guide, Sergio Gabbio. Did we want to come? 
 Sergio, 51, belonged to one of the handful of prominent families in Alagna. His 77-year-old mother, Caterina Remella, was one of the last people who could speak the Walser dialect. Maybe the last. Sergio pointed out the hotel's intricate weight-bearing roof beams and the floor of the hotel restaurant, made of 100-year-old granite stones. Then he uncorked a 1999 Gattinara Osso San Grato made by Antoniolo and talked about Alagna. What to any outsider was a sleepy backwater uncorrupted by commercial pressures was to him already paradise lost. ''The only tracks you ever saw in the snow were animal tracks,'' he said with a sigh. ''Now there are ski tracks everywhere. It's good for the economy, but it's changed the life here. For me, Alagna was perfect 10 years ago. The winters were full of snow, and people came from everywhere -- Sweden, America. Good-quality people.''
 ''Unlike this riffraff you've got now,'' I joked. 
 Robert and Sara laughed, but Sergio looked stricken, fearing he'd offended us. English was not his first language. As he quickly worked to mend a fellowship that wasn't broken, I had another Margaret moment, struck by all the nuances that were lost in translation and how we all live unwittingly in families the way we live unwittingly in our native tongues, attuned to a tacit understanding that makes a joke funny or invests meaning and emotion in otherwise mundane events. It was exactly this ineffable context that began to evaporate like a pond in a drought when you were ratcheted from world to village to garden to bed. Who can know ahead of time what portion of one's identity is bound up in another's life? And who are these people who at once are so familiar and so mysterious -- whose power to define us we scarcely recognize until they are slipping from our hands? 
 I had hoped physical exertion would stifle Margaret, but over the past few days, she had insinuated herself even into my skiing. It was partly due to the conditions, the patches of ice and the scattering of rocks on the slopes. I was checking my speed as if the point of skiing were not transcendent moments of liberation but rather simply not to fall. I was skiing like someone braced for a blow. Maybe if we were in Durango with those 37 inches. . . .
 I decided the best way to ditch Margaret was by skiing all the way to Champoluc (two valleys to the west) and back with Toby and a local guide who had offered to show us around. His name was Armin Fisher. He was 41. He grew up in the Napa Valley but had been living in Europe since 1980. He told us he was the only American certified in Italy by the International Federation of Mountain Guides, and one of a dozen or so guides in the Corpo Guida Alagna. They all wore blue Marmot jackets. (A few years ago the Lyskamm Viaggi travel agency started its own guide service; Lyskamm guides wear green.) Armin's wife, Maria, was an architect from one of the power families in Alagna; they lived in a Walser house she renovated in the village. Armin had an office on the ground floor with a climbing wall. Being a Walser house, the ceilings were more suitable for Hobbits, and you had to start most climbs from a seated position on the floor. Climbing, more than skiing, was what brought Armin to the Alps; on his resume he has a solo ascent of the North Face of the Matterhorn and an ascent of the Peuterey Ridge on Mont Blanc.
 As the Alagna tram swooped toward the Cimalegna cliffs, he pointed out a 5.11 route he put up that finished right under a tram tower. 
 ''The crux went through an eagle's nest,'' he said. ''But fortunately it was in the fall, and there weren't any birds in it.'' 
 From Passo Salati, we took off for the Gressoney Valley, retracing the route Toby and I had skied on our first day. It wouldn't have taxed the 40-year-olds to descend the entire 3,782 feet to the floor of the valley without stopping, but I was bathing in lactic acid and grateful whenever Armin pulled over to point out some feature of the landscape: mountains, huts, glaciers, great off-piste runs that, unluckily for us, were lacking the snow to ski them. 
 In the Gressoney Valley we walked our skis across the road and boarded another tram and then a chairlift that took us almost 3,000 feet up to the Colle Bettaforca. Via trails and interconnecting lifts, we eventually worked our way down to Champoluc. From the top of the chairlift at Sarezza Mountain at just under 9,000 feet, we had a staggering view of the Monte Rosa summits and the Matterhorn, or Cervino, as the Italians call it. We turned around to begin the trip back, up seven lifts and down trails that, by the time we reached Alagna, would amount to close to 20,000 vertical feet of skiing that day. I discovered the joy of my professional duty to stop and take notes. It was Sunday, and the area around the top of the first gondola was like a scene from a city park. Italian mothers were pushing fat-tired baby strollers in the slushy snow, and people in short-sleeve shirts were strolling around as if skiing were only one of the distractions available when you got off a gondola. The terminus of nearly every lift had a restaurant with a great wine list.
 Eventually, we got back to Passo Salati. Armin had to go get his daughter at ski school, so we said goodbye. He had clients coming in next week and had promised to find them snow, which meant he would probably be looking north in Switzerland.
 Toby and I skied the bedeviling Col d'Olen traverse but stopped before the actual run at the wooden deck of the Rifugio Guglielmina, where Margherita of Savoy, the queen of Italy from 1878 to 1900, once stayed. Margherita, are you grieving . . . ?
 We found a table.
 ''May we see a menu?'' Toby said when the waiter approached.
 ''I am the menu!'' the waiter said. 
 He brought out bowls of vegetable soup and drafts of beer. After so much motion, so much territory devoured, it was bliss to do nothing but sit and let the mountains come to us. A group of Italians in their early 20s sat down at the other end of our table, men and women chattering happily, laughing, tossing their heads. They seemed worldly in a dolce vita way that no similar group of mindlessly vital Americans ever could. Maybe my impressions were distorted by fantasies about life in Europe. But I saw the waiter bring the wine they'd ordered, a Barbera. They watched in silence as he poured it. When he put the bottle down, they swirled their glasses and held them up like torches to study the color in the sun.
 5. The evening before we left, Dad and I walked down through town to return the skis. Toby had cut his little toe on a granite curb by the Cristallo lap pool and was limping around. He didn't feel like powering through the pain. Dad slung a pair of boots over his good shoulder. It was dusk when we started out and nearly dark when we came back. He hadn't said much. Lately, it seemed the only way to get a conversation started with him was to ask about the past. I asked when he'd last been in Italy. It was 18 years ago, he said, when he and my mother had visited my sister Cam, who was living in Bologna. They went on to Turkey afterward with their old friends the Goulds. Drove around in a rented car. Dad was at the wheel when they pulled into a Shell station. He didn't see the attendant frantically signaling, and the car sank to the hubcaps in freshly poured cement.
 The story had carried us up the road, and now we were by the church, where a newly posted notice announced a Mass for the late Clara Lageder Vedova Enzio, a fixture of Alagna life who had died in November, at 89. All her children were listed, 11 of them, and all the ways she was related to people -- mother-in-law, great-aunt. The announcement was in Italian, of course, so we couldn't be certain who was what, but the word for widow -- vedova -- had been incorporated into her proper name. We stood there a good quarter of an hour, my father and I, trying to translate the particulars of Widow Enzio's life. And when we left in the morning, an hour before first light, I thought of her, and felt her presence, and my father's, too, when the headlights of the airport van picked out the sign for Alagna with a red slash through it.
 When in Alagna . . .
 ONLINE
 The town's Web site (alagna.it) has lots of information about hotels, restaurants, ski conditions and things to do, as well as maps. 
 HOTELS
 Hotel Cristallo
 The Hotel Cristallo, within walking distance of the gondola, is probably the least traditional establishment in this most traditional ski town. But it's the one four-star hotel in Alagna (about $200 a night), with a good restaurant and a lap pool. hotelcristalloalagna.com. 
 Montagna di Luce
 Much less expensive ($90 a night) and more traditional than the Cristallo, Montagna di Luce is in Pedemonte, the Walser hamlet on the outskirts of Alagna -- which means it's not the most convenient for skiers. But if you have any leg muscles left at the end of the day, it's worth the hike. The hotel also has one of the best restaurants in town, fashioned from what was once an old cow shed. montagnadiluce.it.
 RESTAURANTS
 Unione
 Unione has a great wine list, but then so does nearly every place in town. The pot roast and the venison cooked in red wine sauce are amazing. No one in my family was adventurous enough to try the carne di cavallo -- grilled horse meat. 
 Bacher
 A wood-paneled wine bar right off the main street in the middle of town, with some 400 wines, most of them local and regional productions that seldom make it to stores in the United States. 
 GUIDE SERVICES
 Corpo Guide Alagna
 The ''blue coat'' Alagna-area mountain guides. Rates are as high as $325 a day, but it's worth it if you want to ski couloirs and tricky mountain areas (guidealagna.com). One of the Corpo guides, Armin Fisher, an American, offers tours through his company, Mountains and More. mountainsandmore.com.
 Lyskamm Viaggi
 A guide service (these guides wear green coats) and a travel agency that can book hotels. lyskammviaggi.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Sweet Side of the Alps Alagna has no discos or chain stores - that's the good news. The bad news is that this winter it had no snow. (Photo by Massimo Vitali for The New York Times)
75 Years on Skis Sandy, the author's father, at Passo Salati. (Photo by Chip Brown)
Not So Facile The lift below the Cimalegna cliffs. (Photo by Massimo Vitali for The New York Times)
 Great Views, Even Better Wine List The Rifugio Guglielmina, at the top of the bedeviling Col d'Olen run. (Photo by Massimo Vitali for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); WEATHER (72%); GOLF (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALPS (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) ITALY (93%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007



84 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4617 words

HEADLINE: Ryan Howard, No Asterisk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE; Michael Sokolove is a frequent contributor to Play.

 BODY:
What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in slow motion, and you start your swing with a short stride, a subtle shift of weight and a powerful forward thrust of the hips. Your hands follow and then, finally, the barrel of the bat comes whipping through the hitting zone and -- crack! -- connects with the ball, sending it on a majestic arc into the upper deck.
 Just once, right? To be that most American of sports icons: the Slugger. 
Now, here is Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia Phillies on Sept. 3, 2006. He is a baby in baseball years, still in his first full big-league season, but a man-child at the plate: 6-foot-4, 250-plus pounds and big all over. He has biceps that it would take two large hands to fully encircle, thick-muscled forearms and -- more noticeable in the locker room than on the field, where he wears a baggy uniform top -- a surprisingly ample midsection. Howard is Ruthian, only bigger. Even his round, expressive face -- quick to break into a smile, more open and inviting than the typical impassive countenance of the big-time pro athlete -- seems extra large.
 He takes his place in the left batter's box at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, a hitter's paradise -- not that the dimensions of a ballpark matter much to him. Legend has it that Howard hit his first 400-foot home run at age 12, a blast that rocketed over an outfield fence and smacked against the side of a Red Lobster restaurant.
 On this Sunday afternoon, the opposing pitcher is Tim Hudson of the Atlanta Braves, a veteran with stuff that is more clever than overpowering. Hudson's pitches have what is called late movement -- they sink, dart and sail, leaving hitters waving at air or topping harmless ground balls.
 Howard, batting cleanup, leads off the bottom of the second inning. He has, at this point, 49 home runs, an astonishing number for early September. He has already surpassed the team record for home runs in a season, held by Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt, and he is two away from Ralph Kiner's mark for second-year players, set in 1947. (Howard became a full-time big leaguer in July 2005.)
 The act of hitting a baseball is an energy transfer: from the body to the bat to the ball. Just before Hudson rocks into his wind-up, Howard, a lefty, uses his right hand to point his 34-ounce bat at a 45-degree angle directly over the pitcher's head. This is a timing device, although, as Howard has become one of the game's most prodigious home-run hitters, it can easily be taken as a boast. Follow the angle of the bat and it suggests a trajectory straight out over the center-field fence.
 He brings the bat back as Hudson readies, grips it with both hands and cocks his left (back) elbow. His focus now is on ''staying quiet,'' as he puts it -- being still. He wants no energy to leak out until it can be put to its proper use. His knees are flexed, his weight set back in his stance. Only his wrists are moving, just slightly, causing the top of the bat to wave like a flag in a limp breeze.
 The first pitch is a slider, bearing in on Howard's shoe tops. He explodes out of his stance and brings the barrel of the bat down solidly on the ball -- sending a towering drive over the right-center-field wall. Home run No. 50.
 Hudson stands at the back of the mound and looks toward the outfield long after the ball has cleared the wall. He stares at the replay on the scoreboard, as if thinking to himself, He hit that pitch where?
 Second at-bat: Hudson throws his first pitch near Howard's head, which he casually avoids by leaning back. ''No big deal,'' Howard tells me later. ''You kind of have to expect that.'' After a foul ball, he sends Hudson's third offering -- a fat pitch about belt high -- deep over the center-field wall, in the same general direction as the first one, only quite a bit farther. Home run No. 51.
 Third at-bat: With the count at one ball and two strikes Hudson throws a sinker that veers low and away, a pitch that is meant to tempt Howard to swing at something he can't reach -- or, if he does, can't hit solidly. Howard extends his massive arms and hits a line drive to left field, which clears the wall nearly as quickly as a spectator can locate it with his eyes. Home run No. 52.
 Three at-bats. Three home runs.
 Out on the mound, Hudson looks more bemused than angry. He had put that last pitch right where he intended. ''You kind of scratch your head after that,'' he tells reporters gathered at his locker after the game. ''What the hell are you going to do next?''
 Ryan Howard felt a surge of pleasure when he connected on those three swings. He heard the crowd's roar, knew for sure that the second two balls would clear the outfield walls. (The first just cleared the fence, and Howard had taken off hard toward first base out of the batter's box.) But there was a lack of actual physical sensation, or at least one that is easily described -- that weird nothingness of hitting a ball, with force and perfect timing, right on the sweet spot of a baseball bat.
 It is an odd neurological loop: job well done, but you know it only because there's no unpleasant message to the contrary. ''You feel a lot more in your hands if the pitch gets in on you and busts you in the handle,'' Howard says. ''It stings. But when you catch it square, it doesn't seem like you feel it as much.''
 Last season, Howard had 58 home runs, a total exceeded by only five men in baseball history -- Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Roger Maris and Babe Ruth. Twenty-eight of Howard's home runs either tied the game or put the Phillies ahead, and he knocked in a major-league-leading 149 runs -- including 42 in August, the most r.b.i. by a player in a single month in 34 years. He was the National League player of the month in both August and September, and after the season, he was voted the league's Most Valuable Player.
 As every baseball fan knows, the game is awash in statistics, some more telling than others. One esoteric stat is particularly enlightening in Howard's case: his home-run-to-fly-ball ratio of 39.5 percent. What that means is that of every 10 fair balls he hits in the air, about 4 end up as home runs. The player with the next highest ratio last year, Travis Hafner of the Cleveland Indians, had a ratio of 30.2.
 There is a feast-or-famine aspect to Howard's hitting: he strikes out a lot -- 181 times last season, the second most in the majors -- so he doesn't put as many balls in play as others do in the same number of at-bats. But as his teammate Aaron Rowand says: ''When he hits it, he hits it. Ryan doesn't hit a lot of bloopers.''
 The majority of Howard's home runs went to left or center field, the mark of a hitter who is powerful enough not to have to pull balls to reach the seats, and several landed in places rarely reached by batted balls. Last April in Philadelphia, Howard hit a dead-center-field home run that was measured at 496 feet.
 It is impossible, of course, to think about power hitting these days without wondering about performance-enhancing drugs. Bonds, McGwire and Sosa all played in what is now commonly called baseball's Steroid Era, and suspicion has fallen on each of them. On the subject of sports and chemical enhancement, the first rule is never to assume guilt -- or innocence. Surprises lurk. But Howard, big from the womb, a lifelong slugger, is generally assumed around baseball to be clean. (Howard is subject to Major League Baseball's drug-testing policy, which calls for players to be tested for steroids, amphetamines and certain other substances once in spring training and at least one other time during the season. He was also tested in the minor leagues.)
 In mid-September, a ball hit by Howard at Minute Maid Park in Houston caromed off the glove of a 10-year-old fan in the left-field seats and fell back into the outfield. Television replays clearly showed that it should have been called a home run, but the third-base umpire ruled the ball in play. After the game, Astros first baseman Lance Berkman had an interesting reaction, telling reporters, ''I hope it doesn't cost him the steroid-free home run record.''
 It didn't. Howard would have fallen short of Maris's 61 home runs, anyway -- mainly because he became so terrifying to opposing managers that they started walking him at every possible opportunity. He was second in the majors with 37 intentional walks, several of them issued in situations that rarely call for such a move.
 For example, in a late-September game, Frank Robinson, then managing the Washington Nationals, twice ordered Howard to be walked in extra innings -- once with the bases empty and two outs, another time with a runner on first who then moved into scoring position as a potential game-winning run. After a game the night before, during which Robinson challenged Howard in a key spot, Robinson told me: ''Every hitter has vulnerabilities. No reason not to attack them.'' When I asked him the next night why he seemed to lose courage, he said: ''Didn't want to press my luck. Ryan is a very strong young man.''
 Physicists who have studied hitting toss around terms like ''bat speed,'' ''torque'' and ''rotational mechanics.'' It is fair to say that strength generally promotes bat speed and home-run power. Howard comes from a family of big people and, by appearance, is what used to be called ''country strong.''
 Howard and I met one day near his off-season home, in suburban St. Louis, amid a landscape of tract houses and what looked like an endless expanse of strip shopping centers and chain restaurants. He had just finished one of his three-hour, five-times-a-week workouts, which consist mostly of weight training. He had been dieting, too, eating more vegetables and fewer fried foods. 
 We took a seat at the restaurant he chose, a place called O'Charley's, which featured an oversize menu of American favorites. When his grilled chicken was put down in front of him, he looked displeased and immediately lifted it with his fork. ''I sure hope they put my mashed potatoes under there,'' he said. When he came upon a mound of them, he brightened up. He continued stabbing at a bowl of tortilla chips, loading them up with salsa. ''Do me a favor,'' he told me. ''Eat some of these. Help me out. I'm trying to be good.''
 Howard's power surge at the end of last season brought about something unprecedented in recent baseball history. By July, the Phillies had surrendered the season -- and sort of the next one, too. The general manager, Pat Gillick, had traded off important players -- the starting right fielder and third baseman, a starting pitcher, a key left-handed relief pitcher -- and told the team's fans not to expect the Phillies to be contenders until 2008. Such housecleaning happens every season in baseball: lesser teams build for the future by trading veterans for prospects.
 What doesn't happen is what the Phillies did next, which was to climb back into the playoff race, largely on the back of Howard, who in the season's second half hit .355 with 30 home runs and 78 r.b.i. By August, Gillick had reversed course and was acquiring veteran talent for the stretch run. (The Phillies were finally eliminated from the wild-card playoff spot on the last weekend of the season.)
 Howard, respectful of baseball custom, strives for modesty. Understatement is a much-admired quality in baseball. When I talked to him about the home-run-to-fly-ball ratio, he had no idea what his was (or that anyone even kept such a stat). But when I asked him to guess how many of his fly balls cleared the fences, his answer seemed like a true measure of his estimation of his own abilities. ''I don't know,'' he said. ''Six out of 10? Seven out of 10?''
 In some ways, Howard is the anti-Barry Bonds, who looms over the coming baseball season like an unwelcome guest at a dinner party. Bonds, an outfielder with the San Francisco Giants, is 22 home runs from surpassing Hank Aaron's record of 755. For a great many baseball fans, his grim pursuit will be a cause for dismay more than celebration. Even before the steroid allegations, Bonds was one of the game's sour personalities, unloved by fans outside his home city and often reviled by his own teammates.
 Howard, by contrast, is cordial with the press, well liked in the clubhouse and much more likely to offer fans a smile and an autograph than a scowl. He arrives early for games and can usually be found with his big frame folded into an easy chair or couch in front of a large TV, watching videos with teammates. He gets high marks for his ''demeanor.'' Baseball people use the word constantly, and it serves as a catchall for many things: a player's work habits; his ability to stay on a steady emotional keel whether he has hit a couple of home runs or struck out four times; his relationships among teammates and coaches.
 ''Ryan is just a very easy guy to be around,'' the Phillies' manager, Charlie Manuel, says. ''You couldn't ask for a guy with a better demeanor.''
 Howard, though, does share one similarity with Bonds, a significant one within the context of baseball's changing sociology: he is an African-American player at a moment when the number of American-born blacks in the major leagues has dropped strikingly. In 2005, the National League champion Houston Astros had no black players on their World Series roster, the first time that was the case for a team in half a century. At one point last season, six teams in Major League Baseball did not have a single black player on their rosters. Below the professional level, there are so few blacks in the game that many of the nation's historically black colleges are fielding baseball teams made up mostly of white and Hispanic players. (The Washington Post reported that Coppin State University in Baltimore had 30 white male students enrolled in 2006; roughly half of them were on the baseball team.)
 Black players now make up about 9 percent of big-league rosters -- down from 19 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1975. Hispanics, at 29 percent, have become the dominant minority in the game.
 So how did Ryan Howard become a baseball player? Part of the answer is that he comes from where many of the game's white players do -- a largely white suburb. He grew up in Wildwood, Mo., on the outer edge of St. Louis's western sprawl. His mother, Cheryl, now retired, worked in marketing, and his father, Ron, is a manager for I.B.M. He has three siblings, including a fraternal twin, all of whom are college-educated professionals.
 Ron and Cheryl Howard don't consider themselves particularly athletic. ''I could play everything, just not well,'' Ron told me. Cheryl Howard added: ''I'm from the pre-Title IX days, so I didn't get a chance to play organized sports. But my father played sandlot baseball with Willie Mays in Birmingham, so we've decided Ryan's baseball talent comes through my side.''
 When Ryan Howard was 2, his father walked into a room where a TV was showing a baseball game and saw his son intent on the action and swinging a little red bat. ''It was such a natural swing,'' Ron Howard says. ''At that moment I knew he'd be some kind of baseball player. How far? I didn't know. But that feeling came over me.''
 To be blessed with hand-eye coordination and the strength to mash a baseball 500 feet ought to fill a man with self-assurance. But pro sports are full of gifted players with cracks in their psyches who on some career-killing level do not fully believe in themselves. Howard's upbringing seems to have imbued him with a sense of self that extends well beyond his abilities on the ball field.
 As his parents describe it, their household was a mix of old-time Southern values and middle-class aspiration. ''All our kids were taught to say 'Yes, sir,' 'Yes, ma'am' and so on,'' Ron Howard says. ''We valued hard work and taught them: believe in oneself, believe in each other and believe in the Almighty.''
 There were, as well, some quirkier rules. For example, Ron taught everyone to drive using a standard shift, which he considers an essential life skill, and made them take their driving tests in a car with a stick shift. ''No, they weren't pleased about it,'' he recalls, ''but it was a binary situation. You do it this way if you want to drive -- or the other way if you don't want to drive.''
 Howard played a lot of soccer as a kid. He was a good high school basketball player. He also played the trombone in the school band. He played a little football, but his mother insisted he give it up because she believed he risked injury by being such a large target.
 Ryan Howard says that he was one of just a handful of black players on most of his youth baseball teams. His sports heroes were Barry Bonds, Ken Griffey Jr., Tony Gwynn. ''I guess you can throw Michael in there,'' he adds, meaning Michael Jordan, but he makes it sound like an obligation. He was focused on baseball.
 In Philadelphia, Howard faces the particular challenge of playing for a team with famously demanding (and sometimes abusive) fans -- and in a city with a particularly shameful history of mistreating black baseball players. The Phillies were the last team in the National League to sign a black player -- in 1957, a full decade after Jackie Robinson's debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Robinson himself suffered such abuse from the Phillies that he later wrote that they were ''a Northern team that I had come to associate with the Deep South.''
 Other than Howard, the Phillies have had just one black superstar: Dick Allen, then known as ''Richie,'' a fearsome slugger but a rebel and a turbulent soul who endured such mind-bending abuse from the home crowd that after six years in Philadelphia he was scratching cryptic messages with his spikes in the infield dirt. (Among them, ''Mom,'' ''Boo'' and ''Oct. 2,'' the date of the last game of the 1969 season.)
 Sometimes, though, a certain athlete and a city just seem like a good match. Howard drives a GMC Yukon with 100,000-plus miles and is not much for fancy clothes or late nights. His Everyman persona has appeal in a city where even white-collar, well-heeled season-ticket holders are apt to describe themselves as blue-collar fans. During the season, he lives in a condominium in South Philadelphia not far from the ballpark.
 ''I'm cool with everybody,'' says Howard, who is single and has a 6-year-old son from a former relationship. ''The fans have been nothing but nice to me. I'll walk around the city and people will come up to me and say 'Hi' or 'Keep up the good work' or whatever, and I'll stop and talk to them.''
 Baseball is the most hidebound of American sports. It manufactures and honors tradition, myth and superstition. And it probably also has a greater share of ignorance than other sports. The entire movement toward once-obscure and newly developed statistics, after all -- begun by Bill James and others, some of them now in the employ of big-league teams -- came about because professional baseball people drew erroneous conclusions from the same old numbers they loved so much.
 A certain amount of ignorance, on the part of baseball executives, most likely impeded Ryan Howard's baseball progress. A man his size is not easily overlooked. But his career trajectory strongly suggests that his talent was underappreciated. He was not a coveted prospect out of high school and went to Southwest Missouri State to play baseball. After the Phillies selected him in the fifth round of the 2001 draft, he began a slow, four-and-a-half-season climb through the minor leagues, making stops in five different minor-league towns and hitting for power and a decent average in each of them.
 In 2004, splitting time between Double A and Triple A, he hit 46 home runs and knocked in 131 runs, the kind of performance that ought to bring about a promotion to the big leagues -- especially considering that Howard was already 24. But the Phillies had a veteran at first base, Jim Thome, to whom they had paid millions as a free agent, and Howard began the 2005 season in Scranton, Pa., back in Triple A.
 Thome was signed after Howard had already been a Phillies minor leaguer for two seasons; another team, recognizing what it had in Howard, might have spent its free-agent money elsewhere to avoid a logjam at first base. But the Phillies, with no postseason appearances since 1993, have not been the canniest of franchises.
 From his parents, who lived through the civil rights struggle in Birmingham and often talked to their children about that era, Howard already knew something about patience and perspective. He didn't much like being stuck in the minor leagues, but knew it wasn't the worst thing that could happen to a person. ''I learned what I could,'' he says of his years in the minors. His father says: ''We didn't see a frustration on Ryan's part. We saw a strong determination.''
 After Thome suffered a season-ending injury, Howard finally secured a full-time spot with the Phillies in 2005 -- and hit 22 home runs and earned the National League Rookie of the Year award while playing just a little over half a season. A player who can accomplish that at age 25 -- then follow it up with the season Howard had last year -- almost certainly could have held his own in the big leagues a couple of years earlier. And Howard's extended time in the minors cost him money. His salary last season was $355,000, a pittance by baseball's current economics. He is still a year from arbitration, and can't become a free agent until after the 2011 season, when he will be 32. He has not publicly made an issue of his contract, but recently he switched to a more prominent agent.
 In one sense, though, Howard was probably lucky to end up with the Phillies, whose manager, Charlie Manuel, while not much admired for his in-game strategy, is widely considered to have a deep knowledge of hitting. Howard was still in the low minor leagues when Manuel, then an assistant in the Phillies' front office, first saw him bat. Manuel noticed something unusual about Howard's style: he stood way off the plate, and his posture was oriented toward foul ground in left field, like a golfer who compensates for a wicked slice by aiming wide of the fairway.
 In Howard's case, he did not like to handle pitches inside, in on his hands, and his strength still allowed him to hit outside pitches a long way. So he took a stance that forced pitchers to throw the ball about a foot inside the plate to jam him. Manuel saw Howard hit a home run to left field and concluded that because of the way he was standing, it was more like a center- or right-field home run -- he had to pull the ball just to keep it fair.
 ''We got him straightened out a little bit, so it wasn't so extreme,'' Manuel says. ''He was the type of kid you always could talk to.''
 All hitters, though, have a way they want to hit, a style that feels natural. Howard's left-field orientation is still a large part of his approach. When he hits the ball to the left of second base, he almost always lifts it, which is what pitchers specifically try to avoid with home-run hitters: fly balls. When he pulls the ball, he hits more ground balls and low line drives with top spin -- the type that do not carry over fences. ''The amazing thing is, even with all those home runs, Ryan's still learning to pull it,'' says Milt Thompson, the Phillies' hitting coach. ''When he learns to clear his hips out of there and get the ball in the air, you'll really see something.''
 Pitchers defeat hitters with good pitches, of course, but all hitters have a way they get themselves out, the most common being a lack of patience. Instead of hoarding their energy -- their ''load'' or ''power load,'' as it is called in baseball -- they commit to a swing too soon, particularly on off-speed pitches, and by the time the bat meets the ball they have expended much of their power.
 Howard is different. When he gets himself out, it is more often the result of an overabundance of patience. He lets the ball get too close to his body and does not get the barrel of the bat fully around it. ''It's unusual in any player, let alone a big strong kid just into the league,'' Manuel says. ''But that's why Ryan hits the ball the way he does. He's rarely out in front of where he wants to be. He's got his full load intact when he does make contact.''
 Howard takes a slight uppercut, quick and compact. ''Ted Williams used to say, The longer the arc, the farther the ball will go,'' Manuel says. ''I say, The longer the arc, the slower the swing. Ryan has all the power he needs with that shorter arc.''
 After Howard and I were finished eating at O'Charley's and the table was cleared, I unpacked my laptop and we watched a sort of greatest-hits collection, a compilation of his home runs that the Phillies had copied onto a DVD. He enjoyed it -- what player wouldn't? -- but what struck me was how much he remembered. He came to the plate 704 times last season and saw 2,859 pitches, yet now he recalled pitch sequences from months before. He doesn't keep a notebook, as some hitters do, but it seems he doesn't have to.
 ''This is a pretty good AB,'' he said as we watched him step in for his at-bat against the New York Mets' Guillermo Mota. ''He was mixing it up pretty good. Fastballs, change-ups, inside, outside.'' After eight pitches, including several foul balls, the count was full. Mota threw a change-up, and Howard barely managed to foul it off. ''That was a tough pitch -- nasty,'' he said. ''Here comes the fastball now.'' The next pitch was indeed a fastball, which Howard hit over the center-field fence for his 47th home run.
 Not surprisingly, considering he is the son of a computer programmer, Howard talks about hitting as if each at-bat is a problem to be solved: ''If the pitcher is one you've faced before, you have to be thinking, How did he try to get me out? He might try something different this time, but you have to have that in the back of your mind. Each at-bat and each pitch you have a game plan that comes about from processing all the information you have.''
 Mike Arbuckle, who is in charge of the Phillies' minor-league system, told me: ''Ryan has the aptitude and the intelligence to maximize all that natural ability he has. To be honest with you, there are more guys who aren't that way than are. And he also has the inner drive to want to apply all that intelligence, and that's not always the case, either.''
 The DVD included Howard's big game against Tim Hudson. After we watched the last home run, the line drive to left field, Howard said he would have had no idea, as he swung, that the pitch was outside. ''That's the point at which you can't be thinking about anything,'' he said. ''You have a game plan, but then it's instinct. You just see the pitch and go after it.''
 The camera followed Howard into the dugout after that last home run, then back out onto the top step, where he waved to acknowledge the home crowd's standing ovation. Together, we were watching him at a moment of maximum glory -- the Slugger in full -- but he seemed to want to deflect attention from himself, to display, as always, proper baseball demeanor.
 In the background, we caught a glimpse of Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins, who seemed to be laughing with a kind of wide-eyed, can-you-believe-this expression on his face. ''Look at Jimmy,'' Ryan Howard said, his own face breaking into a grin. ''He seems like he got a big kick out of that, doesn't he?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (Photo by Stephen Wilkes)
 (Photo by Stephen Wilkes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (87%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); GEORGIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2007



85 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Play; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4617 words

HEADLINE: Ryan Howard, No Asterisk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a frequent contributor to Play.

 BODY:
What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in slow motion, and you start your swing with a short stride, a subtle shift of weight and a powerful forward thrust of the hips. Your hands follow and then, finally, the barrel of the bat comes whipping through the hitting zone and -- crack! -- connects with the ball, sending it on a majestic arc into the upper deck.
 Just once, right? To be that most American of sports icons: the Slugger. 
Now, here is Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia Phillies on Sept. 3, 2006. He is a baby in baseball years, still in his first full big-league season, but a man-child at the plate: 6-foot-4, 250-plus pounds and big all over. He has biceps that it would take two large hands to fully encircle, thick-muscled forearms and -- more noticeable in the locker room than on the field, where he wears a baggy uniform top -- a surprisingly ample midsection. Howard is Ruthian, only bigger. Even his round, expressive face -- quick to break into a smile, more open and inviting than the typical impassive countenance of the big-time pro athlete -- seems extra large.
 He takes his place in the left batter's box at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, a hitter's paradise -- not that the dimensions of a ballpark matter much to him. Legend has it that Howard hit his first 400-foot home run at age 12, a blast that rocketed over an outfield fence and smacked against the side of a Red Lobster restaurant.
 On this Sunday afternoon, the opposing pitcher is Tim Hudson of the Atlanta Braves, a veteran with stuff that is more clever than overpowering. Hudson's pitches have what is called late movement -- they sink, dart and sail, leaving hitters waving at air or topping harmless ground balls.
 Howard, batting cleanup, leads off the bottom of the second inning. He has, at this point, 49 home runs, an astonishing number for early September. He has already surpassed the team record for home runs in a season, held by Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt, and he is two away from Ralph Kiner's mark for second-year players, set in 1947. (Howard became a full-time big leaguer in July 2005.)
 The act of hitting a baseball is an energy transfer: from the body to the bat to the ball. Just before Hudson rocks into his wind-up, Howard, a lefty, uses his right hand to point his 34-ounce bat at a 45-degree angle directly over the pitcher's head. This is a timing device, although, as Howard has become one of the game's most prodigious home-run hitters, it can easily be taken as a boast. Follow the angle of the bat and it suggests a trajectory straight out over the center-field fence.
 He brings the bat back as Hudson readies, grips it with both hands and cocks his left (back) elbow. His focus now is on ''staying quiet,'' as he puts it -- being still. He wants no energy to leak out until it can be put to its proper use. His knees are flexed, his weight set back in his stance. Only his wrists are moving, just slightly, causing the top of the bat to wave like a flag in a limp breeze.
 The first pitch is a slider, bearing in on Howard's shoe tops. He explodes out of his stance and brings the barrel of the bat down solidly on the ball -- sending a towering drive over the right-center-field wall. Home run No. 50.
 Hudson stands at the back of the mound and looks toward the outfield long after the ball has cleared the wall. He stares at the replay on the scoreboard, as if thinking to himself, He hit that pitch where?
 Second at-bat: Hudson throws his first pitch near Howard's head, which he casually avoids by leaning back. ''No big deal,'' Howard tells me later. ''You kind of have to expect that.'' After a foul ball, he sends Hudson's third offering -- a fat pitch about belt high -- deep over the center-field wall, in the same general direction as the first one, only quite a bit farther. Home run No. 51.
 Third at-bat: With the count at one ball and two strikes Hudson throws a sinker that veers low and away, a pitch that is meant to tempt Howard to swing at something he can't reach -- or, if he does, can't hit solidly. Howard extends his massive arms and hits a line drive to left field, which clears the wall nearly as quickly as a spectator can locate it with his eyes. Home run No. 52.
 Three at-bats. Three home runs.
 Out on the mound, Hudson looks more bemused than angry. He had put that last pitch right where he intended. ''You kind of scratch your head after that,'' he tells reporters gathered at his locker after the game. ''What the hell are you going to do next?''
 Ryan Howard felt a surge of pleasure when he connected on those three swings. He heard the crowd's roar, knew for sure that the second two balls would clear the outfield walls. (The first just cleared the fence, and Howard had taken off hard toward first base out of the batter's box.) But there was a lack of actual physical sensation, or at least one that is easily described -- that weird nothingness of hitting a ball, with force and perfect timing, right on the sweet spot of a baseball bat.
 It is an odd neurological loop: job well done, but you know it only because there's no unpleasant message to the contrary. ''You feel a lot more in your hands if the pitch gets in on you and busts you in the handle,'' Howard says. ''It stings. But when you catch it square, it doesn't seem like you feel it as much.''
 Last season, Howard had 58 home runs, a total exceeded by only five men in baseball history -- Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Roger Maris and Babe Ruth. Twenty-eight of Howard's home runs either tied the game or put the Phillies ahead, and he knocked in a major-league-leading 149 runs -- including 42 in August, the most r.b.i. by a player in a single month in 34 years. He was the National League player of the month in both August and September, and after the season, he was voted the league's Most Valuable Player.
 As every baseball fan knows, the game is awash in statistics, some more telling than others. One esoteric stat is particularly enlightening in Howard's case: his home-run-to-fly-ball ratio of 39.5 percent. What that means is that of every 10 fair balls he hits in the air, about 4 end up as home runs. The player with the next highest ratio last year, Travis Hafner of the Cleveland Indians, had a ratio of 30.2.
 There is a feast-or-famine aspect to Howard's hitting: he strikes out a lot -- 181 times last season, the second most in the majors -- so he doesn't put as many balls in play as others do in the same number of at-bats. But as his teammate Aaron Rowand says: ''When he hits it, he hits it. Ryan doesn't hit a lot of bloopers.''
 The majority of Howard's home runs went to left or center field, the mark of a hitter who is powerful enough not to have to pull balls to reach the seats, and several landed in places rarely reached by batted balls. Last April in Philadelphia, Howard hit a dead-center-field home run that was measured at 496 feet.
 It is impossible, of course, to think about power hitting these days without wondering about performance-enhancing drugs. Bonds, McGwire and Sosa all played in what is now commonly called baseball's Steroid Era, and suspicion has fallen on each of them. On the subject of sports and chemical enhancement, the first rule is never to assume guilt -- or innocence. Surprises lurk. But Howard, big from the womb, a lifelong slugger, is generally assumed around baseball to be clean. (Howard is subject to Major League Baseball's drug-testing policy, which calls for players to be tested for steroids, amphetamines and certain other substances once in spring training and at least one other time during the season. He was also tested in the minor leagues.)
 In mid-September, a ball hit by Howard at Minute Maid Park in Houston caromed off the glove of a 10-year-old fan in the left-field seats and fell back into the outfield. Television replays clearly showed that it should have been called a home run, but the third-base umpire ruled the ball in play. After the game, Astros first baseman Lance Berkman had an interesting reaction, telling reporters, ''I hope it doesn't cost him the steroid-free home run record.''
 It didn't. Howard would have fallen short of Maris's 61 home runs, anyway -- mainly because he became so terrifying to opposing managers that they started walking him at every possible opportunity. He was second in the majors with 37 intentional walks, several of them issued in situations that rarely call for such a move.
 For example, in a late-September game, Frank Robinson, then managing the Washington Nationals, twice ordered Howard to be walked in extra innings -- once with the bases empty and two outs, another time with a runner on first who then moved into scoring position as a potential game-winning run. After a game the night before, during which Robinson challenged Howard in a key spot, Robinson told me: ''Every hitter has vulnerabilities. No reason not to attack them.'' When I asked him the next night why he seemed to lose courage, he said: ''Didn't want to press my luck. Ryan is a very strong young man.''
 Physicists who have studied hitting toss around terms like ''bat speed,'' ''torque'' and ''rotational mechanics.'' It is fair to say that strength generally promotes bat speed and home-run power. Howard comes from a family of big people and, by appearance, is what used to be called ''country strong.''
 Howard and I met one day near his off-season home, in suburban St. Louis, amid a landscape of tract houses and what looked like an endless expanse of strip shopping centers and chain restaurants. He had just finished one of his three-hour, five-times-a-week workouts, which consist mostly of weight training. He had been dieting, too, eating more vegetables and fewer fried foods. 
 We took a seat at the restaurant he chose, a place called O'Charley's, which featured an oversize menu of American favorites. When his grilled chicken was put down in front of him, he looked displeased and immediately lifted it with his fork. ''I sure hope they put my mashed potatoes under there,'' he said. When he came upon a mound of them, he brightened up. He continued stabbing at a bowl of tortilla chips, loading them up with salsa. ''Do me a favor,'' he told me. ''Eat some of these. Help me out. I'm trying to be good.''
 Howard's power surge at the end of last season brought about something unprecedented in recent baseball history. By July, the Phillies had surrendered the season -- and sort of the next one, too. The general manager, Pat Gillick, had traded off important players -- the starting right fielder and third baseman, a starting pitcher, a key left-handed relief pitcher -- and told the team's fans not to expect the Phillies to be contenders until 2008. Such housecleaning happens every season in baseball: lesser teams build for the future by trading veterans for prospects.
 What doesn't happen is what the Phillies did next, which was to climb back into the playoff race, largely on the back of Howard, who in the season's second half hit .355 with 30 home runs and 78 r.b.i. By August, Gillick had reversed course and was acquiring veteran talent for the stretch run. (The Phillies were finally eliminated from the wild-card playoff spot on the last weekend of the season.)
 Howard, respectful of baseball custom, strives for modesty. Understatement is a much-admired quality in baseball. When I talked to him about the home-run-to-fly-ball ratio, he had no idea what his was (or that anyone even kept such a stat). But when I asked him to guess how many of his fly balls cleared the fences, his answer seemed like a true measure of his estimation of his own abilities. ''I don't know,'' he said. ''Six out of 10? Seven out of 10?''
 In some ways, Howard is the anti-Barry Bonds, who looms over the coming baseball season like an unwelcome guest at a dinner party. Bonds, an outfielder with the San Francisco Giants, is 22 home runs from surpassing Hank Aaron's record of 755. For a great many baseball fans, his grim pursuit will be a cause for dismay more than celebration. Even before the steroid allegations, Bonds was one of the game's sour personalities, unloved by fans outside his home city and often reviled by his own teammates.
 Howard, by contrast, is cordial with the press, well liked in the clubhouse and much more likely to offer fans a smile and an autograph than a scowl. He arrives early for games and can usually be found with his big frame folded into an easy chair or couch in front of a large TV, watching videos with teammates. He gets high marks for his ''demeanor.'' Baseball people use the word constantly, and it serves as a catchall for many things: a player's work habits; his ability to stay on a steady emotional keel whether he has hit a couple of home runs or struck out four times; his relationships among teammates and coaches.
 ''Ryan is just a very easy guy to be around,'' the Phillies' manager, Charlie Manuel, says. ''You couldn't ask for a guy with a better demeanor.''
 Howard, though, does share one similarity with Bonds, a significant one within the context of baseball's changing sociology: he is an African-American player at a moment when the number of American-born blacks in the major leagues has dropped strikingly. In 2005, the National League champion Houston Astros had no black players on their World Series roster, the first time that was the case for a team in half a century. At one point last season, six teams in Major League Baseball did not have a single black player on their rosters. Below the professional level, there are so few blacks in the game that many of the nation's historically black colleges are fielding baseball teams made up mostly of white and Hispanic players. (The Washington Post reported that Coppin State University in Baltimore had 30 white male students enrolled in 2006; roughly half of them were on the baseball team.)
 Black players now make up about 9 percent of big-league rosters -- down from 19 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1975. Hispanics, at 29 percent, have become the dominant minority in the game.
 So how did Ryan Howard become a baseball player? Part of the answer is that he comes from where many of the game's white players do -- a largely white suburb. He grew up in Wildwood, Mo., on the outer edge of St. Louis's western sprawl. His mother, Cheryl, now retired, worked in marketing, and his father, Ron, is a manager for I.B.M. He has three siblings, including a fraternal twin, all of whom are college-educated professionals.
 Ron and Cheryl Howard don't consider themselves particularly athletic. ''I could play everything, just not well,'' Ron told me. Cheryl Howard added: ''I'm from the pre-Title IX days, so I didn't get a chance to play organized sports. But my father played sandlot baseball with Willie Mays in Birmingham, so we've decided Ryan's baseball talent comes through my side.''
 When Ryan Howard was 2, his father walked into a room where a TV was showing a baseball game and saw his son intent on the action and swinging a little red bat. ''It was such a natural swing,'' Ron Howard says. ''At that moment I knew he'd be some kind of baseball player. How far? I didn't know. But that feeling came over me.''
 To be blessed with hand-eye coordination and the strength to mash a baseball 500 feet ought to fill a man with self-assurance. But pro sports are full of gifted players with cracks in their psyches who on some career-killing level do not fully believe in themselves. Howard's upbringing seems to have imbued him with a sense of self that extends well beyond his abilities on the ball field.
 As his parents describe it, their household was a mix of old-time Southern values and middle-class aspiration. ''All our kids were taught to say 'Yes, sir,' 'Yes, ma'am' and so on,'' Ron Howard says. ''We valued hard work and taught them: believe in oneself, believe in each other and believe in the Almighty.''
 There were, as well, some quirkier rules. For example, Ron taught everyone to drive using a standard shift, which he considers an essential life skill, and made them take their driving tests in a car with a stick shift. ''No, they weren't pleased about it,'' he recalls, ''but it was a binary situation. You do it this way if you want to drive -- or the other way if you don't want to drive.''
 Howard played a lot of soccer as a kid. He was a good high school basketball player. He also played the trombone in the school band. He played a little football, but his mother insisted he give it up because she believed he risked injury by being such a large target.
 Ryan Howard says that he was one of just a handful of black players on most of his youth baseball teams. His sports heroes were Barry Bonds, Ken Griffey Jr., Tony Gwynn. ''I guess you can throw Michael in there,'' he adds, meaning Michael Jordan, but he makes it sound like an obligation. He was focused on baseball.
 In Philadelphia, Howard faces the particular challenge of playing for a team with famously demanding (and sometimes abusive) fans -- and in a city with a particularly shameful history of mistreating black baseball players. The Phillies were the last team in the National League to sign a black player -- in 1957, a full decade after Jackie Robinson's debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Robinson himself suffered such abuse from the Phillies that he later wrote that they were ''a Northern team that I had come to associate with the Deep South.''
 Other than Howard, the Phillies have had just one black superstar: Dick Allen, then known as ''Richie,'' a fearsome slugger but a rebel and a turbulent soul who endured such mind-bending abuse from the home crowd that after six years in Philadelphia he was scratching cryptic messages with his spikes in the infield dirt. (Among them, ''Mom,'' ''Boo'' and ''Oct. 2,'' the date of the last game of the 1969 season.)
 Sometimes, though, a certain athlete and a city just seem like a good match. Howard drives a GMC Yukon with 100,000-plus miles and is not much for fancy clothes or late nights. His Everyman persona has appeal in a city where even white-collar, well-heeled season-ticket holders are apt to describe themselves as blue-collar fans. During the season, he lives in a condominium in South Philadelphia not far from the ballpark.
 ''I'm cool with everybody,'' says Howard, who is single and has a 6-year-old son from a former relationship. ''The fans have been nothing but nice to me. I'll walk around the city and people will come up to me and say 'Hi' or 'Keep up the good work' or whatever, and I'll stop and talk to them.''
 Baseball is the most hidebound of American sports. It manufactures and honors tradition, myth and superstition. And it probably also has a greater share of ignorance than other sports. The entire movement toward once-obscure and newly developed statistics, after all -- begun by Bill James and others, some of them now in the employ of big-league teams -- came about because professional baseball people drew erroneous conclusions from the same old numbers they loved so much.
 A certain amount of ignorance, on the part of baseball executives, most likely impeded Ryan Howard's baseball progress. A man his size is not easily overlooked. But his career trajectory strongly suggests that his talent was underappreciated. He was not a coveted prospect out of high school and went to Southwest Missouri State to play baseball. After the Phillies selected him in the fifth round of the 2001 draft, he began a slow, four-and-a-half-season climb through the minor leagues, making stops in five different minor-league towns and hitting for power and a decent average in each of them.
 In 2004, splitting time between Double A and Triple A, he hit 46 home runs and knocked in 131 runs, the kind of performance that ought to bring about a promotion to the big leagues -- especially considering that Howard was already 24. But the Phillies had a veteran at first base, Jim Thome, to whom they had paid millions as a free agent, and Howard began the 2005 season in Scranton, Pa., back in Triple A.
 Thome was signed after Howard had already been a Phillies minor leaguer for two seasons; another team, recognizing what it had in Howard, might have spent its free-agent money elsewhere to avoid a logjam at first base. But the Phillies, with no postseason appearances since 1993, have not been the canniest of franchises.
 From his parents, who lived through the civil rights struggle in Birmingham and often talked to their children about that era, Howard already knew something about patience and perspective. He didn't much like being stuck in the minor leagues, but knew it wasn't the worst thing that could happen to a person. ''I learned what I could,'' he says of his years in the minors. His father says: ''We didn't see a frustration on Ryan's part. We saw a strong determination.''
 After Thome suffered a season-ending injury, Howard finally secured a full-time spot with the Phillies in 2005 -- and hit 22 home runs and earned the National League Rookie of the Year award while playing just a little over half a season. A player who can accomplish that at age 25 -- then follow it up with the season Howard had last year -- almost certainly could have held his own in the big leagues a couple of years earlier. And Howard's extended time in the minors cost him money. His salary last season was $355,000, a pittance by baseball's current economics. He is still a year from arbitration, and can't become a free agent until after the 2011 season, when he will be 32. He has not publicly made an issue of his contract, but recently he switched to a more prominent agent.
 In one sense, though, Howard was probably lucky to end up with the Phillies, whose manager, Charlie Manuel, while not much admired for his in-game strategy, is widely considered to have a deep knowledge of hitting. Howard was still in the low minor leagues when Manuel, then an assistant in the Phillies' front office, first saw him bat. Manuel noticed something unusual about Howard's style: he stood way off the plate, and his posture was oriented toward foul ground in left field, like a golfer who compensates for a wicked slice by aiming wide of the fairway.
 In Howard's case, he did not like to handle pitches inside, in on his hands, and his strength still allowed him to hit outside pitches a long way. So he took a stance that forced pitchers to throw the ball about a foot inside the plate to jam him. Manuel saw Howard hit a home run to left field and concluded that because of the way he was standing, it was more like a center- or right-field home run -- he had to pull the ball just to keep it fair.
 ''We got him straightened out a little bit, so it wasn't so extreme,'' Manuel says. ''He was the type of kid you always could talk to.''
 All hitters, though, have a way they want to hit, a style that feels natural. Howard's left-field orientation is still a large part of his approach. When he hits the ball to the left of second base, he almost always lifts it, which is what pitchers specifically try to avoid with home-run hitters: fly balls. When he pulls the ball, he hits more ground balls and low line drives with top spin -- the type that do not carry over fences. ''The amazing thing is, even with all those home runs, Ryan's still learning to pull it,'' says Milt Thompson, the Phillies' hitting coach. ''When he learns to clear his hips out of there and get the ball in the air, you'll really see something.''
 Pitchers defeat hitters with good pitches, of course, but all hitters have a way they get themselves out, the most common being a lack of patience. Instead of hoarding their energy -- their ''load'' or ''power load,'' as it is called in baseball -- they commit to a swing too soon, particularly on off-speed pitches, and by the time the bat meets the ball they have expended much of their power.
 Howard is different. When he gets himself out, it is more often the result of an overabundance of patience. He lets the ball get too close to his body and does not get the barrel of the bat fully around it. ''It's unusual in any player, let alone a big strong kid just into the league,'' Manuel says. ''But that's why Ryan hits the ball the way he does. He's rarely out in front of where he wants to be. He's got his full load intact when he does make contact.''
 Howard takes a slight uppercut, quick and compact. ''Ted Williams used to say, The longer the arc, the farther the ball will go,'' Manuel says. ''I say, The longer the arc, the slower the swing. Ryan has all the power he needs with that shorter arc.''
 After Howard and I were finished eating at O'Charley's and the table was cleared, I unpacked my laptop and we watched a sort of greatest-hits collection, a compilation of his home runs that the Phillies had copied onto a DVD. He enjoyed it -- what player wouldn't? -- but what struck me was how much he remembered. He came to the plate 704 times last season and saw 2,859 pitches, yet now he recalled pitch sequences from months before. He doesn't keep a notebook, as some hitters do, but it seems he doesn't have to.
 ''This is a pretty good AB,'' he said as we watched him step in for his at-bat against the New York Mets' Guillermo Mota. ''He was mixing it up pretty good. Fastballs, change-ups, inside, outside.'' After eight pitches, including several foul balls, the count was full. Mota threw a change-up, and Howard barely managed to foul it off. ''That was a tough pitch -- nasty,'' he said. ''Here comes the fastball now.'' The next pitch was indeed a fastball, which Howard hit over the center-field fence for his 47th home run.
 Not surprisingly, considering he is the son of a computer programmer, Howard talks about hitting as if each at-bat is a problem to be solved: ''If the pitcher is one you've faced before, you have to be thinking, How did he try to get me out? He might try something different this time, but you have to have that in the back of your mind. Each at-bat and each pitch you have a game plan that comes about from processing all the information you have.''
 Mike Arbuckle, who is in charge of the Phillies' minor-league system, told me: ''Ryan has the aptitude and the intelligence to maximize all that natural ability he has. To be honest with you, there are more guys who aren't that way than are. And he also has the inner drive to want to apply all that intelligence, and that's not always the case, either.''
 The DVD included Howard's big game against Tim Hudson. After we watched the last home run, the line drive to left field, Howard said he would have had no idea, as he swung, that the pitch was outside. ''That's the point at which you can't be thinking about anything,'' he said. ''You have a game plan, but then it's instinct. You just see the pitch and go after it.''
 The camera followed Howard into the dugout after that last home run, then back out onto the top step, where he waved to acknowledge the home crowd's standing ovation. Together, we were watching him at a moment of maximum glory -- the Slugger in full -- but he seemed to want to deflect attention from himself, to display, as always, proper baseball demeanor.
 In the background, we caught a glimpse of Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins, who seemed to be laughing with a kind of wide-eyed, can-you-believe-this expression on his face. ''Look at Jimmy,'' Ryan Howard said, his own face breaking into a grin. ''He seems like he got a big kick out of that, doesn't he?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (Photo by Stephen Wilkes)
 (Photo by Stephen Wilkes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (87%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); GEORGIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2007



86 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: 2 + 20, and Other Hedge Fund Math

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
MANY people would jump at the chance to invest in hedge funds, which have mainly been available to only the very wealthy. But a new study finds that the funds' high fees make it unlikely that investors will improve their long-term performance by putting money into hedge funds. 
 The study, ''Portfolio Efficiency With Performance Fees,'' was written by Mark Kritzman, president and chief executive of Windham Capital Management, a money management firm in Boston. Mr. Kritzman also teaches a graduate course in financial engineering at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his article grew out of work begun by a few of his graduate students there. The article appeared in the Feb. 1 issue of Economics and Portfolio Strategy, a newsletter for institutional investors, published by Peter L. Bernstein. 
Hedge funds are largely unregulated and therefore are free of the restrictions that keep most mutual funds from pursuing untraditional investment strategies like selling short and investing in complex derivatives. As a result, hedge fund managers argue that they can produce impressive returns regardless of whether the stock and bond markets are going up or down or are trendless -- a feature that would be particularly welcome in turbulent weeks like the last one. But because hedge funds typically become subject to greater regulation once they have more than a small number of investors, in most cases they are limited to a few very wealthy individuals.
 Mr. Kritzman's article focuses on the effect of the fees that hedge funds charge. In addition to a percentage of assets under management, hedge funds typically also charge a percentage of their profits. The standard fee arrangement in the industry, known as ''2 and 20,'' is to charge 2 percent of assets under management and 20 percent of profits above a predetermined benchmark, like the London Interbank Offering Rate, or Libor. Mr. Kritzman found that the combined impact of such fees is so high as to greatly reduce the attractiveness of hedge funds.
 Consider a hypothetical portfolio that Mr. Kritzman put together. He divided it equally among 10 imaginary hedge funds, each of which he assumed would earn a long-term annualized return of seven percentage points above Libor, before fees -- an assumption that he says is realistic. Mr. Kritzman calculates that the 2-and-20 arrangement would cost this portfolio 3.8 percentage points a year. Given Libor's current level -- about 5.4 percent -- this implies that the hedge-fund basket would have an after-fees return of 8.6 percent, annualized.
 In an interview, Mr. Kritzman said the fees' effect on the portfolio was so sizable because of the ''asymmetry penalty'' resulting from the 20 percent cut of profits that the hedge funds earn. The funds do not share in investor losses -- but they reap a large share of the profits.
 To illustrate how these fees can add up, Mr. Kritzman conducted another experiment. He tried to determine how much a rational investor should allocate to this hypothetical portfolio of 10 hedge funds, when also given the opportunity to invest in a stock index fund and a bond index fund.
 Calculating the optimal allocation required Mr. Kritzman to make a number of assumptions about the two index funds, like how much they would earn, how volatile their returns would be and how their returns would correlate with each other and with those of his hypothetical group of hedge funds. Once those assumptions were made, it was a matter of simple math to calculate which allocation produced the greatest long-term return relative to the amount of risk incurred along the way.
 Mr. Kritzman found that, given these assumptions, the investor should allocate nothing to the basket of hedge funds and everything to the two index funds.
 It might appear as though Mr. Kritzman assumed too low a return for his basket of hedge funds. Data from Hedge Fund Research, a company in Chicago that tracks the industry, shows the average hedge fund to have gained 10.6 percent annualized, after fees, over the 10 years ended in December, in contrast to the 8.6 percent, annualized, that is implied by Mr. Kritzman's assumption. But he said his assumed return was reasonable because of a tendency of poor-performing hedge funds not to report data to firms that monitor the industry. 
 WHAT role did high fees play in his finding that an investor should allocate nothing to hedge funds? Mr. Kritzman recalculated the optimal allocation, assuming that hedge funds earned only a flat 2 percent of assets under management. (That fee would still be roughly a half percentage point more than that of the average actively managed stock mutual fund.) Using that assumption, he calculated that the optimal allocation would be much different: 74 percent to the hedge fund basket and 26 percent to the index funds.
 What about so-called funds of hedge funds, which have lower minimums and are therefore available to less-affluent investors? Mr. Kritzman says he finds it difficult to justify any allocation to funds of hedge funds, because they earn fees above and beyond those earned by the hedge funds in which they invest, typically 1 percent of funds under management and 10 percent of profits above a benchmark.
 The bottom line, Mr. Kritzman said, is this: ''Because of fees, the optimal allocation to a group of hedge funds is a lot lower than you might think it should be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (67%); BOND MARKETS (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hedge Funds 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%) Windham Capital Management

PERSON: Mark Hulbert; Mark Kritzman

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



87 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Immigration: A Tale of Three Cities

 BODY:
Connecticut does not speak with one voice on immigration. Far from it. Cities send their own messages, some welcoming, some divisive. No municipality can make up for the lack of a consistent federal policy on immigration, or change the tendency of the United States government to look the other way, which has allowed 11 million to move to this country illegally, most to find work. Breaking the law is not to be condoned, yet many illegal immigrants will probably wind up staying here. That is why the reactions of municipal governments to this issue are important. They will shape their communities for years to come. 
 Consider the following situations: 
In Stamford, Mayor Dannel Malloy directed the city to set up a ''no hassle'' zone where day laborers, who are often illegal immigrants, could make themselves available for work without being arrested for loitering or told to move away. Unless their inquiries are part of a criminal investigation, police do not generally ask about the citizenship of people they encounter, Mr. Malloy said. 
 New Haven has gone a step further. Last year, Police Chief Francisco Ortiz, with the blessing of Mayor John DeStefano, ordered his department in writing not to inquire about anyone's immigration status, and, if it is known, to keep it confidential outside of a criminal investigation. The ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy aims to encourage crime victims or witnesses to contact police. Mr. DeStefano's administration is also preparing to offer any city resident, by midyear, an official identification card to help residents open a bank account or get a library card. It will be available citywide, but its purpose is to encourage immigrants to keep large sums of money in the bank, not in their pockets. 
 ''These people have come here to make a better life for their children,'' said Kica Matos, the New Haven community services administrator, and the city is determined to help. 
 Then there's Danbury. 
 As his city increasingly became a magnet for illegal immigrants, the Republican mayor, Mark Boughton, began railing against failed federal policies and began a crackdown of his own. In 2005, he asked Gov. M. Jodi Rell to deputize state police as immigration officials. She refused. He then formed a nonprofit organization with a hardliner on Long Island, Steve Levy, the Suffolk county executive. Called Mayors and County Executives for Immigration Reform, it lobbies for changes in federal law. 
 The same year, he asked United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement to enforce federal law in Danbury. Dozens of arrests followed. In a case that outraged civil libertarians, 11 Ecuadoreans were arrested by immigration agents, one of whom dressed like a contractor seeking to hire day laborers. In January of this year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, with help from Danbury police, arrested six more people suspected of being illegal immigrants. Among those arrested was Tereza Pereira, 42, who came to the United States from Brazil 19 years ago. She owns a house in Danbury where she is raising two sons, ages 6 and 15. Ms. Pereira began the process of applying for citizenship 10 years ago, her lawyer said, but a series of errors and missed deadlines resulted in a deportation order, one which she was never told about. After spending two weeks imprisoned in Maine, a federal judge released Ms. Pereira and reopened her case. 
 Her situation elicits little sympathy from Mayor Boughton; undocumented workers, he says, should be worried. And they are. Some have left the city, others just lie low, enough so that merchants on a revitalized Main Street report a drop in business since the arrests became more common.
 It is clear that Danbury, with a population around 78,000, is under stress. Mayor Boughton believes the city has gained as many as 14,000 immigrants since 2000, many of them illegal, a number impossible to prove. But according to the Internal Revenue Service, Danbury has a higher percentage of noncitizens who pay federal income taxes than any other city in Connecticut; nearly 8 percent of federal income tax forms filed by Danbury residents contained no Social Security numbers. 
 Mayor Boughton ticks off other problems: soaring school enrollment, overcrowded housing, unlicensed drivers. It's not all bad news; unemployment in Danbury is low, as is crime.
 But while the mayor's stance may be legally correct, its sharp edges will ultimately divide the city. The federal immigration officials the mayor has invited into Danbury cannot arrest everyone. As a practical matter, most immigrants will remain, illegal or not. And there are nuances to which the mayor seems blind. Ms. Pereira, for example, may have come here illegally, but her two sons -- the older of which is an athlete and an honor student at Danbury High School -- are Americans. They have the right to make their homes here. Will they want to stay in Danbury in the current atmosphere? 
 Mayor Boughton is right that we need an overhaul of federal immigration policy. But until that occurs, a compassionate local response is in order, and for that Stamford and New Haven have set the standard. Mayor Boughton would do well to reconsider his approach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COUNTIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Editorials; Day Laborers

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (74%); M JODI RELL (59%) Mark (Mayor) Boughton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (89%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Stamford (Conn); New Haven (Conn); Danbury (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



88 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: A Tremor in Shanghai Is Felt Around the World

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Stock markets declined around the world last week after the Shanghai market dropped steeply on Tuesday. On Wall Street, stocks had their worst weekly performance since January 2003. 
 Shanghai's sharp decline on Tuesday followed, by one day, comments by Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, about the possibility of a recession in the United States in 2007. While Mr. Greenspan did not predict a recession, his remarks, made to executives in Hong Kong, rattled some investors.
When the markets opened in New York on Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average lost more than 400 points. The United States stock market bounced back somewhat on Wednesday, but closed lower on Thursday and Friday. 
 For the week, the Dow lost 533.38 points, or 4.2 percent, to close at 12,114.10. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 64.02 points, or 4.4 percent, to close at 1,387.17. The Nasdaq composite index had a bigger decline on a percentage basis. It dropped 147.10 points, or 5.8 percent, to close at 2,368. 
 For the week, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield dropped sharply, to 4.50 percent from 4.67 percent. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.RadioShackNYSE: RSHThe electronics retail chain said that its fourth-quarter profit jumped 64 percent, as lower costs more than offset a decline in revenue and same-store sales. The company also offered a bullish forecast for 2007. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.56WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.58%EST. '07 P/E: 22.98Great Atlantic And Pacific TeaNYSE: GAPThe owner of the A.& P., Waldbaum's and Food Emporium supermarket chains said that it was in talks to acquire Pathmark Stores for $652.5 million. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $30.86WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.68%EST. '07 P/E: -- TXUNYSE: TXUThe Dallas-based utility, which has accepted an offer to be bought for $45 billion in what would be the largest leveraged buyout ever, reported a 33 percent gain in profit, despite weak sales caused by mild winter weather. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $66.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.80%EST. '07 P/E: 12.37MotorolaNYSE: MOTShares of the cellphone maker rose after the company said that it had received notice that Carl C. Icahn is increasing his holdings of Motorola stock. Mr. Icahn has demanded a seat on the company's board. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.64WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.66%EST. '07 P/E: 15.53Martha Stewart Living OmnimediaNYSE: MSOThe media company said that its fourth-quarter profit increased sharply over the same period a year earlier, and it projected sales for the current year above analysts' forecasts. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.77WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.52%EST. '07 P/E: 65.86Baidu.comNNM: BIDUAlong with the shares of many other Chinese companies listed in the United States, shares of Baidu.com, the Chinese Internet portal, fell on the Nasdaq after markets in China took a tumble on Tuesday. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $102.12WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.48%EST. '07 P/E: 51.97Dean FoodsNYSE: DFThe nation's biggest milk company said it plans to pay a one-time cash dividend of $15 a share, delivering an estimated $2 billion to owners of its stock. The dividend is payable April 2 to shareholders of record March 27. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $47.03WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.11%EST. '07 P/E: 19.86Berkshire HathawayNYSE: BRKAWarren E. Buffett told shareholders in his annual letter that he is looking for someone else to take over his investment duties when he dies because Louis A. Simpson, 70, the second-in-line, is getting old. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $107,000WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.19%EST. '07 P/E: 19.19(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%) Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



89 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Sit Down for a Chat With Hedge Fund Movers

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES was a day trader. Besides his own fortune, he invested the money of his employer, King's College of Cambridge University. From 1928 to 1945, when British equities shrank 0.5 percent a year on average, Keynes earned the college an annualized return of 13.2 percent, wagering on stocks and bonds, but also currencies and commodities, using insight into global events.
 We are all Keynesians now.
Sure, after the 1945 Bretton Woods agreement on a regulated international financial regime (of sorts), domestic stock investing predominated. Innovators like A. W. Jones picked equities both to rise (long) and to fall (short), hedging his bets -- hence his term ''hedge fund.'' 
 But when Bretton Woods broke down for good in 1971, currencies floated freely, and the era of foreign exchange and commodities ''speculators'' like George Soros and Julian H. Robertson Jr. ensued. During the three decades up to 1999, Mr. Soros's fund returned more than 30 percent a year on average. Clients who invested $100,000 with him in 1969 would have had $420 million by 2000. 
 The tech crash in the spring of 2000 seemed to end the party, but like all financial carnage it just multiplied the vultures.
 What Keynes pioneered in so-called alternative investments has become an industry of some 12,000 diverse hedge funds, managing -- if that's the right word -- not just the private wealth of the rich, but also institutional endowments and public pension funds, along with a saturnalia of borrowed capital that draws in the global banking system.
 ''Inside the House of Money'' by Steven Drobny (Wiley, $29.95) pulls back the curtain, slightly. This is less a book of sustained narration or explanation than a notebook of interviews developed from exclusive confabs sponsored by the author's consulting firm, Drobny Global Advisors. Still, the ruminations of supposedly hush-hush hedge fund operators are richly illuminating, and much less expensive than the fees they charge.
 Nowadays, ''hedge fund'' signifies a legal and performance compensation structure, not an investment strategy. Mr. Drobny focuses on the style of ''global macro,'' which he defines as investing in any asset class anywhere in the world. He dwells little on crucial differences in investment time horizons. 
 But today, he says, all investments, even mutual funds, ''are subject to changes in the world economy, the U.S. dollar, global equities, global interest rates'' and other factors, not to mention wars. ''Global macro,'' Yra Harris, the Chicago-based trader, tells Mr. Drobny, ''used to be called 'geopolitics.' '' 
 The author shows us human beings, not forces of darkness. Many of the 13 interviewees reveal getting a head start from friends of friends and fellow alumni. Some draw inspiration from ''Reminiscences of a Stock Operator'' by Edwin Lefevre (1923). Several acknowledge harvesting ideas from The Economist. Most now run their own funds, but few enjoy managing people or even portfolios. They love managing risk.
 A number of themes emerge. First, despite prodigious research, their brilliant ideas can go awry.
 ''If I've gotten better at it,'' the industry legend Jim Rogers tells Mr. Drobny, echoing others, ''it's because I've made enough mistakes.'' 
 Another says that ''my favorite trades are when I'm wrong and I get out without losing too much money.'' 
 Second, trading and analysis entail different mojo. Mr. Drobny's business partner, the analyst Andres Drobny -- no relation -- says the crucial skill is not just reading a crystal ball on the world, but translating an insight into a trade. 
 Third, incentives have become perverse. In a $10 billion hedge fund, one purist complains, the 2 percent management fee amounts to $200 million, whatever the performance, and as soon as the fund goes up 10 percent, that's another $200 million (20 percent of the $1 billion profit), meaning that the manager can ''close out positions and take the rest of the year off.'' So much for absolute return.
 Full-blooded characters enliven the text. Jim Leitner, a former graduate student in international finance and Russian studies who grew up in Germany and Turkey, bounced from one trainee position to another before landing at Bankers Trust in 1985. In 1997, he founded Falcon Management, behind a gas pump in Wyckoff, N.J., where he apparently amassed 10 percent of the international market in Turkish lira.
 In 1999, when an earthquake caused Turkey's stock market to collapse, Mr. Leitner bought shares in Turkish glass companies, anticipating replacement demand. He still follows megatrends and aggregated country data, but he also bores deeply into specific companies abroad. Good global macro has become global micro.
 Dwight Anderson, a commodities specialist and an alumnus of Princeton's history department (where this reviewer teaches), started as a manufacturing consultant, visiting factories. Then he was hired by Tiger Management, Julian Robertson's firm, to help run a commodities desk. After crunching the numbers on palladium, Mr. Anderson staked out mines in Arctic Siberia and subtropical South Africa, confirming what the data indicated -- a looming supply deficit. Tiger bet that prices would climb. Prices fell.
 ''Julian would always ask, 'Are we right in this situation?' '' Mr. Anderson recalls. '' 'If so, we should be bigger. It doesn't matter that prices moved against us.' '' They doubled down. Eventually, the price of palladium exploded to more than $1,000 an ounce, from $120.
 Successes like that allow you to be wrong a lot and still trounce the Street. But, Mr. Anderson says, ''as Tiger got to be upwards of $25 billion, positions had to be massive to be meaningful.'' Size helps until it hurts.
 What is this select group's collective prognosis? Shakeout.
 Peter Thiel, whose Clarium Capital charges no annual fee but takes 25 percent of any profits, maintains that ''we are living in a world distorted by the biggest financial bubble ever seen,'' adding that ''there has to be a deleveraging of the world's financial system.''
 Scott Bessent, who ran Mr. Soros's London office when it ''broke'' the Bank of England, shorting the pound in 1992, suggests that what has changed is that now ''your biggest risk can be how your competitor is positioned.'' Welcome to game theory.
 Yra Harris concurs that ''global risk is way out of line right now'' and that ''there's not enough liquidity to absorb a blowup.'' But he also says that it can be costly anticipating that something ugly is bound to happen, because it may not happen for a while. ''If you're right at the wrong time,'' Mr. Harris says, ''you're wrong.'' So they're all in.
 Whatever may befall us, many hedge fund types will be O.K. After all, Keynes invented their profession during the Great Depression.
 ''One of these days,'' concludes Sushil Wadhwani, a Keynes devotee and former Bank of England analyst, ''the chickens will come home to roost, and when they do, there'll be huge opportunity.''

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); CURRENCIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (88%); WRITERS (85%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); NEW ISSUES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LITERATURE (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Reviews; Books and Literature; Hedge Funds

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (68%) Stephen Kotkin; Steven Drobny

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



90 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-04-07: ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Sucker

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
''I would suggest moving back,'' said President Bush, from the cab of a yellow Caterpillar tractor at the company's East Peoria, Ill., plant. ''I'm about to crank this sucker up.'' He started the engine, watched a puff of smoke belch from the stack, steered the machine around the assembly line and announced, ''That was fun,'' as he got off.
The local press caught the carefully staged symbolism of a dynamic economy and global demand for American construction equipment, not to mention more well-paying jobs thanks to a free-trade policy. But the message that got through to language mavens around the English-speaking world was that another new meaning had been accepted, at the highest level of government, in the saga of a great old English word. 
 All of us who cavorted at the bee's-knees speak-easies in the 1920s, swilling bathtub gin and waving feather boas to the tune of the ''Charleston,'' fondly recall the image of Mary Louise (Texas) Guinan perched atop a stool in the middle of the El Fay Club in Manhattan, greeting every wide-eyed ''big butter-and-egg man'' from out of town with her trademark shout, ''Hello, sucker!'' 
 That roughly affectionate use of sucker was derived from its meaning of ''simpleton; a gullible mark often fooled, hoodwinked, swindled or otherwise easily taken advantage of.'' The metaphoric source, the Oxford English Dictionary informs us, is that of a young mammal before it is weaned from its mother's teat, calling to mind a picture of a suckling pig. The great lexicon's earliest citation in this sense is from an 1838 Toronto Patriot: ''It's true that pigs has their troubles like humans ... constables catches 'em, dogs bite 'em, and pigs is sometimes as done-over suckers as men.''
 That sense of gullibility was exemplified in several famous American sayings, like ''Never give a sucker an even break,'' falsely ascribed in the 1880s to the showman Phineas T. Barnum by a rival impresario. The Barnum biographer A. H. Saxton credits Paper Collar Joe Bessimer, a notorious confidence man, with ''There's a sucker born every minute, but none of them ever die.'' To be fair, the bumptious Barnum never claimed coinage; indeed, according to the Columbia World of Quotations, he later thanked his envious rival for the publicity. (P. T. Barnum is legendarily remembered for suckering his circus customers with a sly exit sign, ''This way to the egress,'' which enticed paying visitors to leave a crowded tent in the hope of seeing a live egress, presumably a caged female eager.) 
 Paper Collar Joe's born-every-minute aphorism lives: in a segment about outlandish gifts on ABC's ''Good Morning America,'' Diane Sawyer recently admitted buying a ''Memory Pillo,'' confessing, ''Because if there's a sucker born every minute, I'm the sucker born in my minute.'' In the 1936 film ''Poppy,'' W. C. Fields first said, ''Never give a sucker an even break,'' which reinforced the sense of a sucker being a born ''loser.''
 Other senses of the word live on inside longer locutions: vampires, always a popular attraction in horror movies, are bloodsuckers, and media pundits, proliferating madly in the blogosphere, present their views in what we like to call thumbsuckers. 
 Even so, many feel slightly uncomfortable using the verb suck or a noun built on it. In a column about teenage slang a few years back, I reported that the term being used to describe what we used to call soul-kissing, or French kissing -- a pleasurable form of osculation, if somewhat sloppy -- is now sucking face. Some readers found that phrase to be unsuitably descriptive, even odious, and urged that its users be banished to tonsil-hockey's penalty box. The same adult distaste is shown toward such innocent childlike derogations as ''Algebra sucks.''
 I ran this hidden concern past Grant Barrett, editor of Oxford's excellent political etymology, ''Hatchet Jobs and Hardball,'' a host of the KPBS public-radio show ''A Way With Words'' and whose ''Double-Tongued Dictionary'' is available at www.doubletongued.org. ''While it is debated regularly,'' he e-mails, ''some linguists and lexicographers do think that sucks, as it is currently used, such as 'Algebra sucks,' without a direct object, is probably not derived from longer forms.'' Obviously, other language scholars disagree and are free to send their always profound comments to one another on the American Dialect Society listserv because I must use my remaining space to deal with this question: Is there anything unduly suggestive or remotely lascivious about Bush's ''I'm about to crank this sucker up?''
 Not to anyone with clean hands and a pure heart. Here is Harry Smith, paragon of media virtue, on the CBS ''Early Show,'' displaying a large, expensive toy named PlayStation 3: ''We're going to show you how this sucker works.'' And here is Representative Phil Gingrey, Georgia Republican and a stalwart of the right, on a Democratic bill ordering Medicare to negotiate for lower drug prices: ''It's a loss for our seniors; we need to kill this sucker dead.'' And reaching back to 1969, John Denver's rendition of the romantic lyrics ''You dun stomped on my heart and mashed that sucker flat.'' 
 Sol Steinmetz, member of Olbom (On Language's Board of Octogenarian Mentors), is the voice of calm sagacity: ''Sucker in this context is a slang term that uses the standard word sucker for any unspecified thing, and is synonymous with other terms like dojigger, bugger, gizmo and others for 'a machine or contraption.' '' 
 If the reader will move back, I will zip this column to my copy editor in New York as soon as I can find the right thingamabob, doohickey, whatchamacallit, whoozadingy or sucker to hit on this weird ergonomic keyboard.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Lettering by Louise Fili and Steven Heller 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MAMMALS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%) English Language

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



91 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: Naughty Little Red Book; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: The People's Republic of Sex Kittens and Metrosexuals

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
WHEN Sports Illustrated's swimsuit issue hit the newsstands last week in China for the first time, with the sexy singer Beyonce on the cover, the competition was fierce.
 Readers here had already seen the February issue of For Him Magazine, which features a Chinese singer named A Duo on its cover wearing a white V-neck leotard that reveals every other inch of her rather substantial figure.
Inside, A Duo poses like a dominatrix, clutching her breasts, wrapping her naked body in celluloid and bending, sweat-drenched, over a submissive man.
 The racy For Him Magazine also offers tips on ''how to do it in five minutes'' (because a ''sex break is the same as a coffee break'') and features stories with titles like ''The Dangerous Sex Journey of QiQi.'' 
 The images and text would hardly be shocking to American or European readers. And the magazine's photographs are tame compared with what appears in magazines in Japan and other parts of Asia.
 But in China, where sex is still a taboo subject and pornography is outlawed by the ruling Communist Party, the images are not only highly provocative but perhaps the latest sign that sex and sexuality are infiltrating the mainstream media.
 And this powerful burst of sexual energy seems both a symbol of how rapidly China's transformation is unfolding and, to some, a harbinger of the troubles ahead for a nation that will inevitably struggle to absorb its newfound freedoms. ''There is a fine line between the open mind and sexual indulgence,'' said Xie Xialing, a professor of sociology at Fudan University in Shanghai.
 Even five years ago, Chinese books and magazines were censored or banned from showing pictures of scantily clad models or publishing content that was deemed offensive or morally corrupt. The only sexual content to be found was in sex education pamphlets or books of nude Chinese women sold as ''art works'' at big city airports.
 Today, however, with China's economy booming and the government loosening its hold on the personal lives of everyday citizens, magazines are beginning to publish soft-core pornographic photographs, sexual fantasies, even clues about where to pick up call girls.
 Popular Chinese Web sites are going further, posting erotic videos and creating forums for women eager to market their sex appeal and post their photographs on the Internet: images of traveling with friends, undressing at home, even striking erotic poses.
 ''This is a kind of grass-roots sexual revolution,'' said Annie Wang, author of ''The People's Republic of Desire,'' a satirical novel about the country's mad race to modernization.
 The government announces periodic crackdowns on pornography and often censors sexual content in magazines and on the Web. But since about 2000, the censors have started to look the other way. Political activism is still a no-no in New China. Entertainment is a different matter. Even the Web site of Xinhua, the state-run news agency, offers slide shows of the ''10 Hottest Babes of 2006'' and ''Rarely Seen Photos of Sexy Men.''
 Many say the trend is being driven by the market, and by entrepreneurs eager to cash in on the country's freer lifestyles.
 ''The market is the No. 1 driving force behind the boom of such magazines,'' said Pan Suiming, a professor of sociology at Renmin University in Beijing.Western luxury brands entering the Chinese market want to advertise in popular magazines and on Web sites that draw consumers. And in China right now, pictures of sex kittens draw.
 For Him Magazine is one of the success stories of this genre, with a circulation of about 480,000. (It probably helps that the magazine is published by a government agency, the National Tourism Administration, an indication of official interest in investing in the phenomenon.) Jacky Jin, the editor in chief, says he wanted to affirm a new kind of lifestyle for readers that he calls China's new metrosexuals, guys who love cars, gadgets and girls.
 ''We're opening a new window for Chinese men,'' he says, noting that he's been criticized by government censors on several occasions.
 A decade ago, the private lives of people in China were still quite restricted. Whom you married, where you lived and what was considered permissible were tightly controlled or closely monitored by the government, employers and parental authorities.
 But urbanization, greater mobility and the power of the World Wide Web have challenged all that.
 Now, experts say, China is going through a period of enormous personal and sexual freedom. Young people -- most of whom grew up without siblings under the country's one-child policy -- are wearing more hip and provocative clothing. And they're growing addicted to entertainment online, where they can also search for love and indulge their lust.
 Professor Pan said he thought one reason for the cultural change was a change in women's attitudes.
 ''Today's women, especially young women in the cities, no longer think it's a bad thing to expose their bodies,'' he said. ''Five or six years ago, when some women started to wear clothes that exposed their midriff, most people couldn't understand why belly buttons should be regarded as beautiful and deserve public exposure. Today, young women think it is natural to bare their midriff.''
 Zha Jianying, a Beijing writer and author of ''China Pop,'' says the growing openness is actually a good thing.
 ''This trend of being more open about sex is definitely healthy, coming after all those years of puritanism and Maoist suppression,'' Ms. Zha says. ''Now, maybe we're seeing the pendulum swing in the other direction.'' 
 But Professor Xie at Fudan University says things have gone too far.
 ''In certain periods in history, such as the decadent Ming Dynasty, sex was not a taboo and even intellectuals would talk about their sex skills casually over tea,'' he said. ''Today's society is still better than that. But I do find that people care less about dignity.''
 He went on to call for limits on how much skin can be shown publicly, and said: ''Human beings should have a sense of shame.'' Other critics say the new freedoms have brought degeneracy, a boom in prostitution, and what Ms. Wang, the author, called ''the concubine mentality.'' Hard-core pornography, of course, is under assault by the government, which can exact heavy fines on trespassers. One pornography kingpin was recently sentenced to life in prison.
 And censors are wary of influences from the West, like ''Sex and the City,'' which has a huge following here, mostly on pirated DVDs. Even ''The Vagina Monologues'' show was canceled here recently, apparently because of the title.
 But in a country that also happens to be the largest manufacturer of sex toys, being naughty is catching on.
 In November a man here in Shanghai was selling condoms in packages bearing the likeness of Chairman Mao.
 His shop was closed, of course, for selling condoms in ''inappropriate packages.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Party Girls -- A photo layout in the Chinese edition of Esquire goes light on ideology, lighter on clothing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); WOMEN (89%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); SEX EDUCATION (74%); CHILDREN (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (63%); TRENDS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); AIRPORTS (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; News and News Media; Sex ; Life Styles; Children and Youth; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (73%) David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (96%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



92 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Neither Clinton, Nor Obama

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
So there I was, sitting in my office, quietly contemplating suicide. I was watching a cattle call of Democratic presidential candidates on C-Span. In their five-minute speeches, they were laying it on thick with poll-tested, consultant-driven cliches of the Our Children Are Our Future variety. The thought of having to spend the next two years listening to this drivel set me wondering if it was literally possible to be bored to death.
 Then Bill Richardson walked onstage. He was dressed differently -- in slacks and a sports jacket. He told jokes that didn't seem repeated for the 5,000th time. He seemed recognizably human, unlike some of his overpolished peers. He gave the best presentation, by far. 
 Then a heretical question entered my head: What if Richardson does this well at forums for the next 10 months? Is it possible to imagine him as a leading candidate for the nomination?
 When you think that way, it becomes absurdly easy to picture him rising toward the top. He is, after all, the most experienced person running for president. He served in Congress for 14 years. He was the energy secretary (energy's kind of vital).
 He's a successful two-term governor who was re-elected with 69 percent of the vote in New Mexico, a red state. Moreover, he's a governor with foreign policy experience. He was U.N. ambassador. He worked in the State Department. He's made a second career of negotiating on special assignments with dictators like Saddam, Castro and Kim Jong Il. He negotiated a truce in Sudan.
 Most of all, he's not a senator. Since 1961, 40 senators have run for president and their record is 0-40. A senator may win this year, but you'd be foolish to assume it.
 When it comes to policy positions, he's perfectly positioned -- not by accident -- to carry liberals and independents. As governor, he's covered the normal Democratic bases: he raised teacher pay, he expanded children's health insurance, he began programs to stall global warming, he built a light rail line.
 But he also cut New Mexico's top income tax rate from 8.2 percent to 4.9 percent. He handed out tax credits to stimulate economic growth. (He's the only Democrat completely invulnerable on the tax cut issue.) He supports free trade, with reservations. And he not only balanced the budget -- he also ran a surplus.
 On cultural issues, Richardson has the distinct advantage of not setting off any culture war vibes. He was in college in the late 1960s, but he was listening to the Beach Boys, not Janis Joplin. He was playing baseball in the Cape Cod League, not going to Woodstock. He idolized Humphrey, not McCarthy. 
 Richardson is actually something of a throwback pol -- a Daley or La Guardia who doesn't treat politics as a moral crusade. That might appeal this year.
 On the nuts and bolts of the campaign, he has some advantages as well. He won't have the $150 million war chests that Clinton and Obama will have. On the other hand, he won't have the gigantic apparatuses that fund-raising on that scale requires. While those campaigns may be bloated, overmanaged and remote, Richardson has the potential to be small and nimble.
 Furthermore, he could generate waves of free media the way John McCain did in 2000. He's a reporters' favorite -- candid, accessible and fun to be around. ''I'm a real person, not canned. I don't have a whole bunch of advisers. I'm a little overweight, though I'm trying to dress better,'' he told me last week. So far, rumors of personal peccadilloes are unfounded.
 Finally, there is the matter of his personal style. This is his biggest drawback. He's baggy-faced, sloppy (we like our leaders well groomed), shamelessly ambitious and inelegant. On the other hand, once a century or so the Democratic Party actually nominates somebody the average person would like to have a beer with. Bill Richardson is that kind of guy.
 He is garrulous, amusing, touchy-feely (to a fault), a little rough-edged and comfortably mass-market. He's Budweiser, not microbrew. It doesn't hurt that he's Hispanic and Western. 
 In short, when you try to think forward to next winter, you see that this campaign will at some point leave the ''American Idol''/''Celebrity Deathmatch'' phase. The Clinton-Obama psychodrama may cease to fascinate while the sheer intensity of coverage will create a topsy-turvy series of revolutions. 
 I wouldn't bet a paycheck on Richardson. But I wouldn't count him out. At the moment, he's the candidate most likely to rise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (84%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUDGETS (76%); SUICIDE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); BASEBALL (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); INCOME TAX (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); KIM JONG IL (50%) David Brooks; Bill Richardson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



93 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Hospital's Bill of Rights

BYLINE: By Brett Harwood. 
Brett Harwood is the chairman of Jersey City Medical Center.

DATELINE: Jersey City 

 BODY:
WHILE urban hospitals everywhere require intensive care these days, in New Jersey, they're on life support. 
 Just take a look at these numbers released by the New Jersey Hospital Association in October. More than 40 percent of the state's hospitals are in the red, more than double the national average. Those that operate in the black average less than 1 percent profit. While national operating margins for hospitals increased from 2000 to 2005, in New Jersey they declined. Since 1985, 20 New Jersey hospitals have been forced to close.
Many of the problems are structural: New Jersey gets back only 55 cents of every federal tax dollar it sends to Washington; Medicaid reimburses at less than actual cost; and President Bush's new budget contains freezes and cutbacks in both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. But these problems are heightened because 15 percent of the state's population is uninsured, 40 percent of expensive emergency room visits statewide are for primary care, and there is a large and growing number of undocumented immigrants here. 
 That's not all. Fifty-eight percent of the people treated at New Jersey hospitals are covered by three government programs: charity care subsidies, Medicare and Medicaid. Medicare, the single largest payer, no longer reimburses the full cost of treatment, producing a gap in inpatient treatment alone of $500 million a year.
 Private insurers, which used to cover some of the financial gap, now collect some of the highest premiums in the country, concentrating market share among a small number of providers that then enjoy the power to negotiate ever more favorable rates with providers. State mandates, including the so-called slacker mandate requiring coverage for unmarried children under the age of 30, add as much as 20 percent to premium costs. Insurance profits are healthy and premiums are high, especially with the built-in need to cover aid program shortfalls with the hidden tax built into insurance cost.
 And the health of hospitals has a big effect on the health of the state as a whole. According to the American Hospital Association, the hospital industry is the fifth-largest in New Jersey, providing 150,000 jobs and $7.7 billion annually in salaries and benefits and contributing $34.4 billion to the state's economy.
 Gov. Jon Corzine's Commission on Rationalizing New Jersey's Health Care Resources, formed late last year, looks promising. Its mandate to ensure that the right services are in the right places is the best approach to distributing health care efficiently throughout the state. 
 Perhaps new federal priorities will produce better reimbursement rates and thus healthier hospitals. Perhaps Washington will take into account the factors that especially disadvantage New Jersey in the current formulas and correct them. But there are many things that the state can do. 
 As the commission members begin to decide which hospitals are to survive and how to distribute scarce state money, they must take into account factors that vary widely among hospitals. For example, here at Jersey City Medical Center, 77 percent of the people we treat in the emergency room are either Medicaid or charity patients. Our colleagues in more affluent areas have a mix of patients, more of whom can pay for their care. 
 Sure, some hospitals have too many beds and some are in such antiquated buildings that keeping them open would merely be throwing money away. But in some parts of the state, hospitals are major economic engines and closing them could be disastrous for communities. Many hospitals also provide important services like ambulances and home health programs that are in short supply. 
 Because I am in the business of running hospitals, I have some specific suggestions for the commission to consider. First, the commission must ensure that every hospital in the state is doing the best it can with what it has. That means strict and continuous audits of everything from fiscal practices to a patient's length of stay and the kind of services offered. Tax money must be spent wisely, and the state needs to have medical and accounting professionals making sure that it is.
 Second, reimbursement must be distributed fairly -- without regard to politics -- to well-run institutions with a patient population that includes large numbers of the old, poor, chronically ill and underserved. Those hospitals cannot be profitable if they lose money on most of the patients they treat. Too many hospitals are getting aid not because they need it but because they have elected representatives who want a share of the pot. That needs to stop.
 Sick people deserve care, no matter where they live or how much money they have. Medical care is a public responsibility. Unless and until there is universal health care in the United States, hospital survival will depend on compassion for those who cannot pay, combined with flinty-eyed attention to where we send the money to take care of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MEDICAID (73%); CHARITIES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); CHILDREN (50%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Hospitals

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Brett Harwood

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



94 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Power And Its Critics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Play It Safe at Indian Point'' (editorial, Feb. 25), you suggest that nuclear power plants are beneficial from a green perspective. When the entirety of the life cycle of a nuclear plant -- inclusive of uranium mining and production, plant construction and the like -- are viewed, when the environmental impact of daily radioactive releases from plants and the environmental effects of thousands of radioactive spent fuel rods are viewed, the green claim evaporates. 
 In fact, renewable energy sources coupled with energy efficiencies -- attainable goals, just witness California and Europe -- are much more cost-effective and attainable in combating global warming than nuclear plants and much less dangerous. Even modest investments in efficiencies and renewables would reduce global warming pollutants by 47 percent by 2025. And each dollar invested in energy efficiency displaces seven times as much carbon dioxide as a dollar invested in nuclear power.Glenn Rickles Croton-on-HudsonThe writer is on the steering committee of the Indian Point Safe Energy Coalition.To the Editor:
 In ''Play It Safe at Indian Point,'' you asked why Entergy wouldn't welcome an independent assessment of the Indian Point nuclear power plant if such a review would satisfy the scrutiny of nuclear critics. But these critics can't be satisfied.
 For example, in June 2006 an assessment on the feasibility of replacing the power produced by Indian Point, the result of a two-year study by the National Academy of Sciences commissioned by Representative Nita M. Lowey, found that closing the plant would not be easily accomplished, nor was it advisable. 
 Yet these critics continue to claim that Indian Point can be closed with no adverse consequences to the energy production or economy of the region.Laurent L. LawrenceNew RochelleThe writer is executive director of the New York Affordable Reliable Electricity Alliance, which is partially financed by Entergy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (95%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (94%); POWER PLANTS (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); URANIUM MINING (57%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Editorials; Accidents and Safety; Indian Point Nuclear Power Plant (NY)

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (91%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: NITA M LOWEY (51%) Glenn Rickles; Laurent L Lawrence

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Buchanan (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



95 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3444 words

HEADLINE: Mission Improbable: Tom Cruise As Mogul

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
ARRAYED in a glass case in the lobby of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's headquarters in Century City are contracts from the creation of the United Artists studio in 1919. The documents bear the signatures of the Tinseltown legends Charlie Chaplin, Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and D. W. Griffith. Also ensconced in the case is one of United Artists' first income statements: sales of $21 million in today's dollars, a fair sum for the early 20th century but barely enough to finance even a single low-budget film now.
 Some things never change. Asked how United Artists' early revenues compare with what it takes in today, Harry E. Sloan, chief executive of the studio's parent company, MGM, replies: ''We don't have any yet. It's all cost.'' 
If Mr. Sloan has his way, however, that will soon change. Last November, he signed the latest set of United Artists contracts with yet another Hollywood heavyweight determined to chart his own financial and creative course: Tom Cruise. Mr. Cruise and his business partner, the veteran film producer Paula Wagner, have signed on to run United Artists with what insiders describe as a relatively free hand for a term of at least five years. In exchange, MGM has granted the pair about a one-third stake in the dormant studio without asking them to invest a penny in it. 
 Ms. Wagner is the chief executive of UA -- as the studio is commonly known -- while Mr. Cruise bears no official title except, perhaps, the world's most famous movie star. Unlike Ms. Wagner, Mr. Cruise does not draw a salary from UA, according to a person with direct knowledge of the arrangement. The idea is that his ownership stake alone will align the interests of Tom Cruise the actor with Tom Cruise the studio grandee.
 ''I can't put a number on it yet,'' says Bert Fields, the Hollywood rainmaker and lawyer who represents Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner. ''I will tell you this: If their pictures succeed, it will be worth a very large amount.'' 
 Still, in a town awash in news releases written in magic ink on fairy parchment, Hollywood does not know exactly what to make of the idea of Cruise-as-mogul -- or, for that matter, how exactly the fast-moving Mr. Sloan plans to deploy UA and the deep pockets of private equity investors to yank MGM back from the brink of obscurity. 
 Moreover, Mr. Cruise stands at the end of a long line of creative potentates in Hollywood, including Burt Lancaster, Paul Newman, Barbra Streisand, Sidney Poitier, Steve McQueen and Steven Spielberg, who have tried to follow the original Chaplin-Fairbanks-Pickford blueprint by overseeing their own mini-studios. All of them experienced mixed results as they ran up against the brutal economics of a hit-and-miss industry in which independents often lack the size needed to overcome the financial vagaries of filmmaking. 
 Though the relationship between studios and stars has grown ever more tangled in modern Hollywood, one thing has stayed the same: what many stars most covet -- along with fame and fortune -- is creative autonomy from their corporate overlords. For actors like Brad Pitt, Reese Witherspoon, Tom Hanks and Leonardo DiCaprio, that has meant deals as independent producers that give them a stronger hand in developing their pet projects and bestow production fees and credits on them.
 Until last year, the gold standard of such deals was an arrangement between Cruise/Wagner Productions and Paramount, the studio where Mr. Cruise, 44, had starred in many of his biggest pictures. But that relationship vaporized in a mushroom cloud last August, after what many critics called Mr. Cruise's erratic behavior during his promotional tour for the spy thriller ''Mission: Impossible III.'' 
 Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman of Viacom, Paramount's owner, contended that he had fired Mr. Cruise for ''inappropriate'' behavior that had hurt his studio's bottom line. Mr. Cruise's defenders accused Mr. Redstone of grandstanding and said that, actually, both sides had already been planning to part amicably.
 Regardless, the media firestorm and scrutiny of Mr. Cruise's career and conduct only intensified when, two months later, Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner landed at United Artists, which through different owners has hewed in varying degrees to its founding ideals of artistic hegemony.
 The producer Jerry Bruckheimer, who worked with Mr. Cruise early in his career on the film ''Top Gun,'' said that the news of the move ''kind of shocked Hollywood.''
 Mr. Bruckheimer added: ''You have a star and his producing partner actually running a studio. That hasn't happened in I don't know how many years.''
 BEFORE it became part of MGM in 1981, United Artists spawned the ''James Bond,'' ''Pink Panther'' and ''Rocky'' franchises and, during one prolific run in the 1970s, won three consecutive best-picture Oscars for ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' ''Rocky'' and ''Annie Hall.'' 
 A promotional reel that Mr. Sloan shows investors in MGM's penthouse screening room makes plain that many of the best-known titles in the current MGM film library -- from ''The Apartment'' to ''West Side Story'' -- were United Artists releases.
 The lore is not lost on Mr. Cruise. At a recent party, Peter Bart, the editor in chief of Variety, greeted Mr. Cruise and mentioned that for a two-year period in the 1980s he, too, had been a senior executive at United Artists. ''I know,'' Mr. Cruise replied instantly, and proceeded to list all the movies made under Mr. Bart's tenure, Mr. Bart recalled in an interview.
 Discussing their fledgling plans to revive one of the more storied names in filmdom -- and considering the maelstrom in which the whole idea was hatched -- United Artists' new chieftains acknowledge in interviews that they have stitched together their business plan on the fly because, they say, they are in a hurry and have a lot to prove.
 As a result, UA in its new incarnation is a basket of contradictions and question marks: it's a filmmaking enterprise ultimately owned by a studio, MGM, that had only recently vowed to get out of that line of work to focus on the less risky and more predictable -- albeit far less sexy -- business of marketing and distribution. Moreover, it's a small studio co-managed by one of the world's ultimate ''big movie'' movie stars.
 ''UA is in the shadows here,'' Ms. Wagner insists. At the new studio, she adds, ''It's the film that's the star.''
 Everyone involved cautions that it is still early and that the studio's course is not fully set; its first production, a political thriller called ''Lambs for Lions,'' directed by Robert Redford and starring Mr. Redford, Mr. Cruise and Meryl Streep, is being shot now and is scheduled for a November release. If all goes as planned, United Artists will announce as soon as this week a debt financing of $400 million to $500 million to finance its first slate of pictures, backing that includes $100 million from MGM itself. 
 Beyond saying that the plan is to live up to the United Artists legacy of making talent feel like partners rather than employees, and a goal of releasing four to six films a year distributed by MGM, Ms. Wagner says that little else is set in stone. 
 ''There are no absolutes,'' she says over brunch at the Polo Lounge in the Beverly Hills Hotel. ''Under no circumstances am I making any proclamations or declarations -- we're new; we're 100 days here.''
 Ms. Wagner carries herself with the poise of someone who once worked as a theater actress and a talent agent before becoming Mr. Cruise's collaborator and the public face of his entrepreneurial and filmmaking ambitions. Mr. Cruise declined to be interviewed for this article, because, Ms. Wagner says, he prefers that she speak publicly about their mutual business interests.
 As far as those first 100 days go, Ms. Wagner says their new company is on track: it is hiring new employees, has ''Lambs for Lions'' under way, has just optioned a hot book, ''The Birthday Party'' by Stanley N. Alpert, and is taking meetings and pitches all over town. The plan is to make films of varying budgets and genres. But anything that is projected to cost more than about $60 million needs a green light from MGM. 
 Mr. Cruise is not obligated to appear in any UA films, though the incentive of owning a large chunk of the print, as well as the bragging rights and perquisites that entails, is meant to be a strong motivator for him to ply his ''day job -- or night job,'' as Ms. Wagner puts it, at UA. 
 In the case of ''Lions for Lambs,'' MGM is providing the film's $35 million budget. Mr. Cruise, Mr. Redford and Ms. Streep have all deferred their usual upfront fees or percentages of gross revenue in exchange for cumulatively splitting half of the film's profit with UA.
 Ms. Wagner would not discuss the numbers, joking that she ''never discusses her budgets or her age.'' But she said that the structure was typical of how she envisions UA: as a trusted partner rather than as a big studio with arcane accounting that prompts agents to insist that their most bankable clients are paid up front. 
 Of course, Ms. Wagner is now something of an expert in the perks and pitfalls of life at a big studio. All she needs to do is flash back to last fall, to the Cruise/Wagner Productions offices on the Paramount lot. Cruise/Wagner was initially fueled by the adrenalin of Mr. Cruise's star power in the early 1990s, when he anchored hits like ''A Few Good Men,'' ''The Firm'' and ''Days of Thunder.'' 
 Over nearly 15 years, Cruise/Wagner produced 13 films, aided in the latter years by a plush overhead deal from Paramount in which Paramount provided office space and underwrote their projects in exchange for a first crack at bringing them to the screen. The result of that collaboration was films approaching a gross of $3 billion at the box office, with Cruise/Wagner having particular success in shepherding the lucrative ''Mission: Impossible'' franchise to the big screen for Paramount.
 But last year Viacom was in transition, and the studio's new overseers, the Paramount chief executive, Brad Grey and the Viacom chief, Tom Freston -- like other Hollywood chieftains -- believed that they were spending too much money on too many co-producers. Where Cruise/Wagner was concerned, they reasoned that the studio could just as easily work out a deal with Mr. Cruise to shoot another ''Mission: Impossible'' installment by hiring him and Ms. Wagner as producers, without subsidizing their company. 
 What's more, Cruise/Wagner's track record was strong with films starring Mr. Cruise, but those that did not feature the actor -- pictures like ''The Others,'' ''Elizabethtown,'' ''Shattered Glass'' and ''Narc'' -- had ''mixed'' commercial success, according to an executive with knowledge of the discussions.
 ''Any producer who makes more than one or two films in their lifetime -- with the exception perhaps of Tom Cruise -- has a 'mixed' thing,'' Ms. Wagner says when asked if that was a fair assessment of her partnership with Mr. Cruise. Viacom declined to comment.
 As the mood in Hollywood changed and Paramount offered a greatly reduced production deal, Ms. Wagner says that she and Mr. Cruise decided that it was time for a change. Following the lead of other successful producers like Ivan Reitman and Joel Silver, they wanted to tap into the new Wall Street and hedge fund money flowing into Hollywood.
 Under these new business arrangements, big-name producers can control nearly every aspect of filmmaking -- even the most exalted perk, the ability to greenlight a picture. Big studios remain crucial to a film's success under this new model, but largely as marketers and distributors.
 ONE Wednesday morning last August, Mr. Redstone, in an interview that appeared on the front page of The Wall Street Journal, announced that he had fired Mr. Cruise. 
 Mr. Cruise's antics, Mr. Redstone contended, had cost him money.
 Indeed, while ''Mission: Impossible III'' grossed close to $134 million at the box office domestically, it fell $81 million shy of the previous installment. And the roughly $70 million that Mr. Cruise took home as his share of the film's worldwide receipts meant that he probably earned more than Paramount did on the picture, said an executive with direct knowledge of the film's financial results. Ms. Wagner and Viacom would not confirm that calculation.
 Mr. Redstone's comments came in the wake of Mr. Cruise's statements about his faith in Scientology, his public declarations of love for his girlfriend -- and now wife -- Katie Holmes, and his crusade against prescription antidepressants. Ms. Wagner bristles when she recalls the episode. ''Tom Cruise, in 10 months, for Paramount Pictures, generated just under $1 billion,'' she says, referring to the box office take of his last two films, ''Mission: Impossible III'' and ''War of the Worlds.'' 
 Mr. Cruise's so-called firing was extraordinary in Hollywood -- and nothing personal, Mr. Redstone has said in subsequent interviews. Mr. Cruise's camp says that his contract had merely expired and that he was already planning to move on. That issue aside, the incident raised a salient question in filmdom: had the pay for talent grown out of kilter with the financial realities of the marketplace? 
 In the uncertain days that followed, Cruise/Wagner announced a deal to develop films for a company backed by Daniel Snyder, the investor who owns the Washington Redskins, but it was hardly the big move that showed the world that they were unfazed. Friends of Mr. Cruise, meanwhile, advised him to focus less on his production business and more on picking smart follow-ups to ''Mission: Impossible III'' so he could put the bad publicity behind him.
 FOR Harry Sloan, meanwhile, the raging headlines about Mr. Cruise gave him a flash of inspiration. After taking charge of MGM in 2005 at the behest of its main investors, Providence Equity Partners and Thomas H. Lee Partners, Mr. Sloan set out to revive the company, which also counts Sony and Comcast as investors. The private equity firms had initially backed the Sony Corporation's $5 billion takeover of MGM from the investor Kirk Kerkorian in 2004, with the strategy that MGM would be largely shuttered and its 4,000-film library fed through the distribution pipeline of Sony Pictures. 
 But the investors, unhappy with MGM's performance under the Sony strategy, changed course after a year and installed Mr. Sloan, an MGM director, as the studio's chief executive. Mr. Sloan, an entertainment lawyer turned entrepreneur, founded SBS Broadcasting in Europe in the early 1990s and sold it three years ago for $2.6 billion. The venture made him a tidy fortune, an undisclosed portion of which he has reinvested in MGM. 
 In addition to moving the distribution of MGM's home video business to 20th Century Fox, Mr. Sloan wanted to shore up MGM's own television channels around the world by cutting deals with various small and independent producers. Mr. Sloan, who once served as chairman of Lion's Gate Entertainment, also wanted to revive MGM's movie-making capabilities, but without the expense of layers of creative executives and producers. 
 In an interview, Mr. Sloan estimated that big studios spent as much as $100 million apiece annually on films that are never released, and he called Hollywood's film development deals ''an enormous welfare project'' for writers, agents and producers. 
 Mr. Sloan considered selling the UA brand name because it was doing nothing more for MGM than gathering dust in a closet. But when he saw Mr. Cruise's broad smile flashed across the evening news during the Paramount dust-up, he decided to give him and Ms. Wagner the UA shingle to hang. 
 ''You can't lose,'' Mr. Sloan says of the deal with Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner. ''There are plenty of things I'm doing that have plenty of risk and downside. This is not one of them.'' 
 So while the news media buzzed with speculation about whether Mr. Cruise's career would be dented or even destroyed, Harry Sloan placed calls to Mr. Fields, the lawyer. He also phoned Mr. Cruise's longtime representatives at Creative Artists Agency, whose co-chairman, Rick Nicita, is Ms. Wagner's husband. (Ms. Wagner herself had been Mr. Cruise's agent at the firm before becoming his production partner.) 
 Knowing that Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner would need to exit the Paramount lot in a hurry, Mr. Sloan offered them office space on the 11th floor of the MGM tower. Over the next two months, the three conducted a series of private meetings at Mr. Sloan's office and home that involved contingents of lawyers and agents.
 What emerged was what Ms. Wagner describes as a hybrid between a studio and a production company. Rather than the overhead deal they had at Paramount, Mr. Sloan proposed establishing an autonomous studio within a larger studio -- a structure akin to the relationship that Mr. Spielberg's studio, DreamWorks, now has with Paramount, but with real ownership attached.
 ''We all answer to somebody about something,'' Ms. Wagner says. ''It's really the number of people you answer to. In this structure, Tom and I really answer to ourselves.''
 According to people involved in the talks, the question of whether Mr. Cruise, whom Mr. Sloan did not know previously, was past his prime or a loose cannon came up, particularly among MGM's private equity investors.
 But Mr. Sloan concluded that Mr. Cruise was still a bankable star and filmmaker. Kelvin L. Davis, a partner at Texas Pacific who serves on MGM's executive committee, said he came away from his initial meeting with Mr. Cruise impressed by his business acumen and his curiosity about the financial goals of his prospective backers.
 ''One of the things Tom said to me that impressed me early on,'' Mr. Davis said, ''was that he thought his artistic performance, his acting abilities, were best displayed when he felt a real sense of partnership with those who he was doing business with.'' 
 After weeks of preliminary negotiations, Mr. Cruise met with Mr. Sloan in his office for the first time last October. During a meeting that lasted four hours, Mr. Cruise did not jump off the bronze sofa he was sitting on. Rather, he listened intently as Mr. Sloan proposed giving UA some of MGM's franchise films to produce and suggested that its first project be the next ''Terminator.''
 Mr. Sloan recalls that Mr. Cruise responded, ''Let's not do something derivative'' for a first film. ''Let's do something original.'' 
 Since then, a partnership has been struck and Mr. Sloan has been to Mr. Cruise's gala wedding in Italy. Mr. Sloan says he is convinced that Mr. Cruise has both the movie-making ability and the work ethic to make a success of UA. ''He is driven, professional and a total perfectionist,'' Mr. Sloan says. ''I thought he was me in a lot of ways.''
 Mr. Sloan calls his venture with Mr. Cruise an ''interesting experiment'' that he might extend to other dormant MGM brands like Orion Pictures. He also says that other artists could unite with Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner as equity owners of UA. 
 ONE of the lingering questions about UA is how well Ms. Wagner will fare in putting out four to six films a year, when she and Mr. Cruise previously averaged just one movie a year as producers aligned with Paramount. It is also unclear how Mr. Cruise will manage his loyalties and time among the many professional roles he juggles both inside and outside of UA. Last month, for instance, the Hollywood trades reported that he plans to make a comedy with Ben Stiller as the co-star at 20th Century Fox. 
 Mr. Cruise isn't saying. But the answer to questions about his commitment may lie in another meeting he and Ms. Wagner held in Mr. Sloan's office just a few days before the deal was announced last November. 
 The centerpiece of the meeting was a four-hour pow-wow with Jonathan M. Nelson, the chief executive of Providence Equity, whose 29 percent stake in MGM makes it the studio's single largest shareholder. According to two people who would not agree to be named because it was a private meeting, Mr. Nelson was there to scope out Mr. Cruise's intentions for UA before signing off on the deal.
 At the meeting, Mr. Nelson declined an invitation to read the script for ''Lions for Lambs,'' these people said. But he was reassured by other things he saw. Like Mr. Sloan, Mr. Nelson was impressed by Mr. Cruise's sense of purpose and the fact that the star had never responded publicly to Mr. Redstone's lambasting. Instead, it became clear that Mr. Cruise had chosen a different way to fire back at the Viacom chairman: he was determined to let his results be his revenge.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about United Artists misidentified one of the investors in its parent company, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It is the Texas Pacific Group, not Thomas H. Lee Partners. The article also referred incorrectly to the title of UA's first film under its new managers in two references. It will be ''Lions for Lambs,'' not ''Lambs for Lions.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Cruise and his business partner, Paula Wagner, now run United Artists. (Photo by Lester Cohen/WireImage.com)(pg. 1)
From left, the Hollywood legends D.W. Griffith, Mary Pickford, Charlie Chaplin (seated) and Douglas Fairbanks Sr. signing the original contract, below, that created the United Artists studio in 1919. (Photo by United Artists)
As Sumner Redstone, left, had his public dust-up with Tom Cruise, the chief of MGM, Harry Sloan, right, made new plans for United Artists. (Photo by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer via The Associated Press)
(Photo by Danny Moloshok/Associated Press)(pg. 8)
Tom Cruise's last two films for Paramount Pictures, ''Mission: Impossible III,'' top, and ''War of the Worlds.'' (Photo by Stephen Vaughan/Paramount Pictures)
 (Photo by Andrew Cooper/Paramount Pictures)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%) Motion Pictures; Company and Organization Profiles; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc; United Artists

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (96%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (91%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%); SUMNER REDSTONE (50%) Tom Cruise; Paula Wagner; Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



96 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Plan Allots Little New Aid to Abbott Districts

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine's school aid plan unveiled last week gives only minimal increases to the 31 poor urban school districts that the state usually provides with extra money, but it sends a windfall to many of their neighbors. 
 The plan is an about-face from the last five years, when only the 31 urban districts -- called Abbott districts in reference to a 1997 court decision -- received new money. All the others, rich or not, did not receive increases.
The governor's proposal for the fiscal year beginning July 1 gives double-digit increases to some less wealthy districts, many of them Abbott neighbors, and promises everyone -- even wealthy districts like Ridgewood, Millburn and Montgomery -- at least 3 percent. The total proposed increase comes to $194 million for non-Abbott districts. The budget is subject to approval by the Legislature.
 The 31 Abbott districts have received $35 billion in state aid since the State Supreme Court ruled in Abbott v. Burke that they should be given the resources to spend as much on students as the state's wealthiest districts do.
 Mr. Corzine's plan was hailed by less wealthy non-Abbott districts as a boon to their educational programs, while wealthier districts complained that they did not get enough.
 ''There are 39 districts in Bergen County getting only 3 percent, and that's a sizable shortfall from what is needed,'' said Richard Snyder, executive director of Dollars and Sense, which represents Ridgewood and two other districts in Bergen County that have few poor students. ''It's really a deficit, because it doesn't even keep up with inflation for the last five years.''
 Although an overhaul of school aid is still being written, Mr. Corzine devised some new formulas for 2007-8 that reward districts like Red Bank, Atlantic City and Guttenberg that have high proportions of poor students but were not Abbott districts. 
 In all, 49 of the state's 595 operating districts will get increases of 10 percent or more in aid, and 228 others will get from 3 to 10 percent. Most of that comes from a formula that apportions either $250 or $500 in state money for every student who qualifies for free or reduced-price lunch under the programs' federal income guidelines. 
 But the biggest winners also included districts that have started full-day kindergarten programs, which Mr. Corzine has proposed that the state help finance. 
 ''We're examining getting some new social studies and science textbooks,'' said Mark Hayes, superintendent in Palisades Park, which would get an extra $230,000, a 13.6 percent increase, mainly because it has been operating a full-day kindergarten. ''With the cushion this brings, we may also paint a couple of wings in the school, and our ball fields need a lot of attention.''
 Though it was not included in the governor's plan, the Abbott districts will also get the 3 percent minimum, but each will have to make a case for extra money in the next few months.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Redistributing School Funds''Gov. Jon S. Corzine's new school aid plan rewards districts that have high proportions of poor students and that haven't received an increase in state assistance for five years. Many are near the state's Abbott districts -- the poor urban districts that have received billions in state money under court order over the last decade.Map tracks Percent change in state aid to each school district from 2006-07 to 2007-08.(Source by New Jersey State Department of Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); GOVERNORS (59%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



97 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: The Forecast for the Forecasters Is Dismal

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
LAST week, Alan Greenspan proved that a retired maestro can still seem to conduct the world's financial orchestra, even if he no longer occupies the podium. 
 On Monday, Mr. Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said that ''it is possible we can get a recession in the latter months of 2007.'' His musings, to a group of executives in Hong Kong, were followed over the next 48 hours by a break in the frothy Chinese market and poor numbers on United States home sales and durable-goods orders. Together, the events contributed to a swift downdraft in the United States stock market, and led to renewed concerns about the health of the long-running economic expansion.
By Thursday, Mr. Greenspan was backtracking. Noting that while a recession in 2007 is possible, he elaborated: ''I don't think it's probable.'' But his comments -- and the global reaction -- raise a larger question: If a recession were imminent, would Mr. Greenspan, or any less august economist, be able to forecast it? 
 The answer, based on recent experience, is a resounding no. ''I don't think we, as a profession, ever had an ability to forecast recessions,'' said Jeffrey A. Frankel, professor of economics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business Cycle Dating Committee, the official arbiter of recessions. ''It's hard enough to know when a recession has started, looking at it with hindsight.''
 Indeed. No disrespect to Mr. Greenspan, but neither he nor the similarly numerate members of his professional fraternity have a particularly good record of forecasting recessions. As Yoram K. Bauman, an economist who teaches at the University of Washington and performs stand-up comedy, summed up an often-used line: ''Macroeconomists have successfully predicted nine of the last five recessions.'' 
 The Economist reported that in March 2001 -- the month the last recession began -- 95 percent of American economists believed that there wouldn't be a recession. In February 2001, the 35 professional forecasters surveyed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia collectively predicted growth at an annual rate of 2.2 percent for the second quarter of 2001 and 3.3 percent for the third quarter. It's as if meteorologists stood outside as the storm clouds approached and informed television viewers that endless sunshine was ahead. 
 Economists offer several explanations as to why their fellow dismal scientists collectively make such lousy forecasters. Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at the Stern School of Business at New York University, believes that there are institutional reasons. Many forecasters surveyed by the Philadelphia Fed work for Wall Street investment banks or asset management companies, which tend to argue that it is always a good time to invest. There are powerful incentives and pressures not to be unduly bearish about the economy. ''When your firm is bullish on everything else, and is peddling all kinds of stocks and bonds, nobody will be foolish enough to go the other way,'' he said. Of course, Mr. Roubini is perfectly willing to go the other way. Last summer, he boldly predicted a recession for the first half of 2007.
 Lakshman Achuthan, managing director at the Economic Cycle Research Institute, which accurately predicted the 2001 recession, says that most economists are simply using the wrong tools. ''Generally speaking, professional forecasters tend to extrapolate from existing trends, albeit in a very sophisticated way,'' he said.
 Doing so, however, inevitably causes them to miss out on inflection points -- at the beginning or the end of recessions, he said. Mr. Achuthan thinks that the institute's methodology, which focuses on a series of leading indicators and avoids specific numerical forecasts about economic growth, allows it to gauge turning points more accurately.
 The complexity, dynamism and diversity of the United States economy also make forecasting recessions difficult. In small countries, which may depend on a single export, like oil, or where a natural disaster can wreak catastrophic results for the entire economy, it is comparatively easy to determine when and how one of these factors can cause a contraction, Mr. Frankel of Harvard said. But in the United States, whose overall economy has responded so well in recent years to a series of external shocks -- from 9/11 to Hurricane Katrina -- it's rarely sufficient to focus on a single factor. 
 Christina Romer, professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, says economists can't predict recessions for the same reason stock market analysts can't accurately predict market crashes. ''Both kinds of events, by their nature, are not predictable events,'' she said. Almost all the postwar recessions were preceded by a shock, like a spike in short-term interest rates, or a sharp rise in oil prices. ''It's impossible to see the shocks coming,'' Ms. Romer said.
 The very infrequency of recessions in the United States may make it more challenging to detect their imminent arrival. An entire generation of economists has grown up believing that the business cycle is largely something of the past, like black-and-white TV. Since March 1991, there has been only one recession, which lasted eight months. It's like asking people who spend their time in Alaska to start forecasting tropical storms. 
 AS a group, forecasters certainly don't see a recession coming. On Feb. 13, those of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia collectively raised their estimates for real gross domestic product growth for 2007 to 2.8 percent, from 2.6 percent.
 But just because they've been wrong in the past doesn't mean forecasters are wrong now. ''There is no reason at the moment why the steady momentum of the economy, with gains in employment feeding back into consumption growth, should falter,'' said Robert J. Gordon, professor of economics at Northwestern University and a member of Business Cycle Dating Committee at the National Bureau of Economic Research. 
 To one of the few people who accurately predicted the 2001 recession, the glass seems half full rather than half empty. ''We actually see a diminishing risk for recession in 2007,'' Mr. Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute said. ''Our leading indexes for the vast service sector have turned up in 2007. This economy is much bigger than the housing or the manufacturing sector.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Economists, including Alan Greenspan, don't have a particularly good record of forecasting recessions. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); METEOROLOGY (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007



98 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Blog the Debt Away

 BODY:
Public humiliation in the stocks long ago fell out of fashion. A virtual version is making a comeback. This time it's a self-imposed punishment for debtors trying to abase their way back into the black. 
 As John Leland reported recently in The Times, people have started their own debt blogs to share the most intimate details of their faltering finances, hoping their online confessions will help them develop some self-restraint.
Every time the bloggers reach for a credit card, the realization that they will have to confess any splurges is supposed to give them pause. The 29-year-old woman who writes bloggingawaydebt.com -- identified only as Tricia -- keeps a running tally of her obligations in the upper-right-hand corner of the Web page (just over $22,000 right now, down from almost $38,000). Right below that is the button that allows readers to sign up to receive updates: 349 regulars are keeping a watchful eye. 
 They were fairly understanding when she and her husband went roughly $100 over budget on Christmas presents for their son, though one comment suggested they ''start the new year with redoubled determination.'' Hard to be too tough on them since they've already wiped out over $15,000 in debt.
 Consumers are asking others to help them develop self-control because so many companies are not showing any restraint. The Federal Reserve estimates that credit card companies sent out more than six billion direct-mail solicitations in 2005. Last year the average American household was $21,000 in debt, about a third of that on credit cards.
 In response to the explosion in consumer debt, Congress passed a law in 2005 making it more difficult for individuals to declare bankruptcy. But legislators did nothing to curb the blizzard of pre-approved cards that fall through the mail slots. Often the most profitable customers are the least responsible ones. At a Senate Banking Committee hearing in January, Chairman Christopher Dodd cited a study estimating that credit-card penalty fees had risen to $17.1 billion in 2006 from $1.7 billion in 1996.
 Credit can be a good thing, both for simplifying transactions and helping people get over a temporary crunch. But Congress needs to do more to make rates and fees more transparent while putting an end to some of the most abusive policies. In a fairly common practice known as universal default, for instance, a credit card company raises interest rates because a consumer missed or was late with a payment on a different company's account. Citigroup just announced that its credit-card business would voluntarily end the practice. That's something good to blog about for a change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (70%); CHRISTMAS (66%); LEGISLATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Credit and Money Cards; Editorials; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



99 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: We Eat Horses, Don't We?

BYLINE: By Christa Weil. 
Christa Weil is the author of ''Fierce Food: The Intrepid Diner's Guide to the Unusual, Exotic and Downright Bizarre.''

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
RECENTLY, an official for American Horse Defense Fund, which is a fervent supporter of bills now in the United States Congress that would ban slaughtering horses for meat, declared that ''the foreign-owned slaughter industry needs to understand that Americans will never view horses as dinner.''
 It's a ringing statement, but it's not an entirely accurate one. As much public support as the anti-slaughter bills have and as highly as we regard this animal as a companion, co-worker and patriotic symbol, Americans have made periodic forays into horse country, hungry for an alternative red meat. 
During World War II and the postwar years, when beef and pork were scarce or priced beyond most consumers' means, horsemeat appeared in the butcher's cold case. In 1951, Time magazine reported from Portland, Ore.: ''Horsemeat, hitherto eaten as a stunt or only as a last resort, was becoming an important item on Portland tables. Now there were three times as many horse butchers, selling three times as much meat.'' Noting that ''people who used to pretend it was for the dog now came right out and said it was going on the table,'' the article provided tips for cooking pot roast of horse and equine fillets.
 A similar situation unfolded in 1973, when inflation sent the cost of traditional meats soaring. Time reported that ''Carlson's, a butcher shop in Westbrook, Conn., that recently converted to horsemeat exclusively, now sells about 6,000 pounds of the stuff a day.'' The shop was evangelical in its promotion of horse as a main course, producing a 28-page guide called ''Carlson's Horsemeat Cook Book,'' with recipes for chili con carne, German meatballs, beery horsemeat and more. While no longer in print, the book is catalogued on Amazon. 
 This is a dizzying decline from the horse's heyday as a food in Paleolithic times, when it was one of the chief prey of the cave-dwellers of France, who painted gripping scenes of its pursuit. Horse has been boiled, barbecued and cured in regions of Europe and Asia ever since. Mongol nomads relied on the blood of their steeds as they swept westward. Marco Polo tells how they traveled ''without provisions and without making a fire, living only on the blood of their horses; for every rider pierces a vein of his horse and drinks the blood.'' 
 The early church did not look happily on pagan practices in England and Iceland, where horse was consumed as part of religious ritual. In the eighth century, Pope Gregory II instructed the missionary Boniface to ''tell them not to eat horses and impose severe punishments to who does it, because they are mean and evil.'' The Christian prohibition against eating horse flesh (joining those already adopted by Jews and Muslims) held strong in Europe for centuries. It remains an underpinning to the British and American aversion to this day. 
 France's later adoption of horse as a plat du jour stemmed not from callous gourmandise, but from pragmatism. Trying to strengthen its work force to meet the demands of the Industrial Revolution, the French government decreed in 1853 that each person consume 3.5 ounces of meat per day. At that time the price of a pound of horse was half that of beef. The shortages of the Franco-Prussian war (which eventually drove starving Parisians to consume rats and the residents of the zoo) sealed horse's stature as a cheap, nutritious ''food of the people.'' Today horse remains largely a food of the working class, but since its cost is now comparable to beef, the once-flourishing horse butcheries of Paris are becoming an endangered species. 
 Hunger and the desire to nourish one's children are by far the most effective tramplers of food taboos, and they have been the main forces behind America's sporadic appreciation of horse as a culinary item. But clannish customs also hold sway. Such practices recently influenced an isolated pocket of our nation as surely as they did Odin-worshippers who ate burnt equine offerings in the god's name.
 Until the late 1970s, the Harvard Faculty Club served horse steaks as a regular menu item. The dish was abandoned only when the rerouting of Harvard Square traffic meant the delivery truck could no longer get through. A 1998 Harvard Crimson article on the history of the club states that ''professors still recall the dish fondly.'' As they would -- its very oddity, even repulsiveness to the outside world reinforced their sense of being members of a unique and special tribe.
 It can be said, awkwardly, that horses are America's sacred cows. But our reverence stems not just from their noble equine attributes. Our ability to commune wordlessly, with a shift in the saddle, the flick of a rein, a whistle, forges a transcendent relationship. I have eaten all manner of improbable items, from antelope to waterbug, but the fact that horses so graciously did my bidding several decades ago means I won't knowingly eat their kind (or dog, or dolphin) unless hard times make it a necessity. 
 It's easy to denounce the inhumane transport and slaughter of horses, even before taking into account the significant environmental cost of transporting 100,000 carcasses and animals a year thousands of miles to overseas markets. 
 But the fate of less charismatic food animals is also a brutal business. Last year, 150 pigs being shipped from Ohio to a Texas slaughterhouse died after spending up to 72 hours in a truck with no water, food or relief from 95 degree heat. The dispatch of male chicks on an egg farm can be flat-out horrific. The ill treatment of slaughter-bound horses is bad, but it would be worse still if it made us pay less attention to the undue suffering of other food animals.
 There are solid reasons to object to horse slaughter. But to imply that it is somehow un-American doesn't go the distance. Americans have eaten it, even enjoyed it, though never so much to keep it coming in times of plenty, except at Harvard. Horsemeat has been a traditional hardship food. Those seeking to ban it in Congress would serve best by ensuring that we never miss it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE MEAT (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); HORSES (90%); MEATS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); RELIGION (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); MEAT STORES (72%); PORK (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%) Horses; Law and Legislation; Meat; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Horses

PERSON: Christa Weil

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); ICELAND (78%); GERMANY (78%); ENGLAND (66%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



100 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Education, Education, Education

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It's an article of faith that the key to success in real estate is location, location, location.
 For young black boys looking ahead to a difficult walk in life, the mantra should be education, education, education.
We've watched for decades -- watched in horror, actually -- as the lives of so many young blacks, men and boys especially, have been consumed by drugs, crime, poverty, ignorance, racial prejudice, misguided social pressures, and so on.
 At the same time, millions of blacks have thrived, building strong families and successful careers at rates previously unseen. By far, the most important difference between these two very large groups has been educational attainment. 
 If anything, the role that education plays in the life prospects of black Americans is even more dramatic than in the population as a whole. It's the closest thing to a magic potion for black people that I can think of. For boys and men, it is very often the antidote to prison or an early grave.
 A new report from the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston tells us that young adults in general have been struggling in the labor market. Many have been left behind by the modest economic recovery of the past few years, especially those with limited education credentials.
 The report, which focuses on black males, emphasizes the importance of education in overcoming this tough employment environment:
 ''For males in each of the three race-ethnic groups (blacks, Hispanics and whites), employment rates in 2005 increased steadily and strongly with their educational attainment. This was especially true for black males, for whom employment rates rose from a low of 33 percent among high school dropouts to 57 percent among high school graduates, and to a high of 86 percent among four-year college graduates.
 ''The fact that only one of every three young black male high school dropouts was able to obtain any type of job during an average month in 2005 should be viewed as particularly distressing, since many of these young men will end up being involved in criminal activities during their late teens and early 20s and then bear the severe economic consequences for convictions and incarcerations over the remainder of their working lives.''
 There is no way, in my opinion, for blacks to focus too much or too obsessively on education. It's the fuel that powers not just the race for success but the quest for a happy life. It represents the flip side of failure.
 The differences in rates of employment between white men and black men narrow considerably as black men gain additional schooling. After comparing the percentage of the male population that is employed in each race or ethnic group, the Northeastern study found:
 ''The gap in [employment to population] ratios between young white and black males narrows from 20 percentage points among high school dropouts, to 16 percentage points among high school graduates, to eight percentage points among those men completing 1-3 years of college, and to only two percentage points for four-year college graduates.''
 For anyone deluded enough to question whether education is the ticket to a better life for black boys and men, consider that a black male who drops out of high school is 60 times more likely to find himself in prison than one with a bachelor's degree.
 Black males who graduate from a four-year college will make, over the course of a lifetime, more than twice the mean earnings of a black high school graduate, which is a difference of more than a million dollars.
 According to the study, ''Black males with college degrees and strong literacy/math skills also are far more likely to marry and live with their children and pay substantially more in taxes to state and national government than they receive in cash and in-kind benefits.''
 This is not a close-call issue. It is becoming very hard for anyone to succeed in this society without a college education. To leave school without even a high school education, as so many males -- and especially black males -- are doing, is extremely self-destructive.
 The effort to bolster the educational background of black men has to begin very early. It's extremely difficult to turn a high school dropout into a college graduate. This effort can only succeed on a large scale if there is a cultural change in the black community -- a powerful change that acknowledges as the 21st century unfolds that there is no more important life tool for black children than education, education, education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ETHNICITY (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Men; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



101 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Time Change A 'Mini-Y2K' In Tech Terms

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Two years ago, when Congress passed a law to extend daylight saving time by a month, the move seemed a harmless step that would let the nation burn a little less fossil fuel and enjoy a bit more sunshine.
 Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican, predicted that children would rejoice at the prospect of an extra hour of daylight trick-or-treating on Halloween. But there is no rejoicing among corporate technology managers.
The change takes effect Sunday, as daylight saving time begins three weeks earlier (and ends a week later, on the first Sunday in November). And many companies are scrambling to reset BlackBerry e-mail devices, desktop PCs and big data-center computers used to automate payrolls, purchasing and manufacturing. 
 This puts the United States out of sync with the rest of the world for longer than usual this spring, almost certainly disrupting not only computers but also the business and travel schedules of companies, workers and travelers. Most of Europe goes to daylight saving time March 25, two weeks after America, while most of Asia, Africa and South America do not observe daylight saving time at all.
 Any device that has an internal clock looms as a potential problem and must be tweaked for the time change, usually with a software patch. Most internal clocks in computing devices are programmed for the old daylight-time calendar, which Congress set in 1986. 
 ''It's a massive amount of work to get everything in order,'' said Kim Stevenson, a vice president at Electronic Data Systems, a large technology services company. ''And the do-nothing plan is a high-risk plan.''
 The daylight-time shift, according to technology executives and analysts, amounts to a ''mini-Y2K.'' That is a reference to the rush in the late 1990s to change old software, which was unable to recognize dates in the new millennium, 2000 and beyond. 
 The fear was that computers would go haywire, and there were warnings of planes falling from the skies and electronic commerce grinding to a halt. Billions of dollars were invested to fix the so-called millennium bug, and there was no wave of computer-related disasters.
 This time, with extended daylight saving time, the problem is subtler. The potential pitfall is a disruption of business, if the clocks inside all kinds of hardware and software systems do not sync up as they are programmed to do. In a business world that is increasingly computerized and networked, there could be effects on everything from programmed stock trading to just-in-time manufacturing to meeting schedules.
 National hotel chains, one technology consultant said, have often automated their wake-up call services in one or two data centers. Having wake-up calls made an hour late for a couple of weeks, he noted, would certainly tarnish a hotel's reputation for customer service.
 For consumers, the greatest potential impact will be on e-mail and calendar programs like Microsoft Outlook, used to schedule dentist visits, soccer practices, evening entertainment and other appointments. 
 The latest Windows operating system, Vista, is not affected, and for those running Windows XP Service Pack 2, online software updates have been pushed out automatically to correct the problem. Microsoft and Apple are also making software patches and instructions available on their Web sites. 
 ''This is mainly an annoyance for consumers, but it's a major headache for corporate technology departments,'' said Jeffrey Hammond, an analyst at Forrester Research.
 For the roughly 7,000 public companies in the United States, Mr. Hammond estimates the total cost of making computer fixes to deal with the daylight saving time shift at more than $350 million. ''It's causing a lot of corporate technology people sleepless nights,'' he said.
 The impact extends beyond computers themselves. For example, utilities have begun deploying sophisticated time-of-use meters that measure electricity consumption, often at 15- or 30-minute intervals. They charge different rates at different times of day -- mainly for large commercial customers -- as part of the utilities' programs to manage peak loads on their grids. 
 Those meters have to be reprogrammed for the daylight saving time shift, sending technicians out for on-site visits costing $40 to $200 each, according to Rick Nicholson, an analyst at the IDC research firm.
 The energy savings from extending daylight time are not great, but could mount, according to studies. A report last year by the Energy Department projected savings in electricity at four-tenths of a percent each day of extended daylight savings time -- or three one-hundredths of a percent of annual electricity use. Daylight saving time modestly reduces evening electricity use. 
 Still, tiny savings each year could add up in the long run. The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a nonprofit group, estimates that the cumulative benefit through 2020 of longer daylight saving time would be a saving of $4.4 billion and 10.8 million metric tons less carbon spewed into the air.
 The 2005 energy bill gives Congress the option of repealing the daylight saving time extension, if energy savings are not achieved.
 But there is no turning back for the technology sector. The major software suppliers are offering patches and assistance to customers. The largest software company, Microsoft, has a Web site to help corporate customers and consumers, the Daylight Saving Time Help and Support Center, at microsoft.com/dst2007.
 ''This is a challenge for the whole industry,'' said Rich Kaplan, vice president for customer service at Microsoft. ''But for most users, this is mainly a nuisance issue. It's not as if you're going to lose any data -- your documents, e-mail, digital music or pictures.''
 Gregor S. Bailar, chief information officer at Capital One, a large bank and credit card company, has led a lengthy program to get all its data centers and PCs ready for the daylight saving time shift.
 For most people in business, Mr. Bailar said, the main problem is going to be synching calendars and meeting schedules. ''My advice to the common Luddite is to confirm, confirm and reconfirm your appointments in March and April,'' he said.
 Or perhaps not. Mr. Bailar suggested another option: ''What better excuse to miss that boring budget meeting, at least for a month?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The EDS computing center in Plano, Tex. It is helping its clients prepare for the clock change this weekend. (Photo by Electronic Data Systems)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (74%); HALLOWEEN (71%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); LEAN MFG (69%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (69%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (67%); MILLENNIUM (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); HOTEL CHAINS (50%) Computers and the Internet; Time; Watches and Clocks; Computer Software; Daylight Saving Time

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Forrester Research

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: FRED UPTON (58%) Jeffrey Hammond; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



102 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1755 words

HEADLINE: A Mortgage Crisis Begins to Spiral, and the Casualties Mount

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Even in affluent Orange County, Calif., the growing wealth of executives and brokers in the booming mortgage industry was hard to miss.
 For Kal Elsayed, a former executive at New Century Financial, a large lender based in Irvine, driving a red convertible Ferrari to work at a company that provided home loans to people with low incomes and weak credit might have appeared ostentatious, he now acknowledges. But, he says, that was nothing compared with the private jets that executives at other companies had.
''You just lost touch with reality after a while because that's just how people were living,'' said Mr. Elsayed, 42, who spent nine years at New Century before leaving to start his own mortgage firm in 2005. ''We made so much money you couldn't believe it. And you didn't have to do anything. You just had to show up.''
 Just as the technology boom of the late 1990s turned twenty-something programmers into dot-com billionaires, and leveraged buyouts a decade earlier turned Wall Street bankers into Masters of the Universe, the explosive growth in subprime lending turned mortgage bankers and brokers into multimillionaires seemingly overnight. 
 Now an escalating crisis in the market, which seemed to reach a new crescendo late last week, is threatening a wide band of people. Foremost are the poor and minority homeowners who used easy credit to buy houses that are turning out to be too expensive for them now that mortgage rates are going up, but the pain is also being felt widely throughout the business world. 
 Large companies that bought subprime lenders during the boom, like H&R Block and HSBC, are now scrambling to sell them or scale back their exposure. Many investors are also likely to suffer: Wall Street firms made billions in fees, commissions and trading revenue from packaging and selling subprime mortgages to them as bonds.
 New Century has emerged as a poster child for the lenders that rode that boom to the top and are now in free fall. The company disclosed on Friday that federal prosecutors and securities regulators were investigating stock sales and accounting errors. The latter could jeopardize billions of dollars in financing for the company, which issued $39.4 billion in subprime loans in the first nine months of last year.
 Weakening home prices and rising default rates have rocked the subprime business. But for those who cashed out before the market turned, the ride up was particularly sweet. The three founders of New Century, for example, together made more than $40.5 million in profits from selling shares in the company from 2004 to 2006, according to an analysis by Thomson Financial. They collected millions of dollars more in dividends, salaries, bonuses and perks. 
 The company said in a statement yesterday that the founders were ''still significant shareholders,'' noting that they collectively owned about 7 percent of the company at the end of last year. 
 New Century's stock price, which seemed to mirror the trajectory of the subprime business, peaked at nearly $66 a share in December of 2004 and traded in the $40s most of last year; on Friday, it was trading at $11 a share after the market closed. In a series of sales from August to November, two of the company's founders sold shares for an average price of about $40 a share, for a total profit of $21.4 million.
 It is not known whether the stock sales by the founders are among the sales being examined by federal investigators. Some of them had been part of scheduled stock sales that are often used by executives to diversify their portfolios. But some of the sales occurred on the same day that the executives entered the plans. A New Century spokeswoman, Laura Oberhelman, said that executives declined further comment. 
 The founders' stock also rose in the social circles of southern California, the epicenter of the boom in subprime. Five of the 10 biggest providers of subprime mortgages last year had their headquarters in the region. 
 Robert K. Cole, 60, a co-founder who retired as chairman and chief executive last year, lives in a 6,100-square-foot oceanfront home in Laguna Beach that is valued at tens of millions of dollars and was once owned by the chief executive of Pimco Advisors, the giant bond trading and management firm. Edward F. Gotschall, 52, another co-founder who is vice chairman of the board, donated $3 million for an expanded trauma center at Mission Hospital that will be named for him and his wife Susan. 
 The executives from New Century are by no means alone in cashing in on the bonanza, and they do not appear to have scored the biggest profits. That title may be claimed by Angelo R. Mozilo, the chief executive of Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest stand-alone mortgage company and one of the largest subprime lenders last year. He reaped more than $270 million in profits from sales of stock and the exercise of stock options from 2004 to the start of this year, according to the Thompson analysis. 
 Of course, most of the 500,000 people who work in the mortgage industry did not cash in so grandly. The wealth was concentrated among executives, loan officers and brokers, because the greatest rewards were meted out in the form of commissions, bonuses and stock awards. 
 ''In the hot times, it was not unusual to see a broker make a million bucks,'' said Guy Cecala, publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication. ''You can carry that up further to people who ran the companies. The whole business revolves around personal compensation.''
 The hot times are clearly over.
 New Century's disclosure of the federal investigations on Friday was the most serious in a string of shocks to have rocked the industry in the last three months. 
 A handful of lenders have sought bankruptcy protection, several have been acquired and a few have been shut down. Also on Friday, Fremont General, a top-five lender, said it planned to leave the business. 
 Industry officials say they are seeing an exodus of executives and salespeople as companies fold, cut jobs and push out early leaders. 
 ''Everyone has run for the hills,'' said William D. Dallas, whose company, Ownit Mortgage, filed for bankruptcy protection in December after it lost financing from Merrill Lynch and other banks. 
 For the borrowers of these mortgages, it may become more difficult to refinance if lending standards are tightened significantly. Many are already facing the prospect of payment shock when low, fixed-interest mortgage rates adjust to higher, variable rates. 
 On Wall Street, big investment banks could lose a significant source of revenue if the appetite for bonds backed by mortgages dries up. 
 In the last two years many skeptics began warning that the red-hot housing market and adjustable-rate loans would blend into a toxic brew. Last year, subprime loans totaled $600 billion, or about 20 percent of all mortgages, up from $120 billion and 5 percent in 2001, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. More than half of subprime loans have adjustable rates. 
 Many of the problems that have surfaced thus far are not tied to the resetting of rates. Rather, they stem from a sharp and early spike in the default rates among loans issued last year.
 For example, about 13.8 percent of the loans in a group of mortgages New Century sold to investors in April were behind in payments or in foreclosure by January. By comparison, only 6 percent of loans in a pool sold to investors in March 2005 had met that same fate by January 2006. 
 Investors and regulators fear that the problems will only worsen as so many borrowers have fallen behind so quickly, especially at a time when the overall economy is healthy. The phenomenon suggests that lending standards were significantly weakened last year and that lenders were not as watchful for fraudulent transactions. 
 For New Century, the early payment defaults pose significant financial problems. In the first nine months of last year, Wall Street banks and investors that it does business with forced it to buy back $469 million in loans it had sold to them, up from $240 million for the same period in 2005. 
 The company was able to sell back about half of those loans at a discount of 26.5 percent. How it handled the remainder -- about $227 million -- is now under scrutiny. According to accounting rules the company should have valued the loans on its books for what they were worth today, not their previous face value. But it did not. 
 If it had, the company would have seen its earnings fall by about $60 million before taxes, wiping out most of its profit in the third quarter, according to Zach Gast, an analyst at the Center for Financial Research and Analysis, a forensic accounting firm. 
 This is important, because the company's financing agreements require that it not lose money for any rolling six-month period. On Friday, New Century said it did not expect to make a profit in the six months that ended in December and that it was negotiating with lenders to waive the requirement but has only secured six of 11 waivers it needs. 
 ''They had losses sitting on their balance sheets,'' Mr. Gast said.
 In August, the company's chief financial officer, Patti M. Dodge, announced she was stepping down from her post to oversee investor relations, a department that typically reports to the chief financial officer. Taj S. Bindra, a former executive at Washington Mutual, replaced her in November. 
 For the second time in a decade, New Century finds itself fighting to survive. The firm's roots were planted at Plaza Home Mortgage Bank where the three founders of New Century -- Mr. Cole, a longtime mortgage executive; Mr. Gotschall; and a lawyer named Bradley A. Morrice -- worked together. The three formed New Century in 1995 after Plaza was sold to Fleet Mortgage Group, now a part of Washington Mutual. 
 In the late 1990s, New Century narrowly survived accounting concerns and a scare in the bond market after Russia' s default in 1998. It pulled through thanks to an investment by U.S. Bancorp, a bank based in Minneapolis.
 With interest rates at historic lows, it quickly grabbed a big share of the fast-growing subprime market during the housing boom.
 ''They walked into a niche industry at a time when everything was lining up perfectly for what they did,'' said W. Scott Simon, a managing director at Pimco Advisors. ''In 2001, 2002 and 2003 the subprime business was just phenomenally profitable. Home prices kept appreciating and it seemed that no loans ever went bad.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kal Elsayed, a former executive at New Century Financial, said subprime mortgage lending was easy money. (Photo by Jebb Harris/The Orange County Register)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); BONUS PAY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (67%); HOME PRICES (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (52%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Securities and Commodities Violations; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); H & R BLOCK INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: New Century Financial

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Julie Creswell; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



103 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Welfare-to-Work Program To Draw Fire in Report

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
An ambitious city program to help welfare recipients who have physical or mental problems that prevent them from working has floundered during its first two years because it is poorly administered, according to a report that a community group intends to release today.
 The program, budgeted at $201.5 million for its first three years, is supposed to help 45,600 welfare recipients a year ''attain their highest level of health and self-sufficiency.''
In a 60-page report, Community Voices Heard, a nonprofit group based in East Harlem, concluded that the program, known as WeCare, had fallen far short of its goals since its inception in February 2005. While WeCare ''sets a national standard as a public assistance program that specializes in serving people with disabilities,'' Alexa Kasdan, the chief author of the report, concluded, ''the program design is not always translated into good practice, and participants often do not receive the supportive and individualized services that they need.'' 
 An example of WeCare's shortcomings, according to the report, is that half of those who were deemed to be employable but with limitations and were sent for vocational rehabilitation found those programs unhelpful. 
 One man said, ''It is just us by ourselves, playing cards and reading magazines.'' In one class, participants were asked to circle employment-related words -- like ''promotion,'' ''resign'' and ''trainee'' -- in a word-search puzzle. One woman said each class had 50 to 60 participants per instructor.
 In formulating its report, Community Voices Heard had researchers contact 737 WeCare participants from June 2005 to August 2006. A sample of 92 participants -- 45 by telephone, 40 in a series of focus groups and 7 in one-on-one interviews -- agreed to answer a detailed survey, which was the basis of the report. The report is expected to be released this morning during a public forum at the headquarters of the Community Service Society of New York, a major charity. 
 Of those surveyed for the report, 70.7 percent were deemed employable with limitations. But of that population, only 38.8 percent had worked on resumes and 46 percent had worked on computer skills, even though both are considered fundamental job-search activities.
 Vocational rehabilitation participants are typically assigned to the Work Experience Program, a workfare program that places welfare recipients in temporary jobs, usually with city agencies. However, 69.8 percent of those surveyed did not feel the assignments accommodated their problems and 72.1 percent felt that their assignments were ''not at all relevant'' to their career goals.
 Barbara Brancaccio, a spokeswoman for the city's Human Resources Administration, which runs WeCare, said she could not respond to the criticisms because ''we have not been provided with the report, despite our request for a copy.'' 
 In a statement, she added, ''The WeCare program is specially tailored to provide critical support for people with mental and physical barriers to employment. Since its inception, the program has made over 3,400 job placements and has facilitated over 2,300 federal disability approvals for clients. It is an effective tool to help people with difficulties go back to work. The agency will continue to improve operations and will carefully review all issues that require looking into.'' 
 The Human Resources Administration has undergone a major change in leadership in recent months. In December, Verna Eggleston, the commissioner since 2002, said that she would resign to work for a philanthropic foundation set up by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 In January, the mayor named Robert Doar, the departing commissioner of the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, to replace Ms. Eggleston. Meanwhile, Gov. Eliot Spitzer named David A. Hansell, who had been Ms. Eggleston's chief of staff, to replace Mr. Doar.
 The WeCare program is likely to be a key priority for Mr. Doar. It is one of three major programs to which individuals applying for public assistance are directed. The others are Begin, which provides basic skills and literacy instruction to people with limited education and English proficiency, and Back to Work, which gives welfare recipients training and job placement assistance.
 After an initial assessment, individuals referred to WeCare are supposed to undergo a three-part ''biopsychosocial assessment'' to determine their ability to work.
 Those deemed to be fully employable are sent to a job center for a work assignment; those deemed employable with limitations are sent to vocational rehabilitation programs for specialized job services. Those deemed temporarily unemployable are given health treatment and a 90-day exemption from work requirements; those deemed unemployable for a year or more are given help in applying for federal disability benefits. 
 However, the report found flaws at several levels of the WeCare process.
 The assessment requires multiple medical appointments, often in different locations. In October, Ms. Eggleston told the City Council that of the 119,885 WeCare participants referred for the assessment, 22,778, or 19 percent, did not complete it. 
 Of those who did complete an assessment, many did not consider it accurate or reliable, according to the report, which found that 52 percent of the participants surveyed did not agree with the results of their assessments. One man told the researchers that he had been asked for blood or urine samples and deemed fit to work even though he has pulmonary fibrosis, a chronic lung disease. A woman told the researchers that doctors hired by WeCare ignored letters from her doctors about a metal plate in her ankle, a herniated disk in her back and hepatitis C.
 Ms. Eggleston reported in October that 45,543 WeCare participants had been deemed employable with limitations but that only 2,500 of them had actually obtained an unsubsidized job. 
 The report also found that many WeCare participants had had their benefits reduced or cut off for failing to participate, even though they had not been notified about missing required appointments; that mental health services were lacking; and that WeCare was not effectively helping those deemed unemployable for the long term to obtain federal disability benefits.
 The bulk of the WeCare program is being carried out by two city contractors: Arbor Education and Training, part of ResCare, in Louisville, Ky., and Federation Employment and Guidance Service, also known as FEGS Health and Human Services System, in Manhattan. 
 The Human Resources Administration hired a third group, the New York County Health Services Review Organization, to review the WeCare contractors' work. Community Voices Heard urged the agency to make the reviews public and said it had difficulty obtaining records under public-information laws.
 The number of New York City residents receiving public assistance had fallen by two-thirds, to 380,740, as of December from a peak of 1,160,593 in March 1995. As welfare recipients moved into the work force after a federal welfare overhaul in 1996, those with major barriers to employment -- like drug and alcohol abuse, mental illness or physical disabilities -- were often left behind. 
 The city has estimated that about 55 percent of current welfare recipients are completely or partly unable to work. In February 2005, the Human Resources Administration overhauled its efforts to help this population, creating WeCare, which stands for Wellness, Comprehensive Assessment, Rehabilitation and Employment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); WRITERS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%) Welfare (US); Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; Handicapped; Vocational Training; Mental Health and Disorders 

ORGANIZATION: Community Voices Heard (Orgn)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



104 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: New Haven Welcomes Immigrants, Legal or Not

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, March 1 

 BODY:
The people have been arriving here for years from Mexico, Guatemala, Jamaica and Ecuador, some staying just a few months, but more settling in for years. 
 The way Mayor John DeStefano saw it, there were basically two choices: City officials could look the other way, as if the change were not happening, or they could embrace the transformation, doing whatever was possible to welcome the newcomers.
For now, this city is marching steadily toward becoming a safe haven for immigrants -- whether they are in the country legally or not. 
 The Police Department has adopted a sort of ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy regarding citizenship status. City Hall is sponsoring workshops to help illegal immigrants file federal income taxes. And this summer, New Haven plans to allow illegal immigrants to apply for municipal identification cards, in what immigration advocates describe as the first program of its type in the nation. 
 City officials and immigrant-rights advocates hope these and other initiatives will make immigrants feel more comfortable dealing with life's bureaucratic necessities -- and make them less wary of the police. Officials say the decisions are more pragmatic than ideological, even in this overwhelmingly liberal city of 125,000, where advocates estimate that 3,000 to 5,000 illegal immigrants live in Fair Haven, New Haven's predominantly Latino neighborhood.
 ''It stems from a simple central fact that when you've got a lot of people living in one place, you have to have certain rules for stability,'' Mr. DeStefano said. ''You have this population that works hard and lives among us as neighbors; we ought to know who they are. The last thing you want is them not to talk to City Hall because they are afraid of us.''
 New Haven's welcoming policies have, in many ways, trickled down from larger cities like New York, Los Angeles and Houston, but stand in sharp contrast to the expanding crackdown on immigrants announced last week in Suffolk County on Long Island.
 Saying that illegal immigrants were hurting Long Island's economy and quality of life, Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, called for antiloitering legislation to clear day laborers off the streets; vowed to enforce a county law penalizing businesses for hiring illegal immigrants; and welcomed federal immigration officials into the local jail to speed deportation of those who are arrested. 
 At the same time, immigrant groups in New Jersey are working with Hackensack, Paterson and other places to pass resolutions prohibiting the police or other city officials from questioning residents about their immigration status, joining Newark and Trenton in becoming so-called sanctuary cities.
 As more immigrants have bypassed larger cities in favor of smaller cities and towns on the outer rings of urban areas, local governments are increasingly torn by questions like how building inspectors should handle overcrowded apartments and whether garbage collection and other services can be denied based on immigration status. 
 The issue seems less fraught with tension in New Haven, the home of Yale University and long a hub of liberal social movements. When Mayor DeStefano floated the idea of municipal ID cards here in late 2005, the news ricocheted on conservative talk radio shows, but there were no protests on the steps of City Hall or major outcries from residents. 
 Indeed, the city had been under pressure to formalize a longstanding policy that police officers would not ask for the immigration status of a person who reported a crime. 
 Police and city officials have long worried that immigrants had become targets for robbery because they often get paid in cash and carry large sums of money; some said that immigrants were viewed as ''walking A.T.M.'s'' because they were easy victims who probably would not report crimes for fear of deportation. Indeed, there were several instances in which robbery victims went to community centers for help rather than risk calling the police.
 Even if confrontations with the police are isolated exceptions, reports and rumors of them ripple quickly through the immigrant community, which is centered in the Fair Haven neighborhood north of downtown. 
 ''It's simple. There are some police who want to help, who just want to get the criminals, and there are others who want to cause trouble and scare us,'' Pedro Martinez, who has lived in Fair Haven for three years, said in Spanish. ''We try to tell each other where it's safe to walk, which are the good officers, but it's not always right.'' 
 Mr. Martinez said that he and his friends knew about the Police Department's new policy, but that it was too soon to tell how much of a difference it would make. 
 Still, there were signs of reluctance in some quarters. When the Police Department moved to put its longstanding policy into writing, police union officials worried they could be held liable by the federal government. After the city had an immigration lawyer assure them that they were not legally obliged to go after civil law violations, the union said it would back the policy, but some doubters remain. 
 ''Everybody is looking at this as if we were just one big happy family or as if we live in 'Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,' but that's not the case,'' said Louis Cavalier, the police union president. ''These are people who are breaking the law; when they find them they should put them in the car and ship them back home. Instead, you have people calling their relatives and saying, 'Hey, come here, where it's safe.' '' 
 Immigration experts doubt a city's policies could affect an immigrant's destination more than, say, where relatives live or jobs can be found, but there is at least tacit acknowledgment here that there is political will to try things in New Haven that would be shunned in more conservative communities.
 City officials essentially shelved plans for municipal identification cards while Mr. DeStefano was running as the Democratic candidate for governor, though he said he rarely heard complaints about them while campaigning. 
 Late last year, he hired Kica Matos, the former director of Junta for Progressive Action, an immigration advocacy and community center, as community affairs director at City Hall, and Ms. Matos plans to put several immigrant-friendly policies into effect, including the identification cards. 
 Like most states, Connecticut requires proof of legal citizenship or residency for driver's licenses, making it nearly impossible for most illegal immigrants to have an official identification card to use in banks, bars or when dealing with the police. 
 Though other cities have long distributed identification cards for particular city services, like borrowing books from the library, this would be the first to be issued for general use. 
 There are still several kinks to be ironed out, including how to encourage legal residents to get the card so that it does not become a de facto scarlet letter for those here illegally. But officials are optimistic that children, Yale students and supportive New Haven residents will sign up; they have also considered asking local businesses to offer some kind of discount for those with the card. 
 ''We know that there is interest from the immigrant community for something like this and that the need for an ID outweighs the potential nervousness about not wanting anyone to know who you are,'' said Michael Wishnie, a law professor at Yale who has lobbied the city for immigrant-friendly policies. 
 For example, Professor Wishnie said, thousands of illegal immigrants have signed up for an individual taxpayer identification number with the Internal Revenue Service, which allows them to pay federal taxes. Many immigrants believe that filing taxes will allow them to prove that they have been working, law-abiding residents if they are eventually considered for citizenship. 
 This year, for the first time, the city used several workers to recruit immigrants to its low-income tax counseling program. Junta, the primary community agency running the program, has had dozens of applicants come through its doors in the last month. 
 Maria, who asked that her last name not be used, was fairly typical of the applicants. She said she had lived in the United States for eight years and had always had a job -- sometimes for cash, sometimes for a check. As she sat down with a Junta tax counselor, she pulled out W-2 forms for each of the last five years, detailing how much money she had made in her job at a laundry. 
 ''Can I pay for all of these years?'' Maria asked, seemingly eager to send the government any money she might owe. 
 When the counselor replied that she would do the 2006 forms first, and then could do the last three years, Maria looked down at the stack of papers. 
 ''See, this is what I hope,'' she said a few minutes later, motioning to her young son sitting next to her. ''That if I pay, I can do what they want me to do and become a citizen like my children.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Huizar of Junta for Progressive Action, an organization that serves New Haven's Latino residents, helps a couple with their taxes. (Photo by Andrew Henderson for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); REFUGEES (76%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); DEPORTATION (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (60%); INCOME TAX (54%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Identification Devices; Citizenship; Taxation; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Jennifer Medina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) New Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



105 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: Without Health Benefits, a Good Life Turns Fragile

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: SALISBURY, N.C. 

 BODY:
Vicki H. Readling vividly remembers the start of 2006.
 ''Everybody was saying, 'Happy new year,' '' Ms. Readling recalled. ''But I remember going straight to bed and lying down scared to death because I knew that at that very minute, after midnight, I was without insurance. I was kissing away a bad year of cancer. But I was getting ready to open up to a door of hell.''
 Ms. Readling, a 50-year-old real estate agent, is one of nearly 47 million people in America with no health insurance. 
 Increasingly, the problem affects middle-class people like Ms. Readling, who said she made about $60,000 last year. As an independent contractor, like many real estate agents, Ms. Readling does not receive health benefits from an employer. She tried to buy a policy in the individual insurance market, but -- having had cancer -- could not obtain coverage, except at a price exceeding $27,000 a year, which was more than she could pay. 
 ''I don't know which was worse, being told that I had cancer or finding that I could not get insurance,'' Ms. Readling (pronounced RED-ling) said in an interview in her office, near the tree-lined streets and stately old homes of this city in the Piedmont region of North Carolina.
 It is well known that the ranks of the uninsured have been swelling; federal figures show an increase of 6.8 million since 2000. 
 But the surprise is that the uninsured are not necessarily the poor, the unemployed and the undocumented. Solidly middle-class people like Ms. Readling are one of the fastest growing subgroups. 
 And that is one reason, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, that the problems of the uninsured have jumped to the top of the domestic political agenda in Washington and on the campaign trail. 
 Today, more than one-third of the uninsured -- 17 million of the nearly 47 million -- have family incomes of $40,000 or more, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonpartisan organization. More than two-thirds of the uninsured are in households with at least one full-time worker. 
 Ms. Readling's experience is typical; people who have had serious illnesses often have difficulty obtaining insurance. If coverage is available, the premiums are often more than they can afford.
 While the government does not have an official definition of ''middle class,'' one commonly used point of reference is the median household income, which was $46,326 in 2005. 
 Katherine Swartz, a professor of health policy and economics at Harvard, said the soaring cost of health care was a major reason for the increase in the number of uninsured. She said it also reflected long-term changes in the economy, like the decline in manufacturing jobs and the growth in the share of workers in service industries and small businesses, which are less likely to provide health benefits.
 Moreover, Ms. Swartz said, ''Companies have become more aggressive in hiring people as temporary or contract workers with no fringe benefits.''
 The National Association of Realtors says 28 percent of its 1.3 million members are without health insurance. 
 ''Because real estate agents are independent contractors, they are forced into the individual insurance market, where there is no negotiating or leverage,'' said Pat V. Combs, president of the association.
 As an independent contractor with a Century 21 real estate brokerage, Ms. Readling had bought insurance on her own, a temporary extension of coverage from a prior job. But she was unable to renew it after she had surgery for breast cancer in 2005. Most insurers would not offer her coverage, she said, and one carrier quoted a price of $2,300 a month for coverage with a deductible of $5,000 a year.
 Concerns about health insurance permeate her life.
 To save money, Ms. Readling said, she defers visits to the doctor and stretches out her cancer medication, which costs her about $300 a month. She takes the tiny pills three or four times a week, rather than seven days a week as prescribed.
 ''I really try to stay away from the doctor because I am so scared of what everything will cost,'' said Ms. Readling, who is divorced and has twin 18-year-old sons. Before every doctor's visit and test, she asks, ''How much are you going to charge me?'' She says she tries to arrange ''the best deals I can.'' But in many cases, the price is still unaffordable, and ''I have to do without.''
 Even those with insurance have reason to be concerned, economists say, because they end up paying for the uninsured in various ways. Some of the costs are also passed on to taxpayers and employers. To help cover the cost of treating the uninsured, hospitals often increase charges to other patients. Insurers then increase premiums for companies that provide health benefits, and they in turn shift some costs to employees.
 Ms. Readling is engaged to be married in June, to another real estate agent. But she said she may postpone the wedding because she would not want her husband to be legally responsible for her medical bills. 
 ''I am scared to get married because I don't have insurance,'' Ms. Readling said. ''If I have to go to the hospital and I can't pay my hospital bills, what happens? Do they go after him? Can they take your home?''
 To collect unpaid medical bills, health care providers often obtain judgments against a patient's spouse, as well as the patient, and file liens against their homes. Ms. Readling says she does not own a house, but her fiance does.
 The idea of universal coverage, in the form proposed by President Bill Clinton, proved politically untenable. Since the Clinton plan collapsed in 1994, the politics of health care have changed because of the steady rise in health costs, the increase in the number of uninsured and the erosion of employer-sponsored insurance. Politicians are once again speaking about universal coverage as a goal, though opinion polls show that many voters still oppose the idea of a government-run health care system.
 Ms. Readling said it was stressful enough visiting doctors every few months for her cancer follow-ups. Without coverage, she said, the experience is even more stressful.
 ''When you go to any medical person and they ask for your insurance card, you are so ashamed because you have to say, 'I don't have insurance,' '' Ms. Readling said. ''You just feel like you are dirt.''
 Ms. Readling said she often woke up at night, terrified of the cost of getting sick without insurance. 
 ''Anything that goes wrong with my health could destroy me financially,'' Ms. Readling said. ''I could be ruined.''
 She said she had never voluntarily allowed her insurance to lapse and could not understand why she was being blackballed.
 ''What did I do wrong?'' Ms. Read-ling asked. ''Why am I being punished? I just don't understand how I could have fallen through this horrible, horrible crack.'' 
 Knowing her health benefits from her prior job would expire in January 2006, she began shopping for a new policy in May 2005. But in June 2005, she learned she had cancer.
 ''At that point,'' Ms. Readling said, ''I called everybody I could think of, begging for help. But no insurer would touch me.''
 Barbara Morales Burke, the chief deputy insurance commissioner of North Carolina, said state law did not guarantee the availability of health insurance for individuals. ''Most insurers decline to issue policies to those individuals whom they deem to be too risky because of their medical history,'' Ms. Morales Burke said.
 Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina will sell to anyone, regardless of the person's medical condition, she added, but the premiums may be very high for people who have had serious illnesses.
 Heidi Deja, a spokeswoman for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina, said, ''Rates are based on the anticipated cost of providing care.'' For people who have had serious illnesses, she said, monthly premiums ''can run into the thousands of dollars.''
 A 1996 federal law limited the ability of insurers to discriminate against people because of pre-existing conditions. But consumer protections are much more extensive in the group health insurance market.
 ''In the individual market, the federal protections provide precious little help to people seeking coverage,'' said Karen L. Pollitz, a research professor at the Georgetown University Health Policy Institute.
 When Ms. Readling was shopping for insurance, she found two responses particularly galling. One insurer, she said, suggested she return to her prior job, at a furniture company, so she could participate in its group health plan, though she loved her work as a real estate agent. Another insurer suggested she remarry her former husband to get back on his insurance plan. 
 Working with her doctors, Ms. Readling raced to get as many tests as possible before her coverage expired. She recalled her anxiety in the final months: ''It's like a freight train coming at you, and it's going to get you. And there was nothing I could do.''
 Ms. Readling said she was mystified by the inability of real estate agents to band together and buy health insurance as a group.
 ''Why can't Realtors in North Carolina, or a few counties, have coverage under one umbrella?'' she asked. ''You would think that some insurance company would want our business.''
 Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said employee groups were more attractive to insurers for several reasons.
 ''In a group health plan,'' Ms. Trautwein said, ''the employer typically pays a large share of the premium, so most employees sign up as soon as they are eligible, regardless of their health status.''
 ''The health plan covers a mix of sick and healthy workers,'' she said. ''By contrast, individuals and independent contractors are more likely to defer coverage until they need it, so the pool of people insured is, over all, less healthy. Sick people consume more health care. As a result, the cost to insure them is higher.''
 Though satisfied with her care, Ms. Readling continually wonders if doctors and nurses treat her differently because she is uninsured. 
 ''Are they going to turn their nose up at you because you don't have insurance?'' Ms. Readling asked. ''Will they take care of other people first? They can make more money on patients with insurance. What am I? I am just a financial loss to them.''The Uninsured
 Articles in this series will explore the growing ranks of Americans without health insurance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicki Readling, a real estate agent, cannot afford health insurance. (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INSURANCE (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%) Medicine and Health; Surveys and Series; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Discrimination; Law and Legislation ; Consumer Protection; Hospitals; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Robert Pear; Katherine (Prof) Swartz

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



106 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: Oil Innovations Pump New Life Into Old Wells

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: BAKERSFIELD, Calif. 

 BODY:
The Kern River oil field, discovered in 1899, was revived when Chevron engineers here started injecting high-pressured steam to pump out more oil. The field, whose production had slumped to 10,000 barrels a day in the 1960s, now has a daily output of 85,000 barrels.
 In Indonesia, Chevron has applied the same technology to the giant Duri oil field, discovered in 1941, boosting production there to more than 200,000 barrels a day, up from 65,000 barrels in the mid-1980s.
And in Texas, Exxon Mobil expects to double the amount of oil it extracts from its Means field, which dates back to the 1930s. Exxon, like Chevron, will use three-dimensional imaging of the underground field and the injection of a gas -- in this case, carbon dioxide -- to flush out the oil. 
 Within the last decade, technology advances have made it possible to unlock more oil from old fields, and, at the same time, higher oil prices have made it economical for companies to go after reserves that are harder to reach. With plenty of oil still left in familiar locations, forecasts that the world's reserves are drying out have given way to predictions that more oil can be found than ever before. 
 In a wide-ranging study published in 2000, the U.S. Geological Survey estimated that ultimately recoverable resources of conventional oil totaled about 3.3 trillion barrels, of which a third has already been produced. More recently, Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an energy consultant, estimated that the total base of recoverable oil was 4.8 trillion barrels. That higher estimate -- which Cambridge Energy says is likely to grow -- reflects how new technology can tap into more resources.
 ''It's the fifth time to my count that we've gone through a period when it seemed the end of oil was near and people were talking about the exhaustion of resources,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy and author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning history of oil, who cited similar concerns in the 1880s, after both world wars and in the 1970s. ''Back then we were going to fly off the oil mountain. Instead we had a boom and oil went to $10 instead of $100.''
 There is still a minority view, held largely by a small band of retired petroleum geologists and some members of Congress, that oil production has peaked, but the theory has been fading. Equally contentious for the oil companies is the growing voice of environmentalists, who do not think that pumping and consuming an ever-increasing amount of fossil fuel is in any way desirable. 
 Increased projections for how much oil is extractable may become a political topic on many different fronts and in unpredictable ways. By reassuring the public that supplies will meet future demands, oil companies may also find legislators more reluctant to consider opening Alaska and other areas to new exploration. 
 On a global level, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which has coalesced around a price of $50 a barrel for oil, will likely see its clout reinforced in coming years. The 12-country cartel, which added Angola as its newest member this year, is poised to control more than 50 percent of the oil market in coming years, up from 35 percent today, as Western oil production declines. 
 Oil companies say they can provide enough supplies -- which might eventually lead to lower oil and gasoline prices -- but that they see few alternatives to fossil fuels. Inevitably, this means that global carbon emissions used in the transportation sector will continue to increase, and so will their contribution to global warming.
 The oil industry is well known for seeking out new sources of fossil fuel in far-flung places, from the icy plains of Siberia to the deep waters off West Africa. But now the quest for new discoveries is taking place alongside a much less exotic search that is crucial to the world's energy supplies. Oil companies are returning to old or mature fields partly because there are few virgin places left to explore, and, of those, few are open to investors.
 At Bakersfield, for example, Chevron is using steam-flooding technology and computerized three-dimensional models to boost the output of the field's heavy oil reserves. Even after a century of production, engineers say there is plenty of oil left to be pumped from Kern River.
 ''We're still finding new opportunities here,'' said Steve Garrett, a geophysicist with Chevron. ''It's not over until you abandon the last well, and even then it's not over.''
 Some forecasters, studying data on how much oil is used each year and how much is still believed to be in the ground, have argued that at some point by 2010, global oil production will peak -- if it has not already -- and begin to fall. That drop would usher in an uncertain era of shortages, price spikes and economic decline.
 ''I am very, very seriously worried about the future we are facing,'' said Kjell Aleklett, the president of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas. ''It is clear that oil is in limited supplies.''
 Many oil executives say that these so-called peak-oil theorists fail to take into account the way that sophisticated technology, combined with higher prices that make searches for new oil more affordable, are opening up opportunities to develop supplies. As the industry improves its ability to draw new life from old wells and expands its forays into ever-deeper corners of the globe, it is providing a strong rebuttal in the long-running debate over when the world might run out of oil.
 Typically, oil companies can only produce one barrel for every three they find. Two usually are left behind, either because they are too hard to pump out or because it would be too expensive to do so. Going after these neglected resources, energy experts say, represents a tremendous opportunity.
 ''Ironically, most of the oil we will discover is from oil we've already found,'' said Lawrence Goldstein, an energy analyst at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, an industry-funded group. ''What has been missing is the technology and the threshold price that will lead to a revolution in lifting that oil.''
 Nansen G. Saleri, the head of reservoir management at the state-owned Saudi Aramco, said that new seismic tools giving geologists a better view of oil fields, real-time imaging software and the ability to drill horizontal wells could boost global reserves.
 Mr. Saleri said that Saudi Arabia's total reserves were almost three times higher that the kingdom's officially published figure of 260 million barrels, or about a quarter of the world's proven total.
 He estimated the kingdom's resources at 716 billion barrels, including oil that has already been produced as well as more uncertain reserves. And thanks to more sophisticated technology, Mr. Saleri said he ''wouldn't be surprised'' if ultimate reserves in Saudi Arabia eventually reached 1 trillion barrels. 
 Even if the Saudi estimates are impossible to verify, they underline the fact that oil companies are constantly looking for new ways to unlock more oil from the ground. 
 At the Kern River field just outside of Bakersfield, millions of gallons of steam are injected into the field to melt the oil, which has the unusually dense consistency of very thick molasses. The steamed liquid is then drained through underground reservoirs and pumped out by about 8,500 production wells scattered around the field, which covers 20 square miles. 
 Initially, engineers expected to recover only 10 percent of the field's oil. Now, thanks to decades of trial and error, Chevron believes it will be able to recover up to 80 percent of the oil from the field, more than twice the industry's average recovery rate, which is typically around 35 percent. Each well produces about 10 barrels a day at a cost of $16 each. That compares with production costs of only $1 or $2 a barrel in the Persian Gulf, home to the world's lowest-cost producers. 
 Chevron hopes to use the knowledge it has obtained from this vast open-air, and underground, laboratory and apply it to similar heavy oil fields around the world. It is also planning a large pilot program to test the technology in an area between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, for example. 
 Oil companies have been perfecting so-called secondary and tertiary recovery methods -- injecting all sorts of exotic gases and liquids into oil fields, including water and soap, natural gas, carbon dioxide and even hydrogen sulfide, a foul-smelling and poisonous gas.
 Since the dawn of the Petroleum Age more than a century ago, the world has consumed more than 1 trillion barrels of oil. Most of that was of the light, liquid kind that was easy to find, easy to pump and easy to refine. But as these light sources are depleted, a growing share of the world's oil reserves are made out of heavier oil. 
 Analysts estimate there are about 1 trillion barrels of heavy oil, tar sands, and shale-oil deposits in places like Canada, Venezuela and the United States that can be turned into liquid fuel by enhanced recovery methods like steam-flooding.
 ''This is an industry that moves in cycles, and right now, enormous amounts of innovation, technology and investments are being unleashed,'' said Mr. Yergin, the author and energy consultant.
 After years of underinvestment, oil companies are now in a global race to increase supplies to catch the growth of consumption. The world consumed about 31 billion barrels of oil last year. Because of population and economic growth, especially in Asian and developing countries, oil demand is forecast to rise 40 percent by 2030 to 43 billion barrels, according to the Energy Information Administration. 
 Back in California, the Kern River field itself seems little changed from what it must have looked like 100 years ago. The same dusty hills are now littered with a forest of wells, with gleaming pipes running along dusty roads. Seismic technology and satellites are now used to monitor operations while sensors inside the wells record slight changes in temperature or pressure. Each year, the company drills some 850 new wells there. 
 Amazingly, there are very few workers in the field. Engineers in air-conditioned control rooms can get an accurate picture of the field's underground reservoir and pinpoint with accuracy the areas they want to explore. None of that technology was available just a decade ago.
 ''Yes, there are finite resources in the ground, but you never get to that point,'' Jeff Hatlen, an engineer with Chevron, said on a recent tour of the field. 
 In 1978, when he started his career here, operators believed the field would be abandoned within 15 years. ''That's why peak oil is a moving target,'' Mr. Hatlen said. ''Oil is always a function of price and technology.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian Roe, a production operator, checks valves at Chevron's Kern River oil field near Bakersfield, Calif. At right, pipelines and an oil pump at Kern River, where injection of pressurized steam has raised production. (Photos by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A11)Chart/Diagram: ''Scratching the Surface''The most widely used estimates of Saudi Arabia's reserves show the country has extracted more than one-quarter of its oil. Dr. Nansen G. Saleri, the head of reservoir management for Saudi Aramco, says the kingdom's reserves are significantly larger.Saudi Arabia's oilAlready produced: 106 bil. barrelsProven reserves: 260 bil.Proven, possible and probable reserves: 368 bil.Proven possible, probable and contingent reserves: 608 bil.Mr. Saleri's suggestion of ultimate reserves: More than 900 bil.(Source by Saudi Aramco)(pg. A11)Chart: ''The Reports of Oil's Demise Are Greatly Exaggerated''For decades, there have been warnings that oil would run out soon. But advanced technologies have made it possible to recover more oil from fields like Kern River in Bakersfield, Calif., that otherwise would have been exhausted long ago. Some experts say that sources that are not economical to develop when oil prices are low become commercially viable as prices rise, allowing for the recovery of huge amounts of oil that are not in current estimates of conventional reserves.GLOBAL OIL RESERVES (Billions of barrels)Already produced: 1,078 billionConventional reservesOPEC: 662Other: 404Arctic: 118Deepwater: 61Unconventional reservesOil shale extract: 704Enhanced recovery: 592Extra heavy: 444Exploration potential: 758Graph tracks the Kern River Field oil production (Bakersfield, Calif.) in millions of barrels since 2000Near 1965, steam flooding beginsGraph tracks oil price (near-month contracts) since 1996. The following are tracked: When energy sources become profitableSaudi oilEthanol and oil sands (with new facilities)Venezuelan heavy oilNorth Sea and oil sands (with old facilities)(Sources by Cambridge Energy Research Associates
Chevron
Simmons & Co.
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (86%); ENERGY RESEARCH (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); WRITERS (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Reserves (Natural Resources); US Geological Survey; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (72%); IHS INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (82%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Cambridge Energy Research Associates; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (72%); IHS (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); INDONESIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



107 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; TIJUANA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Cities Mesh Across Blurry Border, Despite Physical Barrier

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Mexican authorities complained recently that American construction workers putting up a barrier on the border between Mexico and the United States had trespassed into Mexico a full 33 feet.
 Promising an investigation of the diplomatic brouhaha, the American ambassador, Antonio O. Garza Jr., reassured the Mexicans, who are livid that the barrier is going up in the first place, that any improper step across the line was unintentional. ''The U.S. is sensitive to Mexican concerns,'' Mr. Garza said.
The accusation involved an episode in February east of here, near the Mexican border city of Agua Prieta and the Arizona town of Douglas. But it drove home a point that might be more evident in Tijuana than anywhere else: the border is a blurry one, no matter what barriers may be going up to keep people from illegally crossing it. 
 A case in point is Kurt Honold Morales, a citizen and resident of both countries, who drives his Mercedes sports utility vehicle with California plates around Tijuana, where he works.
 Mr. Honold, a 46-year-old telecommunications executive, recently became the mayor of Tijuana, when the elected mayor resigned to run for governor and Mr. Honold, a business associate and the mayor's No. 2, stepped in to fill the unexpired term. 
 ''We're connected, border or no border,'' Mr. Honold said, noting that his children go to San Diego schools and that his family has held season tickets for the San Diego Chargers for more than 30 years.
 On a host of issues, there is no separating San Diego, the largest city along the border, from Tijuana, the biggest municipality on the Mexican side.
 They are linked economically, with Tijuana's assembly plants, or maquiladoras, helping to fuel growth on both sides of the border. High home prices in San Diego have pulled up Tijuana's real estate as well.
 When it comes to the environment, it is difficult to say where Mexico ends and the United States begins. Air pollution knows no borders, and heavy rains in Tijuana send sewage and industrial waste down the Tijuana River into the United States.
 A former congressman once used a bulldozer to try to push sewage back to Mexico, but that was no permanent fix. For years, an American-financed sewage treatment plant on the Tijuana side has been considered the best solution, although now support is increasing for a plant to process waste on the American side.
 There are other cross-border irritants. When San Diego announced that it was replacing a leaky section of the canal that carries water into the city from the Colorado River, Mexicans complained loudly because their farmers had been irrigating their crops with the leakage for decades.
 Mr. Honold, whose German-Mexican father was born in San Diego, is hardly the only person whose life straddles the border.
 There is Elisa R. Penaloza-Aguirre, also a dual citizen, who teaches in a San Diego elementary school but moved to Tijuana a year ago for the lower home prices and so that her children would become fluent in Spanish as well as English.
 ''There are tons of people who commute back and forth,'' said Ms. Penaloza-Aguirre, one of 88,252 regular crossers who have a special American pass that allows them to use a fast lane at the California-Mexico border.
 There is metal border fencing running the length of Tijuana, but that does not stop people from trying to poke holes in the barriers, both literally and figuratively.
 For years, the San Diego-Tijuana Border Initiative, a binational antidrug organization, held its meetings right at the fence, with American members sitting on chairs on their side and their Mexican colleagues on the other. ''The drug problem does not stop at the border,'' said Veronica Baeza, the group's executive director.
 But American authorities soured on the meetings after Sept. 11, 2001, Ms. Baeza said. Now the sessions are rotated between the cities, though Mexicans without visas cannot attend the ones in San Diego. 
 It is hard to find a Mexican who supports the barriers going up along the border. Many are offended by such an approach, even those like Tijuana's mayor, who will be able to cross back and forth no matter how high the walls are built.
 On the other hand, Representative Duncan Hunter, a Republican who represents part of the San Diego area and is a candidate for president, has said building a wall between Mexico and the United States will be among his highest priorities if he wins. One of his campaign advisers, Lois Eargle, a county official in South Carolina, recently boasted about the advice she gave an illegal immigrant seeking legal aid for an abused child.
 ''I told her the best thing for her to do was to get back to Mexico,'' Ms. Eargle said.
 Luis Ituarte, a third-generation Tijuanan who lives in Tijuana half the week and Los Angeles the other half, has a much more relaxed view of the border.
 Just recently, his Border Council of Arts and Culture rented a house in Tijuana just a few steps from the border to use as a cultural center. Recently, it was the site of a cross-border poetry reading. Using bullhorns, poets from Mexico and the United States recited their work from their respective countries.
 ''Air doesn't need a passport,'' Mr. Ituarte said. ''Light doesn't need a passport. Art should not need a passport either.''
 Mr. Ituarte, who is a citizen of Mexico and permanent resident of the United States, chose the site of the cultural center not just for its proximity to the border. The house was seized by Mexican authorities several years ago when it was discovered that drug traffickers had dug a hole in the concrete floor and a tunnel that crossed under the border to a parking lot in San Ysidro, Calif.
 ''What better place to try to connect two cultures,'' he said. ''We want to break this wall in a subliminal way, if we can't break it physically.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the perpetually jammed Tijuana crossing, one of the world's busiest, cars frequently wait two hours or more to enter the United States.
 Brightly painted coffins, each marked with the number of migrants who died trying to cross into the United States in various years, hang from the metal barrier separating Tijuana, Mexico, from San Diego, Calif. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)Map of California and Mexico highlighting San Diego and Tijuana: San Diego and Tijuana are connected in a variety of ways. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CHILDREN (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); IRRIGATION (67%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); HOME PRICES (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Mexico; San Diego (Calif); Tijuana (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



108 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: In Wine Country, Pruning Isn't Just a Part of the Job

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: FORESTVILLE, Calif., March 4 

 BODY:
It may be the world's most boggling spectator sport. 
 Each February and March, hundreds of farmhands with razor-sharp shears take to the vineyards to battle for the ultimate prize in agricultural athletics: the county pruning championship. Once just a back-breaking, mind-numbing exercise in field management, pruning has become a sort of boutique sporting event across Northern California, complete with regional qualifiers, nail-biting finishes and strutting superstars.
''This is my sport,'' said Manuel Chavez, 34, a two-time county champion. ''I want to be back. I'm ready.'' 
 But on Friday, a new top Sonoma County pruner was crowned, after a showdown of 10 finalists that drew 150 spectators to a sun-drenched farm here, about 50 miles north of San Francisco, in just one of several wine-rich California counties to hold the contests. Competitive pruning even has an international flavor, with a bigger contest held in France this weekend, drawing about 350 of Europe's finest vine-shapers. 
 Fans of the Sonoma competitions, which started eight years ago, say they shine a light on a little-respected but vital part of the horticultural -- and economic -- process. And, of course, they have also led to more than a little gamesmanship down on the farm. 
 ''Pruning is really the first time you have to affect the quality of vintages,'' said Dana Grande, the president of the wine growers association in the Alexander Valley in northern Sonoma. ''And we dominate at it.'' 
 And while pruning lacks the tourist-drawing glamour of the fall harvest, those on the front vines of California's $125 billion wine industry say it is one of the last skill sets that demand a human hand in an age of increasingly mechanized agriculture. Every winter, thousands of workers fan out to fields across California's wine country to prepare the vines for the coming year, usually working from just after Thanksgiving to early March. 
 ''If harvest is the No. 1 job, then pruning is No. 2,'' said Joe Dutton, a fifth-generation Sonoma County farmer. ''The money comes from the harvest, but you have to have that money to pay these guys to prune. It's a big circle.''
 It is a grueling process, with crews of a dozen or more men working each ranch eight hours a day, methodically going from plant to plant, on acre after acre, cutting back dead or dormant vines to allow new grapes to grow. 
 In competitive pruning, however, the game is accelerated: each contestant is given five vines to groom and is ranked on both speed and quality, with deductions for things like poor-quality cuts and ''mummies,'' or desiccated grapes left on the vine. A good pruner can trim five vines into shape in about four minutes, or about the time it takes a world-class runner to finish a mile. 
 But judges at these competitions say the more important quality is precision and cleanliness, which can mean the difference between a vine stocked with healthy bunches of grapes and one rife with bunch rot. In general, each of the vines is expected to carry 11 ''spurs'' -- essentially offshoots of the main vine -- which are expected to produce two bunches each. But too many spurs can cause overcrowding on the vine, increasing the possibility of potentially devastating diseases spreading from grape to grape. Too few spurs, meanwhile, means not enough product.
 ''If you screw it up here, you're going to be paying for it all summer,'' said Nick Frey, the president of the Sonoma County Winegrape Commission, which has sponsored the competition for the last seven years.
 Mr. Frey said the level of interest and number of competitors had been growing ever since the first competition in Sonoma in 1999. ''This is the biggest pruning event we have ever had,'' he said. ''The quality and speed of the pruning was exceptional.''
 Spectators say the events are oddly riveting, especially for anyone with a passing interest in how wine gets made. Like at most big games, the crowd in Sonoma was predominately male and occasionally rowdy, clapping and cheering as the pruners snipped, hacked and yanked a series of rugged chardonnay vines into shape. Unlike most athletic crowds, however, the spectators here could talk you into the ground about plant biology, soil acidity and the relative merits of cane versus spur pruning. (Don't even ask.)
 One spectator, Rosa Brown, an office manager at the local Kendall Jackson winery, said she had tried pruning once and was impressed by the men's skills and endurance. (For now, pruning seems to be a male-only sport.)
 ''It's amazing what they do,'' Ms. Brown said. ''I went out there for an hour, and I came back and my arms were sore, my back was sore, my shoulder blades were sore. And they do it eight hours a day.''
 Considering the size of the American and French wine industries -- and the long-standing rivalry between the two -- it is not completely surprising that there are pruning competitions in both countries. The French held their national event this weekend in Charente-Maritime, on the country's Atlantic Coast. 
 And while the Americans value speed, the French, of course, have a much different focus, with a written exam, an oral exam and a slow-moving practical exam in the fields.
 Stephane Poggi, the director of marketing for Felco, a Swiss company that specializes in pruning equipment, said he attended championships in California in 2005 and was impressed by the pace of play. 
 ''In terms of quality, however, it's another question,'' Mr. Poggi said. ''French pruners are very good in quality, but they are not fast. I suppose it is a question of whether you are looking for quality or quantity.''
 A win at the county championships can mean instant fame on the farm. Mr. Chavez, for example, is well known on his ranch because of his win. ''Everybody knew him,'' said Celene Torres, a co-worker who helped cheer him to victory in 2005. ''Everybody knew about him winning.'' 
 It is also lucrative, with winners receiving prize money and bonuses from their employers. The winner at Friday's competition earned a little more than $2,200, or about a month's wages for an average farmworker. 
 But winners also speak of the pride of their hard work being recognized. ''My whole body was vibrating,'' Mr. Chavez said about his county win in 2005. ''It was very beautiful, and I was very happy.'' Alas, Mr. Chavez's chances for a third championship ended last month when he was eliminated during a regional qualifier after winning a preliminary round at his ranch.
 Like many farmhands, all of the finalists on Friday were Mexican or of Mexican heritage. (The competition's rules were given only in Spanish.) They ranged from the young and brash -- 23-year-old Gustavo Rico, who wore torn jeans, a scruffy beard and a baseball cap cocked to one side -- to Pedro Figuenoa, 61, who started pruning in Sonoma in 1971, before Mr. Rico was even alive.
 Neither man, however, could keep up with Samuel Campos, a 34-year-old who finished his vines in four minutes flat and impressed judges with his clean cuts and mummyless vines. His winning score was one of the highest in competition history.
 In addition to the prize money and a plaque, Mr. Campos received a bundle of agricultural swag, including gloves, T-shirts and, of course, shears.
 ''I'm happy,'' he said, moments after winning, as a mariachi band played in his honor. ''I'm going to have fun with it.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ezequiel Rojas, above, waiting to start his turn Friday at the Sonoma County pruning championships. He was one of 10 finalists in the contest, which highlights the importance of pruning to the wine industry. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); RANKINGS (86%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); HORTICULTURE (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); MEN (70%); THANKSGIVING (63%) Alcoholic Beverages; Mexican-Americans; Foreign Labor; Alcoholic Beverages

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley; Samuel Campos

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (75%) California; Forestville (Calif); Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



109 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 320 words

 BODY:
PAULSON IN ASIA -- Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., below, will head to Asia this week, stopping in Japan on Monday, South Korea on Tuesday, Beijing on Wednesday and Shanghai on Thursday. The trip will include meetings with the Japanese finance minister and the governor of the Bank of Japan, and discussions about the weakness of the yen. Discussions in China will also include currency issues; Mr. 
Paulson has urged Chinese officials to move toward a more flexible exchange rate on the yuan. In Shanghai, Mr. Paulson is scheduled to deliver a speech on reform in Chinese financial markets.ECONOMIC NEWS -- After last week's steep market decline, investors will be looking for signals about the direction of the economy, but they may have to wait until the end of the week to see much of substance. Two significant reports are to be released on Friday: one, from the Labor Department, on the unemployment rate and hourly wages for February; and the other, from the Commerce Department, on the trade deficit for January. OTHER TIDBITS -- The week will be sprinkled with a few more reports that may guide the markets to some extent: the Institute for Supply Management service index for February (Monday); revised fourth-quarter productivity and January factory orders (Tuesday); January consumer credit and the Federal Reserve's beige book on economic conditions around the country (Wednesday); and wholesale trade for January (Friday).RETAIL SALES -- On Thursday, retailers will report their same-store sales for February; the figures reflect sales at stores that have been open for more than a year. It was a cold month and analysts expect that the weather will have dampened results. COMPANY REPORTS -- Earnings season is winding down. Among the companies reporting this week will be CEC Entertainment, Chico's FAS and Conseco (Tuesday); and American Eagle Outfitters, Foot Locker, Saks and Talbots (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); SAME STORE SALES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); WHOLESALERS (71%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); CONSUMER CREDIT (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (66%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (53%); CEC ENTERTAINMENT INC (53%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (53%); CHICO'S FAS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); CNO (NYSE) (53%); CEC (NYSE) (53%); AEO (NYSE) (53%); CHS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (53%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (53%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (53%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) JAPAN (95%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



110 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Where Artists and Inventors Plot to Save the World

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
''It's starting to feel like Christmas and the family is coming in,'' Chris Anderson said, in his almost whispering voice.
 It's quite a family, as it includes Murray Gell-Mann, the Nobel laureate in physics; Paul Simon, the songwriter; Richard Branson, the Virgin Group magnate; and the founders of Google, Larry Page and Sergey Brin.
The occasion is the annual TED conference, named for the convergence of technology, entertainment and design-- with a dash of social activism thrown in recently as well. It is expected to draw 1,200 people to Monterey, Calif., starting Wednesday.
 Mr. Anderson, a former magazine publisher, took over the TED conference from its founder, Richard Saul Wurman, a graphic designer who presided over the stage like a vaudeville showman. He called it the ''dinner party I always wanted to have but couldn't.'' He filled the program with a collection of stars from various fields, like the musician Herbie Hancock, the architect Frank Gehry and the software tycoon Bill Gates. 
 Mr. Anderson (not the editor of Wired of the same name who wrote the book ''The Long Tail'') is as introverted and nerdy as Mr. Wurman is boisterous. 
 Mr. Anderson, 50, has changed TED from being a party to something blending a graduate seminar and a revival meeting. Mr. Wurman's passions have been infused with a sense of social purpose. The art being discussed is likely to be photography of genocide victims; the architecture, environmentally sustainable AIDS clinics; and the technology, water-purification systems. 
 And the centerpiece of the program is now the TED Prize -- an invention of Mr. Anderson's that is designed to motivate the conference's well-heeled audience to do something socially useful. Three winners will each reveal a ''world-changing wish'' and challenge those attending to help fulfill it. This year's winners are E. O. Wilson, the Harvard evolutionary biologist; James Nachtwey, a war photographer for Time magazine; and former President Bill Clinton.
 Now Mr. Anderson is taking even more risks with the TED franchise. He has started making videos of the TED sessions available to watch or download on the Web free. And he has started a biennial TED Global conference that will be held in June at the base of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. 
 At first some of the longtime attendees were unsure that Mr. Anderson could recreate Mr. Wurman's magic. 
 ''Chris does not have the same stage personality as Wurman had,'' said Doug Rowan, the former chief executive of Corbis, a photo archive owned by Bill Gates. ''That works to his disadvantage.'' Mr. Rowan plans to attend next year's conference, after skipping the previous last two.
 Nonetheless, TED has flourished. Last month, 1,000 tickets for next year's conference went on sale at $6,000 each, up from $4,400 this year. They sold out in a week.
 ''Chris absolutely, completely, totally believes that those three days at TED can change the world,'' said Steve Rosenbaum, a longtime TED participant and the chief executive of Magnify Media, a Web video company. ''It is quite intoxicating.''
 The elite clientele and the increasing focus on development issues evoke the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. But people who have attended both events say they are very different. Unlike Davos, TED attracts few politicians. And most of the action is in the conference, not in the parties and meeting rooms nearby.
 ''At Davos the general sessions are nice but very superficial,'' said Jay S. Walker, the founder of Priceline.com and chief executive of Walker Digital. ''It allows the Arabs and the Israelis to meet quietly in a room somewhere. You're not going to meet a Ph.D. in string theory or hear a talk about playing the lute at Davos the way you do at TED.''
 If there is something evangelical about Chris Anderson, there may well be a reason. His parents were medical missionaries who performed eye surgery in Pakistan, India and Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Anderson wanted to be a doctor as a youth, but after attending Oxford, he wound up as a journalist, starting magazines about computers at age 28. In 1995, he sold his first publishing company, Future Network, which was based in Bath, England. He started a second company, Imagine Media, in San Francisco and then bought back Future. Merging it with Imagine, he took the whole thing public, all while starting Business 2.0, the Internet-age business magazine. 
 ''We were pumping hot air into the bubble,'' Mr. Anderson recalled. ''We wrote about the new rules of the Internet. We believed in it. I still do.''
 On the side, Mr. Anderson also dabbled in dot-coms, helping to start Snowball, which was meant to be an online community for youth.
 The Internet crash hit Mr. Anderson and Imagine hard. ''Firing 1,000 people over six months was no fun at all,'' he said.
 But all was not lost. Business 2.0 was sold in 2001 to Time Inc., helping to stabilize Future. Snowball, renamed IGN, was sold last year to the News Corporation and is now a site mainly for video-game enthusiasts.
 Mr. Anderson ended up wealthy.
 The TED conference could have been a casualty of all that turmoil. Mr. Anderson bought it from Mr. Wurman in 2000, ostensibly to pair it with Business 2.0, but actually because he had started going to the conference and fell in love with it. 
 ''I remember watching Aimee Mullins, the paraplegic athlete, roll up her pants and unscrew her legs,'' he recalled. ''The way she did that gave me and the audience what I think has happened so many times at TED: a sense of possibility, that people can reach beyond where they are and do things that are surprising.''
 At the end of 2001, Future sold the conference to the Sapling Foundation, a charity that Mr. Anderson had set up with proceeds from selling his first publishing company. 
 After an overlap with Mr. Wurman, Mr. Anderson became the host of TED in 2003. That first year, he concedes now, was ''too preachy.'' One session had three presentations on Africa in a row.
 ''A few people thought I had ruined something very beautiful, and got very grumpy,'' he said.
 He apologized and has worked to mix lighter and heavier subjects. 
 Still, Mr. Anderson said he wanted to find a way to get the audience to do more than simply watch. That is what led to the idea of the TED Prize.
 Last year's winners included Cameron Sinclair, the founder of Architecture for Humanity, which helps design housing and other buildings for victims of natural disasters and for those in poor countries. His wish was to create a database of public-domain designs for use by anyone in need. With support from Sun Microsystems and others, the Open Architecture Network will be demonstrated at the conference this week.
 Even more ambitious is Mr. Anderson's plan to turn TED into a sort of nonprofit media company. In 2005, he hired June Cohen, the former editor of the Web news site HotWired, to try to develop a television program based on the conference. She found no networks that would show it.
 ''When the BBC told me that it was too intellectual for them, I decided to shift strategies,'' Ms. Cohen said.
 So last summer, TED began making TED Talks -- edited highlights from the conference presentations -- available to watch online or to download. BMW signed up as a sponsor.
 So far the talks have been viewed 5.5 million times by 2 million people, Ms. Cohen said.
 ''On the face of it, taped lectures should be boring,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''That's why the TV stations reacted the way they did. But these talks can be compelling and hold the audience.'' 
 Now Mr. Anderson and Ms. Cohen are looking to expand the TED Talks site. They want more content, like talks uploaded by TED attendees, and lectures from other events. And they are creating a social networking system that will seek to be a sort of MySpace for the change-the-world crowd. (One area will be open to anyone, and a more private section will be open only to TED attendees.)
 ''My foundation is all about levering the power of ideas to make a difference in the world,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''Suddenly we can use technology to bring some of the world's greatest teachers eyeball to eyeball with a global audience in the millions.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Anderson runs a conference of achievers in technology, entertainment and design. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Clifford Stoll, the astronomer and author, at last year's TED conference in Monterey, Calif.
 TED attracts luminaries from academia, business and entertainment. Al Gore, foreground, attended last year. (Photographs by leslieimage.com)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); CHRISTMAS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (74%); WRITERS (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); MUSIC (72%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); AIDS & HIV (52%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%); MOUNTAINS (50%) Design; Ted Conference; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: VIRGIN GROUP LTD (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (73%); RICHARD BRANSON (71%); SERGEY BRIN (56%); LARRY PAGE (56%); BILL CLINTON (52%); AL GORE (50%) Chris Anderson; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (66%) TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



111 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Chief Leaving After Brief Stay At N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4 

 BODY:
The president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People said on Sunday that he was stepping down after only 19 months on the job, signaling divisions within the organization, the nation's oldest and largest civil rights group.
 The president, Bruce S. Gordon, 61, a former Verizon executive who was relatively unknown in the civil rights community when he was tapped to run the N.A.A.C.P., said he resigned because of differences with the board over his role and the direction of the organization.
''In order for any organization to be effective, there has to be a tight alignment between the C.E.O. and the board,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''That alignment in this case does not exist.'' 
 In interviews, black leaders close to the organization said the reasons behind his departure stemmed from a dispute over its future role in a nation where the battlefront for civil rights has shifted. 
 ''We want it to be a social justice organization; he wanted it to be more of a social service organization,'' said Julian Bond, the chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. board. ''Our mission is to fight racial discrimination and provide social justice. Social service organizations deal with the effects of racial discrimination. We deal with the beast itself.
 ''There are many organizations that provide social services,'' Mr. Bond continued. ''We say, 'Good for them.' But we are one of the very few that provide social justice. It is popular to say that we are in a post-civil rights period, but we don't believe that.''
 Mr. Gordon said he did not believe that the organization should abandon its civil rights mission but rather that it should expand its role to include providing social services. ''This is not an either/or,'' he said. ''There needs to be the right balance between advocacy and service.'' 
 ''It would be insane to give up on advocacy,'' he continued. ''I just think we can do more than that, and should.'' 
 The news of Mr. Gordon's resignation came on a pivotal day for civil rights advocates, as hundreds of people, including longtime civil rights activists and politicians, traveled to Selma, Ala., to commemorate the 42nd anniversary of Bloody Sunday, a police attack on civil rights protesters that became a turning point in the struggle for black voting rights.
 The news shook civil rights advocates and diverted attention from the celebrations in Selma, where Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, who are running for president, were among those on hand to pay homage to the leaders of the Bloody Sunday march.
 ''On a day when you had so many positive signs that there was new life in the civil rights movement, to hear of Bruce's departure is surprising and shocking,'' said Donna Brazile, a Democratic strategist who is black. ''We all pray that the N.A.A.C.P. is able to recover and regroup.''
 Ms. Brazile added, ''To have the nation's oldest and largest civil rights organization without a leader is troublesome.''
 Mr. Gordon made the decision to resign in recent weeks and told the executive committee at its annual meeting in New York City in mid-February, Mr. Bond said.
 Mr. Gordon said he would leave the post before the end of the month. Mr. Bond said Dennis C. Hayes, the organization's general counsel, would serve as interim president until a permanent replacement was selected.
 When he was named in June 2005 to succeed Kweisi Mfume, a former member of the House of Representatives, as president of the N.A.A.C.P., Mr. Gordon took over a 500,000-member organization that was beset by a series of problems that raised serious concerns about its long-term viability, including revenue shortfalls and stagnant membership.
 The organization also faced ethical questions about Mr. Mfume, who had been accused of giving raises and promotions to women at the N.A.A.C.P. with whom he had had relationships. Mr. Mfume denied the accusations and cited the need to spend more time with his youngest son when he resigned.
 In taking the helm at the organization in July 2005, Mr. Gordon said he would apply his 35 years' experience in corporate America to push the N.A.A.C.P. toward a more economic-based approach to civil rights, including prodding pension funds and corporations to hire more black managers.
 ''We've got to get the right emphasis placed on economic equality,'' Mr. Gordon said in an interview shortly after being named president. ''I happen to think that when you have economic stability and equality that often becomes an enabler for social equality.''
 From the start, there were questions about whether he was a good fit for the organization. Since its founding in 1909, it had been led by lawyers, ministers and, in Mr. Mfume's case, a politician, with backgrounds in the civil rights struggle. 
 But Mr. Gordon was a creature of the corporate boardroom. After earning a bachelor's degree from Gettysburg College and a master's from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Gordon went to work at Bell of Pennsylvania and spent the rest of his corporate career in the telecommunications industry. Before retiring from Verizon in 2003, he was president of the retail markets group.
 His supporters said his lack of overt political activism and his corporate ties would make it easier for him to work with Republicans, particularly President Bush, who had a strained relationship with the organization. But others in the civil rights movement questioned whether he would lead the group away from its tradition of political confrontation.
 Mr. Gordon's difficulties with the board went beyond philosophical differences. Several people close to the organization said he thought the board was too meddlesome and did not give him the authority he felt he should have to run the organization. Members of the board, in turn, resented what they regarded as his belief that they were merely there to rubber-stamp his policies, these people said.
 Mr. Gordon made reference to these tensions on Sunday. ''I did not take this role to follow orders,'' he said, while acknowledging that he needed the board to approve his agenda. 
 The news of Mr. Gordon's resignation caught many people in and out of the organization off guard.
 Alice Huffman, a national board member from California, said that she was ''stunned'' by news of Mr. Gordon's resignation on Sunday and noted that board members had told him before he was hired that the organization's focus was civil rights, not social services.
 ''He knew that coming in,'' Ms. Huffman said. ''I'm really sad he opted to bail out so soon.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce Gordon, president. (Photo by Seth Wenig/Associated Press)
 Julian Bond, board chairman. (Photo by Rick Maiman/Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Blacks; Biographical Information

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%) National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People; National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Raymond Hernandez; Bruce S Gordon; Julian Bond; Dennis C Hayes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



112 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and Obama Unite, Briefly, in Pleas to Blacks

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: SELMA, Ala., March 4 

 BODY:
Evoking the passions and rivalries of the civil rights era, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton made deeply personal appeals to voters in the sanctuaries of black churches here on Sunday, and then joined former President Bill Clinton for a march across a bridge where white police officers beat protesters, most of them black, nearly 42 years ago.
 It was an extraordinary sight: the Clintons and Mr. Obama, two of them competitors for the Democratic presidential nomination, walking -- with two black congressman, and sometimes others, in between them -- down Martin Luther King Jr. Street to commemorate the footsteps of black demonstrators who were met with violence as they tried to march to Montgomery to demand civil rights in 1965.
The visit to Selma, a historically rich, economically struggling city, became a proxy battle for black support between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, whose candidacy represents a threat to Mrs. Clinton's traditional base. That competitive dynamic intensified on Sunday with the debut of Mr. Clinton on the campaign trail, six weeks into his wife's bid, and among a bloc of voters who are at once devoted to the former president and torn between his wife and Mr. Obama. 
 It was the first side-by-side appearance of Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton in the 2008 presidential campaign, and the political theater of the two campaigns overlapped repeatedly, but with a polite tone that contrasted with their political skirmishing of recent weeks. Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton spoke at services on the same street, three blocks apart, and the lines of worshipers were so long that they nearly intermingled. Both candidates paid homage to the same civil rights leaders, and both concluded the services by locking arms with worshipers and swaying to ''We Shall Overcome.'' 
 At different points, both Clintons said that the Voting Rights Act of 1965 had paved the way for Mr. Obama to run for president. 
 ''Today it is giving Senator Obama the chance to run for president,'' Mrs. Clinton told worshipers at the First Baptist Church, to enthusiastic applause. ''And by its logic and spirit, it is giving the same chance to Gov. Bill Richardson to run as a Hispanic. And, yes, it is giving me that chance.''
 Mr. Obama, before the commemoration march, praised both Clintons and said of the political campaign under way, ''We don't have time for other folks to divide us.''
 Mr. Clinton, arguably the most cadence-blessed speaker of the three, half-joked Sunday afternoon that he had been bested by the other two. ''All the good speaking has been done by Hillary and Senator Obama already -- I'm just sort of bringing up the rear,'' he said.
 If Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton had one overarching theme in their remarks, it was the honoring of the civil rights movement that had contributed to their own rise in politics and quests for the nomination.
 ''We're in the presence today of giants whose shoulders we stand on,'' Mr. Obama said at the Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church. ''People who battled on behalf not just of African-Americans but on behalf of all Americans, who battled for America's soul, that shed blood, that endured taunts and torment.''
 In a 35-minute address, interrupted repeatedly by applause and shouts of praise from worshipers, Mr. Obama said it was time for his generation to pick up the work of those who had toiled before. He said it was time for the ''Joshua generation'' -- a biblical reference to the leader who succeeded Moses -- to urge family and friends to shake their apathy to engage in politics and action.
 ''I know if cousin Pookie would vote, if brother Jethro would get off the couch and stop watching Sports-Center and go register some folks and go to the polls, we'd have a different kind of politics,'' Mr. Obama said, the crowd rising to its feet. ''Kick off your bedroom slippers, put on your marching shoes!''
 Down the street, meanwhile, the congregation warmly welcomed Mrs. Clinton, who blended personal anecdotes with a fluidly thematic set of remarks, in which she said the civil rights march ''is not over yet.''
 ''We've got to stay awake, we've got to stay awake because we have a march to finish,'' Mrs. Clinton said, ''a march towards one America.'' 
 Her voice rising, she said: ''Poverty and growing inequality matter. Health care matters. The people of the Gulf Coast matter. Our soldiers matter. Our future matters.''
 Both candidates, too, turned to stories from their past to show their connection to the civil rights movement.
 Mr. Obama relayed a story of how his Kenyan father and his Kansan mother fell in love because of the tumult of Selma, but he was born in 1961, four years before the confrontation at Selma took place. When asked later, Mr. Obama clarified himself, saying: ''I meant the whole civil rights movement.'' He also acknowledged for the first time a recent revelation by a genealogist that his mother's ancestors in Kentucky owned slaves, something reported by The Baltimore Sun last week.
 ''It turns out that her great-great-great-great-grandfather actually owned slaves,'' Mr. Obama said before another audience, over breakfast, at George C. Wallace Community College. ''That's no surprise. That's part of our tortured, tangled history.''
 Mrs. Clinton, meanwhile, recalled going with her church youth minister as a teenager in 1963 to hear the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. speak in Chicago. Yet, in her autobiography and elsewhere, Mrs. Clinton has described growing up Republican and being a ''Goldwater Girl'' in 1964 -- in other words, a supporter of the presidential candidacy of Senator Barry M. Goldwater, who opposed the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
 After the services, the senators were joined on the steps of the Brown Chapel by Mr. Clinton, who flew to Selma to campaign with his wife and be inducted into the National Voting Rights Hall of Fame.
 Indeed, the start of the re-enactment march was delayed as a crowd swarmed around Mr. Clinton, who smiled and hugged his admirers, a few of whom were even wearing Obama buttons.
 Mary Broadnax, 52, was walking closely behind, absorbing a moment she would never have imagined growing up in nearby Montgomery. After hearing Mr. Obama speak, she said she would do whatever she could to see him win the presidency.
 ''I love Bill Clinton, but if he came up to me and asked me to support Hillary, I would have to say I'm sorry,'' Ms. Broadnax said, pausing before unspooling a long string of attributes about Mr. Obama. ''He's the right man for our time.''
 The two political rivals, followed by large entourages and curious onlookers, had come to Selma three days before the anniversary of Bloody Sunday, a violent afternoon near the Edmund Pettus Bridge that became a turning point in the American civil rights movement. Dozens of congressmen and other elected officials also came for the ceremonies; among them was a House leader, Representative Rahm Emanuel, who represents the same state as Mr. Obama, was a former aide to Mr. Clinton and went to church Sunday with Mrs. Clinton. He has not endorsed anyone in the race.
 As they re-enacted the 1965 march, making their way to the Alabama River, the Clintons were at the front of the assembly, while Mr. Obama was often only two people away, separated by John Lewis and Artur Davis, the Democratic congressmen from Georgia and Alabama. They were all linked arm in arm throughout as they slowly moved forward on the two-mile walk.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Clinton, with his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, and Mr. Lewis, was inducted yesterday into the Voting Rights Hall of Fame in Selma.
 Senator Barack Obama joined the Rev. James E. Jackson, left, and Representative John Lewis in singing at church yesterday in Selma, Ala. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)Map of Alabama highlighting Selma: The senators spoke in churches near each other in Selma and not far from the Edmund Pettus Bridge, where protesters were beaten in 1965. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); RELIGION (77%); RIOTS (72%) Presidential Election of 2008; Blacks; Demonstrations and Riots; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (93%); BILL RICHARDSON (79%); JOHN LEWIS (73%) Barack (Sen) Obama; Bill Clinton; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Patrick Healy; Jeff Zeleny

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Selma (Ala)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



113 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Leaders Try to Resolve Split Over Key Posts

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 4 

 BODY:
Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president and the leader of the Fatah faction, arrived in Gaza on Sunday to meet with Ismail Haniya, the caretaker prime minister from Hamas, in another effort to iron out differences over a possible Palestinian unity government.
 Spokesmen from Fatah and Hamas expressed hopes over the weekend that the new government would be formed this week. But nearly a month after agreeing at Mecca, Saudi Arabia, to create a new government, Hamas and Fatah still disagree on important posts, including interior minister. 
The problem is not just the Interior Ministry portfolio, which controls some of the Palestinian Authority security services, but also the potential inclusion of representatives of other factions that are considered terrorist groups by the United States. Nor is it clear that the factions are agreed on a political document that is supposed to guide the government's work.
 Fatah and Hamas signed the Mecca agreement on Feb. 8, paving the way for a unity government. Under the terms of the agreement, Hamas can nominate an independent candidate for the Interior Ministry, but the appointment has to be approved by Fatah. Two candidates proposed by Hamas have been rejected by Mr. Abbas. 
 Mr. Haniya officially resigned as prime minister on Feb. 15 and declared that he would form the new government within three weeks. Palestinian law gives him another two weeks' grace after that. 
 The process has already hit delays. Mr. Haniya had asked the factions to submit the names of their ministerial candidates by this past Friday, and he was supposed to have met with Mr. Abbas on Saturday. 
 Hamas announced Saturday that it had submitted its names to Mr. Haniya. But Fatah officials have suggested that it will take several days until their party presents its nominees. 
 A Fatah spokesman, Ahmad Abdul Rahman, told Palestinian radio that Mr. Abbas would stay in the Gaza Strip for several days.
 The purpose of the unity government is to end internal Palestinian fighting, which has claimed about 100 lives in recent months, and to try to end the international economic boycott that crippled the previous Hamas-led government. Hamas came to power after winning elections in January 2006, but it is defined as a terrorist group by Israel, the United States and Europe.
 The countries of the so-called quartet of negotiating partners -- the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia -- have laid down conditions for a resumption of direct aid. In order to qualify, the new government would have to recognize Israel's right to exist, renounce violence and accept previous signed agreements.
 Hamas has so far failed to meet the demands in any explicit way, though Palestinian leaders argue that a unity government would come some way toward doing so. 
 A Hamas spokesman, Ismail Radwan, said that in their meeting, Mr. Abbas and Mr. Haniya would discuss the ''broad outlines'' of a political program for the proposed government. 
 Mr. Radwan told Palestinian radio that Hamas's ministerial candidates ''were chosen from the first, second and third ranks'' of the Hamas leadership and were ''far from the frame of political symbolism,'' suggesting a lower Hamas profile in the new government. Most have not served as ministers before and are not members of the Palestinian parliament, he said.
 A Fatah ''young guard'' leader, Hatem Abdul Qader, said the candidates would also include new faces. 
 The post of finance minister has already been promised to Salam Fayyad, a political independent and a former finance minister who has gained the confidence of the West. 
 In a new development, the militant Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command has apparently asked to join. The Popular Front is a Marxist splinter group based in Syria and is classified by the State Department as a terrorist organization.
 Like Hamas, it rejected the Oslo accords that gave rise to the Palestinian Authority in the mid-1990s. Unlike Hamas, it has not run for election in the Palestinian territories and has practically no constituency there. 
 Mr. Radwan said that if its participation were approved, the Popular Front could be assigned one of the portfolios allocated for independents and smaller parties, or one of Hamas's own. ''We are frankly interested in convening all the Palestinian factions in the national unity government,'' he said.
 Small factions like the Popular Front are ''in a struggle for survival,'' said Mahdi Abdul Hadi, director of Passia, a private Palestinian research center in Jerusalem. ''They don't want to be forgotten.''
 Being in government would give them legitimacy, he added, and would empower them for the next round in the post-Mecca reshaping of the Palestinian political system -- namely, the reconstitution of the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
 ''This is like a business relationship, in which principles are put aside,'' Mr. Abdul Hadi said. 
 The small, radical Islamic Jihad faction is an exception, having announced that it would not participate in elections or in any unity government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL FATAH (93%); HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BOYCOTTS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) Politics and Government; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (90%) Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Ismail Haniya; Isabel Kershner

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; West Bank

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



114 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: USING DIPLOMACY RATHER THAN THREATS: Washington Takes a Chance on Tehran

BYLINE: By Georg Mascolo and Bernhard Zand

 BODY:
Good news from the war zone: Syria and Iran -- both countries that have shown little interest so far in relieving tensions in Iraq -- will take part in a conference in Baghdad this weekend in a development that has taken many by surprise. The mood in Washington is astonishingly upbeat after this radical shift in strategy. 
 It must have been a cool encounter last Thursday when Hassan Kazemi Ghomi, the Iranian ambassador in Baghdad, met with Mithal al-Alusi, one of Iran's sharpest critics among Iraq's postwar leaders. To meet with Alusi, Ghomi had to travel a short but dangerous route -- one of the deadliest in Baghdad -- from his residence on the Tigris River to the palace where former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein used to hold conferences on the edge of what is now the Green Zone. His route took him through the notorious Karadat-Marjam intersection, where dozens of Iraqis have lost their lives in bomb attacks.
 "The mullahs," says Alusi, "will stop at nothing in Iraq. Not only are they providing weapons and money to the Shiite militias, but they are also doing the same thing for the militias' worst enemy, al-Qaida. We are afraid of Iran! If Tehran builds a nuclear bomb, Iraq will be in danger, not America." 
 The Iranian ambassador was considerably more relaxed, and for good reason. A conference is scheduled to take place in Baghdad this Saturday that could prevent a new war from breaking out in the Persian Gulf. If the conference is successful, a second meeting will follow -- at the cabinet minister level -- in Istanbul. 
 Alusi is an established member of the foreign policy committee in the Iraqi parliament. He knows all the bureaucrats who are organizing the conference, writing the agenda and who are in contact with the United States embassy, officials in London and the United Nations Security Council. Despite their differences, Ambassador Ghomi was not meeting with Alusi to argue, but to ask questions. 
 "Tehran only sends professionals to serve as diplomats in Baghdad," says Alusi. Ghomi, but also the Syrian emissary and the staff of outgoing US Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad are currently in great demand in Baghdad. The Jordanians, the Russians, the Turks and the Saudis -- indeed, anyone who still has an embassy in Baghdad -- are gearing up for a diplomatic sensation. 
 After a war of words that has been escalating for months, Iran and the United States are about to sit down at the negotiating table. Iraq, which has been the source of nothing but bad news for years, is simultaneously the organizer, cause and site of the surprising summit meeting. 
 Most astonishing is the Americans' sudden change of heart. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who only recently accused the regime in Tehran of "extortion," announced what she called a new "diplomatic initiative" at a hearing before the US Senate last Thursday. 
 What then was the purpose of the weeks of saber rattling that had the entire region worried about a new war? And was it the US's Jan. 13 breakthrough with another member of US President George W. Bush's axis of evil, North Korea, that prompted the sudden change in the Bush administration's Middle East policy? 
 The Iranian ambassador's composure reflects his government's approach to the upcoming Baghdad conference. Only two days after the expected announcement that it would take part in the meeting, Tehran announced a second, more unexpected move: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who had just received his Syrian counterpart, President Bashar Assad, in Tehran, would travel to Saudi Arabia, currently the US's key Arab ally, over the weekend. 
 When it comes to the Iranians, this sudden interest in negotiation raises a different question than it does with the Americans: Are they serious about the conference, or is their active diplomacy primarily meant to divert attention away from their nuclear program, which continues to move forward unchecked? 
 Bringing about the Baghdad summit was a major effort for the Iraqis. According to Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, the idea materialized last autumn from a position of weakness. Important political figures in Iraq -- including Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Shiite leader Abd al-Aziz al-Hakim -- were opposed to a regional conference at the end of the last year, making a successful outcome all the more important today. They and other critics had argued that negotiations between the world's major powers over Iraq's fate would only undermine the authority of the government in Baghdad. 
 So how could Iraq itself benefit from the conference? 
 Day after day, the sober news coming out of Iraq paints the picture of a country that many of its citizens have already abandoned -- and for good reason. The military situation in the country last Thursday, for example, was hardly encouraging. Heavy fighting in Iskandariyah, 40 kilometers (25 miles) south of Baghdad: eight deaths, 11 wounded. Bodies found in various locations in Baghdad: 10. Street bombs in Mosul and Baghdad: two dead, four wounded. Mortar attacks in Habbaniyah, 75 kilometers (47 miles) west of Baghdad: four dead, 14 wounded. Fighting between insurgents and government troops in Muktadiyah: about 10 dead and five arrests. Bodies found in Mosul: six, two of them beheaded. 
 It is worth mentioning that last Thursday was a relatively quiet day in Iraq. 
 As encouraging as the change of course in neighboring Iran and Syria is, though, it hardly seems likely that it could put a stop to the bloodshed, even in the medium term. 
 The two bloodiest fronts -- al-Qaida and Sunni militias against Shiite civilians, and Shiite militias against Sunnis -- have already acquired a life of their own. Whether this daily religious strife can be quelled, especially in Baghdad, depends on the success of David Petraeus, the top US commander in Iraq, and the new Iraqi-American security plan for the capital. 
 Washington plans to directly address Iran's support of Shiite militias at the Baghdad conference. At about the same time as Rice was appearing before the Senate, US Director of National Intelligence Michael McConnell claimed that Iran is training these militias to use special armor-piercing weapons. US forces had unearthed hundreds of these projectiles the day before in a dusty field near the Baghdad airport. According to US sources, the explosive missiles, which were found hidden in refrigerators and a large water tank, came from Iran. 
 Even Maliki's national security advisor, Mowaffak Rubaie, doubts that a shift in Iran's behavior can bring about decisive change in Iraq. In an interview with CNN, Rubaie claimed that Tehran had already "stopped a lot of their tactics and a lot of intervention or interference in Iraqi internal affairs" weeks ago. 
 But if there is such wide agreement that the conference is unlikely to achieve its declared goal of helping Iraq, at least in the short term, what constitutes its undeniable promise, and why has it triggered such a sense of relief worldwide? 
 Expectations have been especially high in Washington, although White House spokesman Tony Snow was quick to issue a "clarification" stating that there "will not be bilateral talks between the United States and Iran or the United States and Syria within the context of these meetings." 
 It appears that the White House is unwilling, at least for now, to issue more than a cautious signal that it is at least willing to explore the possibility of talks. Indeed, the fear that efforts to achieve rapprochement between the United States and Iran will ultimately fail has dampened expectations. 
 Nevertheless, Washington's cautious approach hasn't prevented others from pinning great hopes to the Baghdad conference. Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, a close confidant of President Bush, sees the upcoming talks at the ambassador level as the "best framework" for negotiations with the US's archenemies. 
 In other words, if things go well in Baghdad next weekend, Secretary of State Rice could soon be traveling to Istanbul to continue the effort. 
 Is the threat of war waning? 
 A number of examples from the recent past bolster this optimism -- above all in North Korea. In a situation similar to that occurring in the Middle East, although six countries were involved in the official negotiations with North Korea, the real breakthrough was achieved by US and North Korean diplomats in secret talks in Berlin. 
 The Dayton Peace Accords, which ended the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina in 1995, have also been an inspiration for what Secretary of State Rice called a "neighbors meeting " in the Gulf region. However, the architect of that agreement, Richard Holbrooke, noted a key difference last week: "Back then we could threaten to bomb; today we can only threaten to withdraw." 
 However one assesses the current situation, the important issue is that a war between Iran and the United States seems far less likely today than it has in recent weeks. The regional conference and the planned follow-up conference at the ministerial level corresponds exactly to the proposal the non-partisan Baker-Hamilton Commission made last December. At first Bush coolly ignored the proposal, but that is now changing. 
 With its new flexibility, the White House appears to be pursuing a collection of goals instead of a single strategy: stabilizing Iraq for the long term, reassessing its relationship with Syria and examining the prospects of achieving a negotiated solution with Iran. 
 The Bush team apparently feels strong enough to take a chance on at least a small measure of diplomacy. For months, Washington's strategy could be summed up as "driving up the price." Now the White House is convinced that economic sanctions, stationing two aircraft carriers in the Gulf and the US-Saudi alliance have unnerved the Iranian leadership. "They're worried," said Rice. Her deputy, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Nicholas Burns, agreed: "Iran is on the defensive." 
 Burns, who also handles the Iranian nuclear dossier for the US government, has noted for weeks that the Iranians are prepared to negotiate. "We're getting pinged all over the world by Iranians wanting to talk to us," Burns said. 
 The US government has no plans to withdraw the demand that Iran suspend its uranium enrichment program. Burns calls the idea that negotiations could go one for months, perhaps even years, while Iran calmly closes the nuclear fuel cycle "absurd." 
 Zalmay Khalilzad, the outgoing US ambassador in Iraq, can be considered the spiritual father of the Iraq conference and will participate in the presumably two-part meeting. The plan was rejected when Khalilzad proposed it in the spring of 2006 -- presumably at the insistence of Vice President Dick Cheney, the most unyielding opponent of Iran in Washington. Cheney, who insiders say is "frustrated," is likely to be unhappy with the current development. 
 Ryan Crocker, 57, Khalilzad's successor and the first Arabic-speaking expert on the Middle East to be named ambassador to postwar Iraq, will attend the second meeting, which will likely take place in April. 
 Crocker, a heavy metal fan and aficionado of pickup trucks, is regarded as a colorful personality at the State Department. The former US ambassador to Pakistan, Crocker is returning to Baghdad where he was stationed in 1979 and married his current wife. 
 Crocker, a dedicated marathon runner, has consistently volunteered for the most dangerous posts since working in Baghdad in the early Saddam years. After Hezbollah's attack on the US embassy in Beirut in 1983, which killed 64 people, Crocker, who was injured in the blast, helped dig in the rubble for survivors. 
 But he does not share the Bush team's optimism. On the contrary, in a six-page memo he wrote in 2002 to then Secretary of State Colin Powell, Crocker warned that violence could erupt between Sunnis and Shiites in Iraq and that Saudi Arabia would attempt to reduce Syrian and Iranian influence in the country. 
 The title of the memo was "The Perfect Storm." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); RELIGION (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); EXTORTION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); AL-QAEDA (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) INDIAN OCEAN (54%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (93%); IRAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007



115 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Citizen Bono Brings Africa To Idle Rich

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
If you are a rock star with a touch of the messiah complex, saving the world one song at a time has its limits. Even John Lennon didn't make much progress on world peace before he died. 
 So Bono, the rare rock star with an ability to make a dent in something besides the pop charts, has met with everyone from Pope John Paul II to President Bush in an effort to achieve debt relief and address poverty and AIDS in the undeveloped world. He is also pushing his agenda one T-shirt at a time with a product line called Red that includes clothing, iPods and credit cards.
But even those combined efforts have been slow going. So now Bono is opening up another front with an unlikely weapon: as the guest editor of the July issue of Vanity Fair, he will try to rebrand Africa. 
 ''We need to get better at storytelling,'' Bono said, sitting in the 22nd floor of the office of Graydon Carter, the editor of Vanity Fair. ''Bill Gates tells me this all the time. We've got to get better at telling the success stories of Africa in addition to the horror stories. And this magazine tells great stories.'' 
 Vanity Fair does tell great stories and serious ones, but it sits atop the American magazine industry, in no small part because it takes as its preoccupations the needs and doings of the idle rich. The current Hollywood issue is its biggest ever, 500 pages jammed with glitz, celebrity and so many ads that the magazine could injure someone if it fell off the coffee table. Just outside Mr. Carter's office, a framed to-do list with hundreds of items details Vanity Fair's preparations for one of its past Oscar parties, which is a long way from Mogadishu. 
 ''Bono will make a different issue about Africa than we would,'' Mr. Carter said. ''I think there isn't one editor in the world who would not pay attention if Bono pulled up and said he wanted to edit a magazine.''
 It would be easy to render in a cartoon -- storied rock star, fizzy magazine, collaborating to noble ends. But Bono doesn't look at wealth (fantastic wealth in his case) and charity as a contradiction. At a time when many people think they can consume their way to virtue, he is happy to accommodate.
 ''We are trying to deal with the Sally Struthers thing,'' he said, a stack of story ideas in front of him. ''When you see people humiliated by extreme poverty and wasting away with flies buzzing around their eyes, it is easy not to believe that they are same as us.''
 Mr. Carter has used his magazine to political, even partisan ends, including the second impending ''green'' issue and a relentless drumbeat against the current administration. Bono, on the other hand, gives the current president very high marks for making practical efforts to address the AIDS epidemic in Africa. 
 ''Hey, I'd meet with Lucifer if I thought it would do any good,'' Bono said. Mr. Carter gives up a sporty laugh at that, pretty sure he is talking about someone else.
 Bono has traded out his sunglasses for the editor's eye shade before. He guest edited The Independent in London and was the first guest editor of the French newspaper Liberation. And back in August, Elevation Partners, a private equity group in which he is a partner, bought an interest in Forbes magazine. 
 Some rich guys buy baseball teams or soccer teams, but Bono's tastes lean toward the sport of kings -- publishing. 
 ''I live in that world, the world of media,'' he said. ''I don't want to talk about Forbes right now, but I will say this: One of the things that I have learned of in Africa is the crucial role that commerce will play in taking its people out of extreme poverty. Everyone talks about China being the next big thing, but if you spend any time in the bars or hotels in Africa, you see a lot of Chinese doing deals there. There is tremendous opportunity there.''
 There is, of course, the danger that the effort to chic out Africa -- ''Africa is sexy and people need to know that,'' Bono said -- will seem like a hobby born of extreme wealth. His eyes narrow and he stands up rather suddenly when it is suggested that there is something a bit cheeky about the whole enterprise. 
 ''Really?'' he said. ''What is more interesting to me is that we are losing the fight against AIDS in Africa. There are still 5,000 Africans dying every day of a preventable, treatable disease, dying for lack of drugs that are available at any corner drugstore.''
 Mr. Carter frankly said that he hopes a co-mingling of brands will help sell a tough subject. ''We plan on making this an event with more separate cover treatments than the magazine has ever had.'' 
 ''I wanted him to change the title and call it 'Fair Vanity,' '' Bono said. ''He said he'd do that just as soon as I change the band's name to 2U.''
 Mr. Carter said, ''Bono really does see the world through rose-tinted glasses.'' 
 As a writer, it is tough not to wonder what it might be like to get a call: ''Bono doesn't think your story is working.'' Bono explained that if he wasn't singing in a band, he would have been a journalist, but that he may not be the writer's best friend.
 ''Strangely, maybe not,'' he said. ''I want this issue to be a best-selling issue of Vanity Fair, I want to make a hit record. These are the best writers in America, but I am a devotee of the 45,'' he said, referring to the predigital single that required economy and precision.
 ''I want to turn some of these novels into pop songs,'' he said. ''My colleague here,'' he said, indicating Mr. Carter, ''will fight for the writers, but I don't want the reader to be weighed down.''
 He's already learned the first lesson of editing: strike fear in the hearts of writers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Graydon Carter, editor of Vanity Fair, left, and Bono discussing his Africa issue. Bono suggested changing the issue's name to ''Fair Vanity.'' (Photo by Annie Leibovitz)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%) Magazines; Music; Magazines; Music

ORGANIZATION: U2 (Rock Group); Vanity Fair (Magazine); U2 (Rock Group); Vanity Fair (Magazine)

PERSON: BONO (91%); BILL GATES (51%) Bono (Musician); David Carr; Bono (Musician); David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (71%) Africa; Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



116 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Firing Off Another Round Over Health Care Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The Rev. Al Sharpton assails Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposed health care budget cuts in a new radio advertisement and mailings this week that will be aimed at New York City residents. 
 The development, announced yesterday, is the latest salvo in an increasingly hostile fight between the governor and two political forces that are sponsoring the media campaign: the powerful union 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East and the Greater New York Hospital Association. The groups oppose the governor's plan to cut more than $1 billion from hospitals and other health care providers in an overhaul of the Medicaid system. Mr. Sharpton's involvement could undermine Mr. Spitzer's support among black residents.
''With H.M.O.'s raking in excessive profits to the tune of $5 million a day in New York alone, it's unreal to me that Governor Spitzer would pick on underpaid nurses and health care workers in order to meet his bottom line,'' Mr. Sharpton, left, said in a statement. 
 In the radio ad, he says nurses ''are being forgotten in Governor Spitzer's budget.'' 
 Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for the governor, said Mr. Spitzer's budget ''will provide an historic increase in education funding and insure every child.''
 The governor was more blunt on Friday. He displayed the groups' logos next to the words ''Guardians of the Status Quo'' in a PowerPoint presentation he gave during a breakfast in Manhattan at which officials of both groups were present.
 ''My good friends at 1199 and Greater New York, I want to put your logos up here just so everybody will know who you are,'' the governor said.Driven by the Data
 Sixteen nails are scattered along the walls of Peter Pope's office in the Capitol, while a wire dangles behind his desk where there was once a clock.
 Clearly Mr. Pope, the director of policy for Mr. Spitzer, has not had time to redecorate since the Pataki administration's exodus. For the last two months, he has been immersed in hammering out a deal to overhaul the state's workers' compensation system, a subject that even the wonkish governor calls wonkish. 
 ''You know the feeling you have after exams?'' Mr. Pope, 48, said of his relief at getting the deal done. ''That's sort of the feeling.''
 Last week, the governor broke deadlocks on two issues that had long divided lawmakers: workers' compensation and civil confinement of sex offenders after their prison sentences end. Mr. Spitzer had turned to staff members from his days as attorney general -- now working for him in the governor's office -- to spearhead both efforts. 
 Mr. Pope said he was most surprised that there had not been a thorough analysis of the workers' compensation data before his work on the issue, adding, ''I couldn't understand how there had been years of negotiations, because people were just kind of talking about theories.''
 Mr. Pope met the governor back when Mr. Spitzer clerked for U.S. District Court Judge Robert W. Sweet and interviewed Mr. Pope for a clerking job in the office.
 For the past seven years, Mr. Pope led the criminal division for Mr. Spitzer in the attorney general's office. That gave him a long history of negotiating tough deals, whether it was persuading insurance giant Marsh & McLennan to pay $850 million to settle allegations it had cheated customers or getting former Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi to more than double his initial payment of $82,000 as reimbursement for using state workers to chauffeur his wife. 
 One difference in his new job? Before, he said, his good days meant ''somebody else has a really bad day.'' 
 ''Coming here is very different, and in this negotiation, what was very exciting for me is that everybody could do better,'' he added. 
 He is not sure what's next on his plate, but he has been looking for patterns in overlaid maps of crime, economic development projects, mental health facilities, parolees' residences and even trouble-prone bars. Data, clearly, will drive the process. 
 ''One of the things we're going to bring is just incredible factual thoroughness,'' Mr. Pope said. ''It leads to a just outcome when you're doing a case, it leads to good policies when you're making policy.''One Tough Governor
 Senator Dale M. Volker, a Republican from western New York, has been trying to get a bill on civil confinement for sex offenders passed since 1994. Last week, he was relieved to reach the finish line on a deal and credited the governor's help.
 ''I knew he was tougher than us on this,'' said Mr. Volker, 66, a former police officer. 
 So how did the governor succeed where Gov. George E. Pataki failed?
 ''I shouldn't say ill of him, but Pataki's problem was that he had a different style of negotiating,'' Mr. Volker said. 
 Mr. Pataki would criticize Assembly Democrats in the news media, he said, ''and then the next day tried to negotiate, you know?'' He added: ''Imagine if I told my wife, 'You're a -- all kinds of things,' you think she's going to be happy the next day? That's a bad analogy, but you know what I mean.''
 The new governor, he said with a knowing laugh, ''helped the negotiations along.''
 ''Eliot Spitzer, for whatever anybody may think of him -- and you know he and I have had a number of communications over the years when he was attorney general -- he's a pretty tough dude,'' Mr. Volker said. New Variable in the Political Calculus
 Bennett Liebman, who served as counsel to Mario Cuomo when he was lieutenant governor, wrote in the Times Union of Albany last week that a lieutenant governor cannot break ties when members are voting on legislation. 
 ''He can break ties on normal procedures, certainly on naming leaders in the Senate, on appointees, on resolutions,'' said Mr. Liebman, coordinator of the racing and gambling law program at Albany Law School, in an interview. ''He just can't break a tie on a law.''
 That analysis of the State Constitution's fine print would change the political calculus in Albany. Democrats have been boldly predicting that they will take the two seats needed to evenly split the 62-member Senate and give Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, above, a deciding vote, while Republicans beg to differ. 
 At any rate, a split Senate during the Spitzer administration would likely mean a Democratic majority leader, but at least one Republican would still be needed to win votes on legislation.
 ''There's obviously an ambiguity,'' said a senior aide to Mr. Paterson, adding, ''That question merits further study based on the way other states have interpreted analogous provisions in their own constitution.''

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); HEALTH CARE (92%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAID (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); POLITICS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); PRISONS (62%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (62%); LAWYERS (60%); SENTENCING (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (54%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Labor; Hospitals; Nursing Homes; Medicine and Health; Workers' Compensation Insurance; Law and Legislation; Sex Crimes; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments; Lieutenant Governors (US); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) Service Employees International Union; Greater New York Hospital Assn

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); AL SHARPTON (91%) Al (Rev) Sharpton; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Peter Pope; Bennett Liebman; David A (Lt Gov) Paterson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007



117 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH: Alex Dehgan; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Preserving Land and Wildlife, to Restore the Afghan Identity

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
Since June, Alex Dehgan has spent most of his time in Afghanistan, working to protect the country's wildlife and develop its first official system of protected lands. 
 The premise of the three-year project run by Dr. Dehgan, a behavioral ecologist and conservation biologist, is that conservation is critical for recovery and stability in a country where 80 percent of the population lives in rural surroundings and directly depends on local natural resources for survival.
The goals of the project, a joint effort by the Wildlife Conservation Society and the Afghan government and financed by a $6.9 million grant from the United States Agency for International Development, are ambitious: a legislative review of environmental policies, a baseline on wildlife populations, help for local communities to manage natural resources and aid for conservation efforts with neighboring countries.
 Home to the Hindu Kush range and the Pamir Knot, a region where four ranges come together, Afghan alpine ecosystems support species like Marco Polo sheep, the world's largest; Himalayan and Persian ibex; flying squirrels; and birds like griffon vultures and golden eagles. 
 Dr. Dehgan, 37, was born in Iran and moved to the United States when he was 2. Since receiving his doctorate from the University of Chicago in 2003, he has worked on conservation and foreign policy issues around the globe, most recently helping to rebuild the science culture in Iraq, including a natural history museum.
 Dr. Dehgan was in the United States earlier this year, lecturing at the Bronx Zoo, where the Wildlife Conservation Society is based, before returning to work in Afghanistan. Q. What kind of environmental problems does the country face?A. By 2002, 52 percent of the forest cover had been lost. There is soil erosion, overgrazing and disease transmission between livestock. The Afghan government has almost no information. Its records were lost. Its data was lost. 
 We're trying to restore information and digitalize manuscripts. We just completed surveys of avian and large mammal incidence in Big Pamir and Little Pamir. We identified 22 new species in Wakhan Valley.Q. You talked about trying to do conservation with pastoralists, agriculturalists -- people who are worried about the military seizing their animals or the taxes if they disclose the true number of their livestock. How do you incorporate these pragmatic concerns?A. The financial part of conservation is essential to its success. To the extent possible, we have to get them to see linkages of what the natural environment provides to the people and what sort of services they are getting from that natural environment.Q. Does that entail going house to house?A. We cross rivers in the middle of the winter. We get on yaks. We get on donkeys. We get on horses. And we go to them and we sit down and we talk to them. Part of it is understanding how they are dependent on those natural resources. Their entire wealth, their entire survival in a very harsh part of the world is livestock and the few crops they grow in support of being able to feed that livestock.
 If that livestock is overgrazing the land, that livestock population can crash, and they can lose animals, because there's no food to survive through the winter, and that loss affects the survival of people, particularly people who are nomadic.Q. An entire generation displaced by war has grown up in Iran and Pakistan. Three million Afghans remain refugees in Pakistan. What is the relationship between conservation and the identity of the Afghan people? A. The Afghan people are very closely tied to their land. And reacquainting them with wildlife and wild lands in Afghanistan is a way of restoring identity, particularly if you go to some of these houses where they have these symbols of the wildlife for their decoration. There's a historical legacy of the wildlife that has been there for these people. So just on that fundamental basis, to know the things that are Afghan, this assemblage of animals, is part of their culture.Q. How do you communicate an understanding of existing laws and policies to rural people?A. The people want to restore management practices for natural resources. We have to work with local communities and get them to understand the interrelations between how they are managing their resources and what the downstream impacts of those things are. We do conservation workshops in cold weather and heavy snowfall. The fact that people are willing to attend astounds me.
 One hundred percent of the 21 villages we asked to participate in the program said yes. We're training Afghan vets. We're working with the Kabul Zoo. The zoo itself is not a bad institution. It's partnered with the North Carolina Zoo. But half of its administration building is missing. Yet what it makes up for in its lack of infrastructure and bricks and mortar are its people. 
 One of the things we do with the government ministries is sit by side by side with them at the national level and local level. We include them in our training. If we give them control over their natural resources, they can defend against other incentives.Q. Such as the profits from illegal trade?A. Yes.Q. Hamid Karzai outlawed the trading of animal pelts by presidential decree, yet such trading persists. How do you address the problem?A. We don't want to do things by presidential decree. We want to have laws passed by Parliament, because that's how the balance of power works. So we're working on that. Animal skins from animals such as snow leopards are sold in Baghdad, and the expatriates and military forces are buying it. There is also illegal timber trade.Q. Explain the reaction of Afghans to your program.A. Extremely positive. One of the things science gives us is a common language that transcends culture. The respect for science is tremendous in the Islamic world. You look at the biological process the same way, no matter what your religion. 
 You can't overpromise, because the Afghans in the last five years have been promised a lot of things, and not a lot of things have followed through. One of the things we established is a reputation for following through. We have to be mindful of the fact that we are guests in this country, which means respecting the local culture and tradition, not coming in with an imperialistic perspective.Q. You are working on revenue from admission at national parks being returned to local communities. How is tourism a viable industry in Afghanistan?A. Prior to 1979, tourism was the No. 2 source of income. There's mountain climbing and river running, Marco Polo sheep. What is it worth to people to see those today? 
 One of the things we're trying to do is talking with these conservation committees -- three or four villages participate in each -- to manage tourism and work with tour operators to make sure that they benefit from tourism that's going on and to help train people to work with tourists. Because as soon as people see there are tourists to see that ibex or that Marco Polo sheep, I think they have an incentive to conserve.Q. Three years is a relatively short time. What are your measures of success there?A. The idea is that I will be replaced by an Afghan.Q. Given the challenges, the risk and the scope of the task, why do conservation at all in a place like Afghanistan or Iraq?A. Because I think this is the path to security. The path to securityin Afghanistan and Iraq is not going to be achieved through guns. They depend on natural resources and identify with wildlife. It's an element of who they are.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPREADING THE WORD -- Alex Dehgan has ridden yaks to educate Afghans about wildlife like Marco Polo sheep, above, the world's largest. (Photos by Top, James Estrin/The New York Times
 above, Beth Wald) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIRDS (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ANIMALS (78%); BIOLOGY (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EROSION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HISTORY (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RODENTS (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (50%) Environment; Rural Areas; Politics and Government 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%) Wildlife Conservation Society; Agency for International Development

PERSON: Stacey Stowe; Alex Dehgan

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



118 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Services Slackened in February

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The nation's service sector expanded at a slower-than-expected rate in February amid a slowdown in new orders that economists said might help cool inflation. 
 The Institute for Supply Management, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., said yesterday that its index of business activity in the service sector was 54.3, down from 59 in January. Wall Street analysts had expected a reading of at least 57 for the latest month.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while one below indicates contraction.
 February was the 47th consecutive month of business activity growth, according to the trade group, which represents approximately 40,000 supply management professionals.
 ''The overall indication in February is continued economic growth in the nonmanufacturing sector, but at a slower pace than in January,'' said Anthony S. Nieves, head of the institute's survey committee.
 The service industries covered by the report represent about 80 percent of the nation's economic activity, and economists are looking for the sector to be a driver of growth this year as the manufacturing sector struggles with weakness in the automotive and housing industries. The service economy is diverse, encompassing banking, construction, retailing and travel, among other industries.
 Mark P. Vitner, senior economist with Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C., said the moderate growth might help put the brakes on inflation. He noted that the weakening of new orders in February -- to 54.8, from 55.4 in January -- indicated that businesses were being conservative as growth slowed.
 ''This report, with numerous other anecdotal evidence, supports the view that there's increasing weakness in the economy,'' said Kevin Feltes, an economist with the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
 A continued slackening of the economy -- which is expected -- could help arrest inflation, Mr. Feltes said.
 The report's prices index moderated to 53.8 in February, from 55.2 in January. At the same time, the employment index strengthened to 52.2, from 51.7 the month before.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) United States Economy; Service Industries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



119 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Critics of Lending Practices Adopt a Harder Edge

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A BITTER fight over lending tactics that critics decry as predatory is heating up as the two sides introduce ambitious marketing efforts intended to woo consumer support in the struggle.
 A coalition of organizations that includes the Consumers Union, the N.A.A.C.P. and the United Automobile Workers plans to introduce today a campaign comparing the effects of so-called unfair lending practices with the havoc wreaked by natural disasters like earthquakes, fires, hurricanes and floods.
The campaign, by Benenson Janson in Studio City, Calif., is being financed partly by the Ford Foundation. The coalition, called Americans for Fairness in Lending, is seeking to amplify its message by teaming with a filmmaker, James D. Scurlock, who coincidentally has a documentary and a book on the subject, both titled ''Maxed Out,'' coming soon. 
 The campaign from the coalition, which includes print advertising and a Web site (affil.org), has been in the works for more than two years, its organizers say. The ads are being introduced 13 days after a trade organization for the payday-lending industry, which provides short-term cash advances, began a campaign centered on what it calls a voluntary ''customer pledge'' to help shield borrowers from abuses.
 The trade organization, the Community Financial Services Association of America, said it would spend $10 million on its campaign, which is being created by the Glover Park Group in Washington. The coalition campaign, by contrast, has a budget estimated at $500,000, although the member organizations are hoping to raise additional money.
 The dueling campaigns are indicative of the growing presence of issues advertising. Ads encouraging the public to take stands on timely, important -- and often controversial -- matters are increasingly appearing alongside pitches for packaged goods and other products.
 ''Lenders use advertising all the time to reach consumers and influence their behavior,'' said Brandee McHale, program officer in the economic development unit of the Ford Foundation in New York. ''We want to use advertising to spread the word about how to make informed credit choices.'' 
 The goal, Ms. McHale said, is to ''encourage an examination of how we are using debt,'' adding: ''Is it for asset-building purposes, to move up the economic ladder? Or is it wealth-depleting?''
 The organizations that belong to the coalition are answering yes to the second question. They point to interest rates on short-term or payday loans, which can run around $15 for each $100 borrowed over a two-week period -- or 390 percent.
 In the early development stages, the campaign was going to be ''about financial literacy,'' said Kirsten Keefe, the executive director of the coalition, who is a staff lawyer with the Empire Justice Center in Albany.
 But after further research, the groups decided to focus the campaign toward ''building awareness among the general public that we need more regulation,'' she added, to curb the excesses of burdensome credit-card debt, unaffordable mortgages and usurious payday loans.
 Members of the coalition wanted a campaign that would be perceived as ''different for folks from nonprofit organizations,'' Ms. Keefe said, by being more like hard-hitting, attention-getting ads for products and less like warm and fuzzy public service announcements.
 The ads depict unhappy families and their meager possessions in makeshift circumstances, as if they were evacuated or rescued from nature's wrath. In each instance, readers are told that the ''crisis,'' ''tragedy'' or ''disaster'' was caused by ''credit card debt,'' a ''400 percent payday loan'' or a ''late mortgage payment'' rather than, as they would expect, a natural calamity.
 Depicting the effects of ''abusive lending practices'' in that provocative manner ''really helped people understand it much better,'' said Howard Benenson, chief executive at Benenson Janson, compared with other approaches the agency tested.
 ''We have got to create a groundswell,'' he added, ''and get this into the popular culture as much as we can'' to help encourage Congress and state legislatures to restore teeth to lending laws.
 To that end, the coalition is joining with Mr. Scurlock, whose ''Maxed Out'' documentary is scheduled to open in the next two weeks in 12 cities including Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Washington. His companion book -- formally titled ''Maxed Out: Hard Times, Easy Credit and the Era of Predatory Lenders'' -- is being published by Scribner.
 ''It speaks to the severity of the situation, how out-of-hand it is, that nonprofits would want to see a film meant to be entertaining get distribution,'' Mr. Scurlock said.
 The coalition's logo will appear at the end of Mr. Scurlock's film and on posters, he said, and in turn the organizations that compose the coalition will encourage members to see the documentary.
 Other members of the coalition include Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now; the Center for Responsible Lending; the Consumer Federation of America; the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; and the National Consumer Law Center. Financing is coming from the Annie E. Casey Foundation in addition to the Ford Foundation.
 On the other side of the fence, the trade association for the lenders includes Cash America International, the largest pawnshop chain; Check Into Cash; the Dollar Financial Group; Express Check Advance; First Cash Financial Services, and Rent-A-Center.
 Print ads for the trade association carry headlines like, ''A customer pledge from the payday advance industry'' and describe steps that members are taking to address critics.
 They include a new feature, called an extended repayment plan, which will offer some borrowers more time to repay loans; adding to ''all marketing and advertising materials'' an advisory that payday loans ''are for short-term use only,'' and an agreement to refrain from advertising payday loans ''for frivolous uses.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ad by Americans for Fairness in Lending asks whether a tornado, a fire, an earthquake or credit card debt caused the makeshift scene depicted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); WEATHER (71%); BUDGETS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); PRINT ADVERTISING (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



120 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Shares Continue to Sink, From Hong Kong to New York

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
The fallout from last week's global stock dive showed few signs of letting up yesterday, as markets from Hong Kong to New York deepened their losses.
 Share prices in the United States fell for the eighth time in the last nine trading days. The combined losses have wiped out more than 5 percent of the American market's value.
Wall Street started the morning in the red, then bobbed in and out of positive territory. At first, investors appeared moved to sell by a report showing that business activity in the service industry fell to the lowest level in almost four years. But those losses were later reversed, and for much of the day it looked as if stock prices would finish the day with some moderate gains. 
 But in the final half-hour, prices dropped sharply. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 63.69 points, or about 0.5 percent, to close at 12,050.41. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fared even worse, losing 13.05 points, or about 1 percent, to close at 1,374.12. 
 The Nasdaq composite fell 27.32, about 1.2 percent, to 2,340.68. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies dropped 15.38, or nearly 2 percent, to 760.06.
 Another big sell-off in Asia overnight and more modest declines in European markets later in the day preceded the downturn in the United States. The Nikkei fell for the fifth consecutive session to close down 3.3 percent; Hong Kong's Hang Seng index fell 4 percent; and the Shanghai composite index fell 1.6 percent. In Britain, the FTSE 100 dropped 0.94 percent, in Germany the DAX index fell 1.04 percent, and in France the CAC-40 declined 0.73 percent. 
 Analysts in Europe said that the sell-off of assets considered risky was likely to continue for some days. But they said that the decline was probably not a sign of a recession and that it was unlikely to set one off. 
 In the United States, analysts said that a government report on productivity and labor costs due out today could accelerate losses. The report is expected to show that productivity did not advance as rapidly as first thought and that businesses spent more on employee compensation than first reported.
 Tim Bond, head of asset allocation strategy for Barclays Capital, said in a research report yesterday that news about the strength of the United States economy would weigh on stocks in the coming weeks. ''We should expect underperfomance of both U.S. stocks and bonds over the next several months, at least in the absence of a surprising recovery in productivity growth.''
 Others echoed that sentiment. ''There is a genuine fear that the correction will be more than 10 percent globally for the developed markets,'' said Michael Hughes, chief investment officer at Baring Asset Management in London. ''We had such a good run that there is a sense that money has been made too easily.'' 
 Still, some analysts say they believe the damage will be limited. ''This is the way that corrections work,'' said Garry Evans, a strategist with HSBC in Hong Kong. ''A week ago, everyone was very excited about the markets and now no one wants to buy stocks.'' 
 The declines extended a downward trend that began last Tuesday when the Shanghai stock market dropped nearly 9 percent. Many economists and strategists predicted that volatility could increase sharply in Asian markets as investors pull back from speculative investments and redirect assets to more mature markets, and as other investors look for buying opportunities. 
 This flight from risky assets has become particularly evident in currency markets. The Japanese yen, which rose again yesterday against the dollar, has been strengthening even as other Asian currencies have declined because many investors are unwinding some of their transactions, called ''carry trades.'' 
 In this trading strategy, hedge funds and other investors have been borrowing yen at low interest rates and then converting them into other currencies to buy stocks in markets with higher returns, like Australia, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. But they are now reversing many of these trades. 
 The retreat of investors from carry trades is now accelerating regional declines, analysts said. The more the yen rises, the more expensive it becomes for carry traders to pay off their Japanese debt. As they try to sell their holdings faster, they feed a cycle of rising yen and more selling. 
 Banking stocks have suffered as profit at financial institutions took a hit on bad loans, especially in the American mortgage market. But bonds have still performed well. ''If bond markets stop performing well, then it is more difficult for equity markets to recover,'' Mr. Hughes said.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury bond rose 1/32 yesterday to 101. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.49 percent, from 4.50 percent.
 Economists in Asia maintain that the outlook for the region's economies remains sound. Many are comparing it with the sell-off in emerging markets last May, a fall that had been mostly reversed by October. 
 Some countries published positive economic data yesterday, including strong capital expenditure figures in Japan, and positive news about pension funds in Taiwan.
 In the United States, investors await this week's employment report from the Labor Department, which will shed some light on the economy's current strength.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.744	97.545	High Rate	4.965	4.855	Investment Rate	5.112	5.060	Low Rate	4.920	4.820	Median Rate	4.950	4.840	Total applied for	$58,706,360	$49,885,837	Accepted	$29,152,883	$23,863,625	Noncompetitive	$2,133,776	$235,000	Both issues are dated March 5, 2007. The three-month bills mature on June 7, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on September 6, 2007.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (85%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%); BARING ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (95%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Japan; Europe; Hong Kong; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



121 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Start-Up Insurer in Florida Pursues an Exclusive Niche

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Most insurance executives look at the lavish houses and condominiums along the Florida coasts and cannot help thinking: hurricanes, wreckage, financial ruin. 
 But Ross J. Buchmueller sees opportunity. As most big insurers are cutting back coverage in Florida and other coastal states after a string of catastrophic hurricanes, Mr. Buchmueller has started a company offering policies that hardly anyone else wants to sell -- and at as little as half the going rates.
His strategy, he says, is not as daring as it seems. By studying industry statistics, he has found that big, expensive houses have fared the best in hurricanes. And his company will sell only to owners of those homes. 
 To be covered, a home must be worth more than $1 million. It must be fairly new, solidly built and equipped with the strongest shutters, or such high-grade windows that flying debris merely bounces off them. 
 Mr. Buchmueller said that to further reduce his risk, sales in the first year will be limited to a few thousand policies and he will buy insurance from big international insurance companies, known as reinsurers, that will cover 75 percent of his potential losses. 
 The cost of the reinsurance will sharply lower his profit. But Mr. Buchmueller, 41, has set up his company, Privilege Underwriters Reciprocal Exchange, as a nonprofit concern, owned by its policyholders. His reward, Mr. Buchmueller says, will come from a management fee, which should rise as the company grows and expands into a national business. 
 Mr. Buchmueller has been quietly selling policies for several weeks and plans to announce the opening of his new company formally today.
 Some insurance experts say the venture may inspire other entrepreneurs -- or groups of property owners, like condominium associations -- to create similar arrangements. Doing so could help break the crippling pattern in which big, established insurers reduce coverage, and investors in new companies chase ever-higher premium prices.
 But others are skeptical. ''It's a creative approach,'' said Michael Koziol, a public policy specialist at the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, a large insurance trade group, ''but like any new company, there's a certain risk. More new companies go under than old companies.''
 Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, said that even with insurance premium prices at a record high in Florida, they were still not high enough to offset all the potential damage that many weather analysts expect over the next decade or so.
 Mr. Buchmueller says his company will have considerably more capital than most Florida start-ups -- an estimated $45 million by the end of the year. And he says that he is confident that he has found a gap in the market where the going prices are higher than the actual risk. ''Everyone in Florida thinks they're paying too much for insurance,'' he said, ''and some of them are right.''
 Florida has been hit by a number of hurricanes in the last few years. Insurers have paid billions of dollars in claims, and the price of coverage for homes in the state is the highest in the nation. Some people are paying almost as much for insurance as for mortgage payments. And every week, 15,000 homeowners in Florida are requesting bare-bones coverage from the state-run insurance agency because no one else will sell it to them -- at any price. 
 In January, Florida's Legislature went into special session to deal with the insurance crisis and decided to force down prices for all companies, including Mr. Buchmueller's, by perhaps 20 percent. 
 But many insurance experts say that if hurricane damage is heavy in the next few years, the state will probably have to make up for the price cut and possibly a lot more in claims costs by issuing bonds and passing on potentially enormous expenses to all policyholders. 
 Florida regulators welcomed Mr. Buchmueller's company as a new source of coverage. They approved his plan in mid-January, and he has started selling policies through independent agents across the state. Mr. Buchmueller previously spent about 20 years working for the Chubb Corporation and the American International Group.
 Charles Kilvert, the owner of the Claude D. Reese insurance agency in Palm Beach, said the first question he hears is: ''Are these guys going to pay their claims?''
 ''I tell them, 'These guys are top-flight industry insiders,' '' he said. ''And they're very conservative. Whereas the state allows an insurance company to take in $10 of premium for every dollar it's got for paying claims, these guys are coming in at less than one to one.''
 One of Mr. Buchmueller's first customers, Ellis Kern, owns a two-story pale yellow Mediterranean-style home on a golf course several miles inland from West Palm Beach. Mr. Kern, a manufacturing executive, said he had been paying $15,175.86 a year for $1.2 million in coverage from a unit of Lloyd's of London. He is now paying $6,845 to Mr. Buchmueller's company for $1.7 million in coverage.
 ''Obviously,'' he said, ''the first thing was that there was a savings.'' 
 But Mr. Kern said he was also drawn to the company by its business plan. ''They were limiting their risk, being selective in who they were taking,'' he said.
 Patrick Lacy, a manager at the Plastridge Insurance Agency in Delray Beach, said he had been talking to a homeowner who had been paying $32,637 for $2.8 million in coverage. From the new company, Mr. Lacy said, the same coverage would cost $18,812.
 Customers of the new company are required to make an additional one-time payment equal to half their first-year premium into a fund for paying claims. Even then, costs are often lower than before. At the end of each year, Mr. Buchmueller said, any company money left over from claims and other expenses is to go into holding accounts for the policyholders, from which they can collect if they decide to drop their coverage. 
 In the meantime, putting money that would otherwise be termed profit into special accounts will add to the company's ability to pay claims and also provide tax benefits.
 The structure Mr. Buchmueller chose has been used by groups of professionals -- doctors, lawyers and architects -- and some industries, including pharmaceutical manufacturers, when coverage they need has become scarce and extremely high priced. One of the biggest, most successful insurance companies in the country, USAA, is organized along the same lines. But recent start-ups have been structured to yield high profits as quickly as possible.
 One quirk of Mr. Buchmueller's company is that his rates, as approved by regulators, are about the same or higher than those of other insurers catering to the rich, like Chubb. A big difference is that the others routinely refuse to sell new coverage. And the few companies willing to provide the coverage can charge much higher rates.
 ''It's like going to the butcher,'' Mr. Buchmueller said, ''and he tells you that rib-eye sells for $1 a pound. But you go to buy it, and you can't have it.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross J. Buchmueller at the office building in Plantation, Fla., that houses his insurance company, Privilege Underwriters Reciprocal Exchange. (Photo by Marc Serota for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); WEATHER (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); STARTUPS (86%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); STATISTICS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: Privilege Underwriters Reciprocal Exchange

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster; Ross J Buchmueller

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



122 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Subprime Lender Under Inquiry Puts Some Workers on Leave

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Fremont General Corporation, the financial services holding company, put some of its residential loan staff on paid leave yesterday ''pending further information'' and said that it would stop offering subprime mortgages. 
 Fremont General said in an e-mail statement that many workers had been sent home. Managers and operations people ''are continuing to work today and are making certain that our business data is secure and our customers are taken care of,'' the company said.
Fremont, whose operations in Santa Monica, Calif., include a federally insured banking unit, announced Friday that it would sell its subprime lending business after it had agreed to restrict its activities in that area. Another subprime lender, the New Century Financial Corporation, also announced Friday that it faced a criminal inquiry and might need waivers from its lenders to stay in business.
 ''The regulators did not seek any changes in the company's retail deposit-gathering business,'' said Fremont's statement, adding that the company would still offer commercial real estate loans.
 At offices in Anaheim, Calif., workers loaded their cars with boxes filled with the contents of their desks. Some were dressed in T-shirts and jeans, having been told about the layoffs on Friday.
 ''Great company to work for,'' said Sean Rones, 41, an account executive who was putting supplies, including a laminated Fremont loan rate sheet, into his sport utility vehicle. ''Good company, strong work ethic and they looked after their people. And we made good money. And it's a shame that the Feds are on a witch hunt against us.''
 Also yesterday, the Citadel Investment Group, a hedge fund, agreed to buy the ResMae Mortgage Corporation, which is in bankruptcy protection, for about $180 million, topping a bid from the Credit Suisse Group.
 Citadel offered about $20 million for ResMae's lending business and 98.5 cents on the dollar for the company's $160 million loan portfolio, said Ron Greenspan, a financial adviser for ResMae's creditors. 
 ResMae was the third lender specializing in loans to risky, or subprime, borrowers to seek bankruptcy protection since the end of December and is one of more than 20 that have shut down, scaled back or been sold since last year as default rates rise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); DATA SECURITY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Housing; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Mortgages; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Housing; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (94%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (83%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Fremont General Corp; New Century Financial; Citadel Investment Group; ResMae Mortgage Corp; Credit Suisse Group

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (83%); CS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



123 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Alaskan Bridge Projects Resist Earmarks Purge

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Long after Congress removed about $450 million in budget earmarks for two bridges in the Alaskan exurbs, the fight over whether to build them is not dead.
 Mocked as ''bridges to nowhere'' by critics who saw them as the epitome of Congressional excess, preparations for the projects have been slowly moving forward even as big questions remain over whether the bridges will be built.
When Congress removed the earmarks for the bridges in 2005, it still gave the state the money, but it allowed Alaskan officials to decide how to spend it. The state reserved about $200 million for the proposed bridges, far less than the construction costs but enough to show that there was serious intent to complete the projects. Some environmental and planning work has already been done. 
 Supporters of one of the bridges, the Knik Arm Crossing, are expected to get the proposal included in Anchorage's long-range city transportation plan in April. 
 The agency charged with building the bridge, a private-public partnership, is courting private investors for a toll-driven, for-profit venture. If built, the Knik bridge -- which has been discussed since before statehood in 1959 -- could cost about $1 billion beyond the approximately $110 million the project has received from Congress.
 ''If we can't sell this to Wall Street, then we're just going to pack up and go home,'' said Gordon Keith, director of the central region for the Alaska Department of Transportation and Public Facilities and a board member of the agency trying to build the Knik Arm Crossing.
 Five hundred miles away, on the remote, spruce-spiked island of Gravina in southeast Alaska, construction is set to begin this summer on three and a half miles of roads that are intended to connect the island's airport and its 50 residents to the other proposed bridge, a 200-foot-high arc over the Tongass Narrows to the city of Ketchikan. 
 That bridge could make the current route to the airport, a five-minute ferry ride, obsolete. For now, the road and causeway construction are continuing, at a cost of $26 million, even as the bridge budget has ballooned to nearly $400 million and its prospects remain uncertain. The money for the road construction was included in an earmark that was not cut.
 Representative Mark Steven Kirk, a Republican from Illinois who last year sponsored a measure to strip all federal financing for the bridges, said ''Whoa!'' when told of the money being spent on the Gravina road work. ''Our work to end taxpayer support for this isn't finished yet,'' Mr. Kirk said. His bill passed the House but was not adopted by the Senate.
 ''The jury has decided that this is not an appropriate use of federal funds,'' he said. ''In the end, I don't think there's a good way to spend the money in Alaska. In the long run, this is money that could go to other projects around the country, nearly all which would serve more than 50 people.''
 Regardless of the ridicule about the bridges as a pork-barrel binge, there are political facts that have kept hope alive for those who believe the projects are necessary for Alaska to grow economically.
 To direct the federal financing to other projects, for example, would require action by Gov. Sarah Palin, a Republican, and the State Legislature. It would also mean undoing the work of the powerful Congressional delegation, led by Senator Ted Stevens and Representative Don Young, both Republicans, who secured the money for the bridges.
 ''No way in the world am I going to put myself in that position,'' said Mayor Joe Williams of Ketchikan Gateway Borough. ''These guys were put through the wringer.'' 
 He added, referring to Mr. Young, ''I may talk about it 10 years after he's dead and gone, but no way in the world am I going to do that now. I'm supporting that man because he supported us. That would be like going to Dad and talking about something Dad asked us to do and we didn't do it. That's not a good idea.''
 Mr. Williams said he believed the state overestimated the cost of the Gravina bridge because it would rather build other projects, including some closer to Juneau, the capital. 
 Mal Menzies, director for the southeast region of the state transportation department, noted that Ms. Palin had not included more money for Gravina in her proposed budget and that state planners were simply dealing in reality. 
 ''I think the community is starting to see that the money for this project is not there,'' Mr. Menzies said. ''They could be open to smaller bridges, but the problem is we don't even have the monies for the smaller bridges yet.''
 In Anchorage, some express a similar view about the Knik Arm Crossing. 
 ''Originally it was a gift,'' said Jon R. Spring, a transportation planner with the Anchorage Traffic Department. ''It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity because we had these powerful congressmen. Well, that's no longer a rationale. Now it's a question of does it still make sense?''
 The project has plenty of critics who worry it will add congestion to downtown Anchorage and encourage sprawl around Point MacKenzie, the largely empty area across the water to which the bridge would lead. Opponents also worry that the efforts to secure private financing will fail and that supporters will seek more government help, potentially undercutting financing for projects like a downtown highway link.
 In Ketchikan, many people could not care less whether they get a new bridge. Yet the preliminary work planned for Gravina, part of an earlier earmark that was not removed, stirs hope for those who say they worry about the future in a region where people have been departing ever since the timber industry began to fade. In 2005, the borough population was 13,262, down from 14,070 in 2000.
 ''The bridge to nowhere is the bridge to the future for our kids,'' Mr. Williams said, ''because it is developable property and it is available to the borough for families to buy property and build their own home.''
 But even without a bridge right away, the new roads on the island could help lure a large manufacturer or a residential developer, he said. ''One day in the future,'' Mr. Williams said, ''we'll have to have a bridge, to accommodate those folks.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Don Young, above left, helped secure financing for two bridges in Alaska, one of which would span the Tongass Narrows, above. (Photo by Hall Anderson/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Al Grillo/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (74%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); FERRIES (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Bridges and Tunnels; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Bridges and Tunnels

PERSON: DON YOUNG (58%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (58%) William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Alaska

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



124 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: A Clear Line on Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Aid Workers With Guns,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, March 4): 
 A poor country may indeed need better security as well as food and medicine, but there needs to be a clear separation between government-to-government security assistance and people-to-people humanitarian aid.
They are not the same and are usually given with wholly different motives and objectives. 
 As an international relief worker with 27 years' experience, I have seen the immunity from violence of both relief workers and journalists disappear. 
 Such lack of immunity greatly impedes our work helping those in need as well as in reporting their stories to a wider world. 
 My experience tells me that this is directly linked to the precipitous fall in prestige of both news organizations and humanitarian aid agencies, which are increasingly viewed by indigenous people as nothing more than shills for ill-fitting Western values and the military and economic policies of foreign governments.Richard M. WaldenPresident and Chief ExecutiveOperation U.S.A.Culver City, Calif., March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: Operation USA (Orgn)

PERSON: Richard M Walden; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



125 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; BANGKOK JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Breathing Easier as the Battle for Blue Skies Pays Off

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Patcharin Areewong and Warangkana Tempati contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Black smoke billowing from tailpipes into the humid, tropical air was once a Bangkok trademark. But a decade and a half after Thailand began a battle for better air quality, this erstwhile icon of smog has emerged as a role model for pollution-choked capitals in Asia, with considerably cleaner air than Beijing, Jakarta, New Delhi and Shanghai. 
 Some buses here still belch toxic vapor. Yet the skies in Bangkok on most days are blue, thanks to the work of a small, dedicated group of people. They have pressed the case for cleaner air despite a history of weak, short-lived governments and the country's current efforts to extricate itself from the tangled results of the military coup last September. 
 ''There's a huge difference when you walk around the streets,'' said Jitendra Shah, a coordinator at the World Bank for environment and social issues in Southeast Asia who has worked in Bangkok since the 1990s. ''Breathing is definitely easier.'' 
 Thailand's battle against air pollution provides a virtual how-to manual of environmental cleanup, say Mr. Shah and other air quality experts in Asia. Thai officials cajoled oil companies to produce cleaner fuel, used higher taxes to phase out the once ubiquitous two-stroke motorcycles and converted taxis to run on clean-burning liquefied petroleum gas. They overcame lobbying campaigns from large, mostly Japanese-owned, car companies and imposed progressively stricter emissions controls based on European norms. Thailand had no emissions standards before 1992. 
 The local government enacted simple but highly effective measures like washing the streets to keep the dust down. Buddhist crematoriums around the city were urged to change from wood-burning pyres to more sophisticated electric incinerators. 
 One striking result is that, while the number of motor vehicles registered in Bangkok has increased 40 percent over the past decade, the average levels of the most dangerous types of pollution -- small dust particles that become embedded in the lungs -- have been cut 47 percent, to 43 micrograms per cubic meter from 83.
 Bangkok's air, on average, now falls within the limit set by the United States Environmental Protection Agency of 50 micrograms per cubic meter, but is above the European Union limit of 40. The World Health Organization guidelines are 20 micrograms per cubic meter. 
 Four decades ago, Thailand did not have a word for pollution -- there was barely use for it in a city with far fewer cars than there are now. It was only in 1976 that the Royal Institute, the official arbiter of the Thai language, coined the word ''mollapit.'' It means ''poison or toxins that come from impurity or dirtiness,'' according to Naiyana Wara-aswapati, a senior linguist at the institute. 
 Giving pollution a name was far easier than cleaning the air. And as pedestrians in Bangkok can attest, some of the poison still lingers. The city still has nagging air quality problems, especially and paradoxically in neighborhoods served by the city's relatively new mass transit system, which was supposed to help ease pollution by allowing commuters to leave their cars at home. 
 Pollutants, trapped beneath the concrete platforms of the elevated railway, can rise to levels that rival those of the dirtiest cities in Asia: 85 to 180 micrograms per cubic meter of dust particles. 
 Greater Bangkok, with a population of about 10 million, has not yet achieved the air quality of Singapore or Tokyo. Those cities have on average the cleanest air of any major Asian capital, roughly equivalent to that of New York City. But what Bangkok has shown is that it is not necessary to have Singapore's authoritarian legacy or Tokyo's riches to make radical improvements. 
 Part of Bangkok's success in cleaning its air is a result of luck and geography. Unlike Los Angeles, Bangkok has no surrounding mountains to trap smog. Unlike Beijing, which has some of the worst air in East Asia, power plants around Bangkok do not use coal. Thailand gets natural gas from neighboring Myanmar and its own platforms in the Gulf of Thailand; 70 percent of the country's power production is from natural gas, which burns more cleanly than coal. 
 Most of the credit for the cleaner air, however, goes to a group of strong-willed environmental pioneers, said Nuntavarn Vichit-Vadakan, dean of the faculty of public health at Thammasat University. The group, many of them trained in the United States, convinced politicians of the need for action, Mr. Nuntavarn said. 
 They faced considerable resistance. Supat Wangwongwatana, director general of the pollution control department at the Ministry of Environment, helped usher in Thailand's first laws on tailpipe emissions, based mainly on European standards. In the early 1990s, he traveled to Japan with Kasem Sanitwong Na Ayutthaya, the current environment minister, to persuade Japanese automakers to make and sell cleaner cars in Thailand. 
 Bhichit Rattakul, an American-trained microbiologist, created the Anti-Air Pollution & Environmental Protection Foundation, a nonprofit advocacy group, in 1986, before going green was trendy. Elected Bangkok's governor in 1996, he planted 400,000 trees, cracked down on polluting trucks and established stricter rules for dusty construction sites. 
 In 1991, Piyasvasti Amranand, a former secretary general of the National Energy Policy Office, established Thailand's first comprehensive plan to remove lead, sulfur and other harmful chemicals from fuel. Mr. Piyasvasti, who is now energy minister, said he encountered strong resistance from Western oil companies and Japanese car manufacturers; he recalled long debates over the proposed introduction of catalytic converters, the devices that neutralize harmful chemicals before they are emitted from tailpipes. 
 On the streets of Bangkok, residents give the city's fight against pollution mixed reviews. 
 Pacharapun Tinnabal, 25, a graduate student who recently returned after living for three years in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, said she was relieved to return home because the air there was ''far more polluted.'' 
 But others, like Thongpoon Nawiman, a 41-year-old motorcycle messenger who spends five days a week wending through Bangkok's wide boulevards and tiny alleys, are not satisfied. ''The air is still polluted, and the traffic is still bad,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bhichit, the former Bangkok governor, agrees that there is a lot of room for improvement. 
 ''I'm still not a happy man,'' he said. ''I'm trying to demand more.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Bangkok Journal article on March 6 about Bangkok's successful effort to cut air pollution misidentified the gender of the public health faculty dean at Thammasat University there, who said a group of strong-willed environmental pioneers was largely responsible. The dean, Nuntavarn Vichit-Vadakan, is a woman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bangkok residents take yoga classes in Lumpini Park. Part of the city's success in cleaning its air is a result of luck and geography: no surrounding mountains to trap smog, and power plants that do not use coal. (Photo by Josef Polleross for the International Herald Tribune)
 There are still nagging air quality problems, but nothing like in the ones in 1999, when the traffic police wore masks to cope with pollution. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY (90%); FIRES (90%); SMOG (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LOBBYING (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COUPS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (66%); CREMATION (65%); RELIGION (65%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); ARMED FORCES (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) Air Pollution; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Thomas Fuller; Jitendra Shah

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (99%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) THAILAND (99%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (93%); INDONESIA (91%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) Bangkok (Thailand); Thailand; Beijing (China); Jakarta (Indonesia); New Delhi (India); Shanghai (China)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



126 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Asian and European Stocks Continue Decline

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and WAYNE ARNOLD; Heather Timmons reported from New Delhi and Wayne Arnold from Singapore. Jeremy W. Peters in New York, Tim Johnston in Sydney, Carlos H. Conde in Manila, and Julia Werdigier in London contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI, Mar. 5 -- Asian stock markets continued to fall today as nervous investors shunned the region despite strong economic signals from some Asian countries. The trend spread to Europe, where stocks also slid in morning trading. But on Wall Street the damage was limited, and share prices climbed after a brief fall in early trading.
 Nearly every significant stock market index in Asia ended the day lower, and drops were severe in many markets. Japan's Topix and benchmark Nikkei 225 indices fell 3.4 and 3.3 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index dropped 4 percent. Indian stocks traded at one stage at their lowest level in five months. The Bombay stock exchange's Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 471.09 points, or 3.7 percent, to 12,415.04. The Vietnamese market was almost alone in posting an advance.
Stocks in Europe continued to decline today because of concerns that last week's drop, which wiped out $2.3 trillion from global markets,could steer investors away from equities. In London, the benchmark FTSE index fell 1.45 percent to 6027.4 around midday. 
 In the United States, trading on the New York Stock Exchange began the day with a drop. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 60 points during the first minutes of trading. By midday, however, the market had more than recovered, with the Dow up 12 points to 12,120.26. The broader Standard and Poor's 500 stock index also had edged up slightly, as did the Nasdaq composite. 
 Analysts in Europe said that the sell-off of assets considered risky was likely to continue for some days. But they said that the decline was probably not a sign of a new recession and that it was unlikely to set one off. 
 One fund manager noted that there is still enough liquidity in the market and companies are still reporting higher profits, so the stock slump is not likely to be more than a market correction. 
 ''This is the way that corrections work,'' said Garry Evans, a strategist with HSBC in Hong Kong. 
 The markets are ''spooked,'' he said. ''A week ago, everyone was very excited about the markets and now no one wants to buy stocks,'' he added. 
 Some were a bit less sanguine: ''There is a genuine fear that the correction will be more than 10 percent globally for the developed markets,'' said Michael Hughes, chief investment officer at Baring Asset Management in London. ''We had such a good run that there is a sense that money has been made too easily.'' 
 The pan-Asian and European declines extended a downward trend that began last Tuesday when the Shanghai stock market dropped nearly 9 percent. Investors in Europe said they are closely watching the American bond markets and the performance of safer stocks, such as banks and healthcare, for any signs that the recent market jitters worsen.
 Many economists and strategists predicted that volatility could increase sharply in Asian markets for weeks to come, as investors pull back from speculative investments and redirect assets to more mature markets, and as other investors look for buying opportunities. 
 This flight from risky assets has become particularly evident in currency markets. The Japanese yen has been rising even as other Asian currencies decline because many investors are unwinding some of their transactions, called ''carry trades.'' 
 In this trading strategy, hedge funds and other investors have been borrowing yen at low interest rates and then converting into other currencies to buy stocks in markets with higher returns, such as Australia, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. But they are now reversing many of these trades. 
 The retreat of investors from carry trades is now exacerbating the speed of regional declines, analysts said.
 The more the yen rises, the more expensive it becomes for carry traders to pay off their Japanese debt, and the faster they try to sell their holdings, the more they feed a vicious cycle of selling as they unwind their positions. 
 Banking stocks have suffered as profit at financial institutions took a hit on the back of bad loans especially in the American mortgage market. But bonds have still performed well. ''If bond markets stop performing well then it is more difficult for equity markets to recover,'' said Mr. Hughes.
 On Monday, the yen rose to a three-month high of 115.37 to the U.S. dollar. 
 Lucy MacDonald, chief investment officer of global equities at RCM in London, said: ''There is a lot of volume behind the sale now, but we still see it as a correction, and it's possible that we will see another two weeks of this, wiping as much off the markets as it has already last week. We still believe that there is quite a lot of value in equities as an asset class.''
 Economists around Asia continue to maintain that the outlook for the region's economies remains sound despite the market sell-off. Many are comparing it to the sharp sell-off in emerging markets last May, a fall that had been mostly reversed by October. 
 Some countries today published positive economic data, including strong capital expenditure figures in Japan, and positive news about pension funds in Taiwan. Strategists said psychological factors were driving investors rather than any hard news. 
 This panicked trading, however, is taking place as the outlook grows slightly more uncertain in the United States. Many economists are predicting slowing growth and higher interest rates, which could put pressure on the cooling housing market, particularly sub-prime borrowers and their lenders. 
 That scenario is likely to make it harder for investors in Asia to interpret the latest turmoil in the markets, and this could suggest even more bumps ahead. The recent drops are coming after spectacular rises in some stocks and rapid growth in local economies.
 Fears of overheating have been especially pronounced in India, where a growth rate of more than 8 percent has been accompanied by rising prices for some consumer goods, and equities are among the most expensive in Asia.
 India's central bank recently acted to temper inflation, and those moves could act as a drag on markets. 
 ''The central bank has been attempting to reduce inflation by an interest rate hike and liquidity constraints,'' said Dr. Subir Gokarn, chief economist with CRISIL, a credit rating agency in Mumbai. 
 ''The effect of monetary compression will start to show up in the coming year, and we expect growth to decline slightly,'' he said. 
 So far, though, no one is predicting a bear market. 
 Even after the latest stock market declines, economists said there was still a surfeit of assets in global financial markets created by strong Asian growth, high Asian savings and historically low global interest rates. 
 That bulge of capital, which some refer to as a liquidity bubble, is likely to provide support for emerging markets once the uncertainty dies down. 
 ''There's still a lot money available that's going to be able to chase assets,'' said Amy Auster, a regional economist at ANZ Bank in Melbourne.
 The decline in Asian stock markets that started last week is the third such correction in three years, Mr. Evans, of HSBC, said. 
 Some investors who missed the last rebound may rush back into the market this time, he predicts. ''Some clients are already asking us if there are some stocks that are buyers,'' he said.
 Even if the U.S. does slow, Mr. Auster and some other economists argue, Asian economies are less susceptible than they were in the past. 
 While exports to countries outside the region still play a crucial role in economic growth, the growth of China and India has sent trade within just the region skyrocketing. Together with Japan's recovery and the revival in the economies of the European Union, a slowdown in the U.S. may have a minor impact in Asia, they say.
 That knowledge didn't stem the bleeding on Monday, though. 
 Sydney's ASX All Ordinaries index dropped 2.3 percent to 5642, and analysts believe it could have further to fall. 
 ''Our market was looking a little bit expensive when it hit 6044 early last week. Even ignoring what has been happening in Asia and the U.S., it was due to come off a bit,'' said Martin Duncan, chief equity strategist at JP Morgan in Australia.
 Mr. Duncan said that the bank's calculations last week valued the market at 5560, indicating that it could continue to drop. He said that he couldn't rule out the market continuing to fall even beyond that point if the bearish sentiments in New York and Tokyo persisted.
 Philippine stocks tumbled on Monday, dropping by almost 5 percent, as the market continued a consolidation that analysts said demonstrated the volatility of domestic equities. 
 The Philippine Stock Exchange composite index fell 4.54 percent, or 142.46 points, to 2,997.88 points. It dropped to a low of 2,972.97 points during the day, which was worse than the index's lowest closing level of 2,982.54 points last year. 
 ''The market's consolidation, I think, is overdone,'' said Joseph Roxas, president of Eagle Equities Inc. ''It shows the market is very volatile considering that we are not heavily traded compared to other equities in the region,'' he told the Xinhua Financial News Service. 
 Heavy losers included Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Ayala Corporation. 
 Last week, the 30-company index dropped by nearly 8 percent, the worst performer in Southeast Asia after the decline in China. 
 Some market experts blamed the most predictable market scapegoat: hedge funds. 
 Analysts in Malaysia, for example, see hedge funds behind that market's sharp declines over the past week. ''That's the primary reason,'' said Kaladher Govindan, head of research at TA Securities in Kuala Lumpur, of the hedge funds. ''We believe the bull cycle is still intact and we believe this correction should be taken as a buying opportunity.''
 The benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index fell by more than 5 percent today. 
 It has now fallen by nearly 14 percent since Feb. 23, when it touched its highest point in more than five years.
 Overseas retail investors have also been investing in Asian stocks and strategists worry that the recent volatility could mean they will retreat from Asian equity markets. 
 ''One worry is that people panic a bit and pull their money back home, to the United States or Europe, and then don't put it back quickly,'' said Mr. Evans of HSBC.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A display outside a securities firm in Tokyo showed the losses incurred by Japanese stocks today. (Photo by Toshiyuki Aizawa/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TRENDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BARING ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) EUROPE (96%); ASIA (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007



127 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: An Anguished Eyewitness To the World's Unraveling

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
What exactly does a hypnotized chicken have to do with Osama bin Laden? A more freakish juxtaposition of images you could hardly invent. But in ''My Trip to Al-Qaeda,'' his engaging theatrical seminar on the rise of Islamic terrorism, Lawrence Wright draws a connection between the fanciful symbol and the frightful man with persuasive simplicity. 
 Mr. Wright, a staff writer for The New Yorker magazine, is an acknowledged expert on Al Qaeda. ''The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11,'' his compelling, deeply researched history of the development of Islamic fundamentalism, was a National Book Award finalist. So when Mr. Wright talks about Al Qaeda, as he will be doing at the Culture Project for the next few weeks, you're inclined to pay heed. 
The 75-minute show's personalized title, incongruously recalling a precis of a third grader's summer vacation, indicates that Mr. Wright is not giving an oral report on his own book. Although it has been directed with minimal fuss by Gregory Mosher, ''My Trip to Al-Qaeda'' does not resemble an audiotape performed live. Mr. Wright traces in the background of Mr. bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri (''the man behind bin Laden''), the central figures in the unseen saga that culminated in the horrific events of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 The Islamist movement's roots in Egypt and Saudi Arabia, and the galvanizing influence of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, are all touched upon concisely. But Mr. Wright sets aside the historian's objectivity for much of the evening to give us a personal journal of his experience in researching the book. More than a linear narrative about the formation of Al Qaeda, the show is an informal scrapbook of Middle Eastern politics and culture seen through a Westerner's sharp, informed and sometimes sorrowful eyes, complete with visual aids in the form of slides and video clips. 
 Mr. Wright is not what you'd call a born performer. Handsome and personable, dressed informally and regularly consulting a binder of notes, he has the air of a visiting professor not yet at ease in front of the classroom. He speaks softly, in a mostly uninflected voice brushed with a Texas twang.
 When re-enacting a few of his more impassioned exchanges with sources -- who included acknowledged terrorists -- Mr. Wright occasionally raises his vocal temperature to add a little dramatic heat to the evening. The results are more awkward than convincing. But it hardly matters. His subject is so absorbing that presentation is almost incidental.
 For Mr. Wright the events of 9/11 hit home in an odd, personal way. He was a screenwriter for the 1998 movie ''The Siege,'' which imagined the fallout from an act of Islamic terrorism in the United States. As the grisly images played across the television screen on that unforgettable morning, Mr. Wright was not thinking, as many dazed Americans were, ''It's like a movie.'' He was thinking, ''It's like my movie.'' 
 Inspired to uncover the factual narrative behind the events that had so ghoulishly echoed his fictional one, he began research on the book almost immediately. 
 His journey led him to Egypt, where Mr. Zawahiri rose to prominence during the turbulent years of rebellion against the government, and to Saudi Arabia, where Mr. bin Laden became a hero for his support of the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion. In describing his encounters with sources from a wide range of political viewpoints Mr. Wright draws a dispiriting portrait of the ingrained pathologies of both Egyptian and Saudi societies, illuminating the cultural and economic factors that make them a continually rich source for strongly fermented hatreds. 
 That hypnotized chicken is Mr. Wright's bizarre metaphor for Saudi Arabia itself. When he was a kid in Oklahoma, a cousin entertained him by getting dizzied chickens to stand like statues. ''Sometimes the existence in the modern world of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia reminds me of that hypnotized chicken,'' he says with a wry smile. ''It's unlikely, it's improbable, it's unnatural -- but there it is.''
 He is referring to the economic polarities and the extreme repression. The latter is illustrated wrenchingly in anecdotes about a tragic fire at a girls' school (the students were not properly dressed, so they were allowed to burn alive) and how he watched helplessly as a woman reckless enough to expose her face in public was chased down the street by a member of the religious police. (Mr. Wright adds the macabre detail that many of these enforcers of Islam's strict moral codes are ex-convicts who memorized the Koran in prison.)
 Despite the lack of economic options for its people and a government that steals a hefty percentage of the national income from oil, rebellion has never come to call. Why? Fear of the alternative, Mr. Wright suggests. ''Change does not equal progress in the Middle East,'' he says. 
 Encounters with frustrated young Saudis raise the disturbing notion that the Saudi rulers quietly support the jihad as a convenient way to occupy -- and destroy -- generations of dissatisfied young men itching for something to do. Recounting a conversation with a group of Bedouins, some of whom have been tempted to fight in Iraq, he says, ''They all agree there is a plot on the part of the clergy and their government to eliminate them, the unhappy, unemployed Saudi young men.'' 
 Mr. Wright makes no pretense of objectivity about the American reaction to the events of 9/11. He has immediate experience, to begin with, of the new rules on wiretapping: the F.B.I. showed up at his house while he was working on the book to inquire about a few suspicious calls to London. 
 ''My Trip to Al-Qaeda'' concludes with the mournful observation that the reaction to 9/11 in the United States has transformed the country in ways that have degraded the ideals it was founded to enshrine. Mr. Wright quotes an enraged Syrian filmmaker who cries, ''When I look at you now, I see us!'' 
 ''My Trip to Al-Qaeda'' occasionally slips into repetitive generalities, and Mr. Wright can strike a stilted or stale note when he turns polemical. But the firsthand testimony he brings of the misery that is an endless resource for Al Qaeda will be hard to shake from the memory.
 ''Perhaps Al Qaeda can best be understood as an engine that runs on the despair of the Muslim world, especially its young men, whose lives are so futile and unexpressed,'' he observes in one of the evening's more trenchant -- and chilling -- passages. ''Al Qaeda offers them a chance to make history. All they have to do is die.''My Trip to Al-QaedaBy Lawrence Wright, based on his book ''The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11''; directed by Gregory Mosher; production design by Garin Marschall; production stage manager, Geoffrey Lake; coordinating producer, Julianne Hoffenberg. Presented by the Culture Project, Allan Buchman, artistic director. At the Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo; (212) 352-3101. Through April 14. Running time: 1 hour, 15 minutes. WITH: Lawrence Wright (himself).

GRAPHIC: Photo: My Trip to Al-Qaeda -- Lawrence Wright, a staff writer for The New Yorker, in his play at the Culture Project. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FILM (77%); WRITERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); THEATER (57%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) Charles Isherwood; Lawrence Wright; Gregory Mosher

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (57%) MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (69%); UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



128 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: BUSH TO SET OUT SHIFT IN AGENDA FOR LATIN REGION

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER; Thom Shanker and Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 5 

 BODY:
President Bush arrives here on Thursday with an energy partnership plan to create jobs and decrease poverty and inequality, a marked shift in Washington's priorities for Latin America aimed at countering the challenge posed by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 Since 1990, when Mr. Bush's father was in the White House, United States policy toward the region has focused on free-trade agreements and related economic measures, with a secondary emphasis on drug interdiction.
 But the growing leftward and anti-American trend in regional politics, led by Mr. Chavez -- who plans a countertour to coincide with Mr. Bush's trip -- has led to a modified agenda and a renewed effort to rebut complaints by Latin Americans that the president has ignored their concerns in favor of the campaign against terrorism. 
 ''When something isn't working after 15 years, that's a sign there are insurmountable obstacles and it's time to change direction,'' said Rubens Ricupero, a Brazilian diplomat and former secretary general of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in an interview here. ''This is a very intelligent initiative on the part of the U.S., because there's no point in tying the whole relationship to something that has only produced frustration and stagnation.'' 
 The Bush administration has also signaled a new willingness to consider including workers' rights guarantees in trade accords. [Page C1.] 
 Mr. Bush's trip will be his longest to the region. But his promises of American support and assistance are likely to fall short of what Mr. Chavez, with his oil wealth, has been delivering recently.
 On Monday, in a speech in Washington to the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Bush said ties between the United States and Latin America had helped advance peace and prosperity in the Western Hemisphere. But he also appeared to acknowledge the need to reach out more to America's southern neighbors. ''The fact is that tens of millions of our brothers and sisters to the south have seen little improvement in their daily lives,'' Mr. Bush said, ''and this has led some to question the value of democracy.''
 Mr. Bush's first stop will be here in Brazil's industrial capital. He and the president of Brazil, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, are expected to sign a memorandum of understanding for a recently negotiated program that calls for the countries to promote the production and use of ethanol, a renewable fuel that Brazil manufactures from sugar cane. Mr. da Silva, a former labor leader who controls the leftist Workers Party, is also scheduled to visit Mr. Bush at Camp David at the end of the month.
 But the convergence of strategic interests of the Western Hemisphere's two most populous countries clearly goes beyond energy. Brazil fancies itself, not Venezuela, as South America's natural leader. It has also recently shown signs of alarm at Mr. Chavez's substantial arms purchases and irritation with his involvement in neighboring Bolivia, including providing military assistance and support for the nationalization of Brazilian-held energy assets there. 
 ''I don't think Brazil will accept the idea of being any type of American surrogate in the region, or to moderate or contain Chavez,'' said Felipe Lampreia, Brazil's foreign minister from 1995 to 2001. ''But the United States wants to bolster Lula as a counterweight, to show that you can have a leftist government with a strong focus on social issues, income distribution and poverty reduction, without being radical.''
 Mr. Bush will be sending much the same message at his second stop, Uruguay, which signed a trade and investment framework agreement with the United States in January. There, he and President Tabare Vazquez, a physician who leads a leftist coalition called the Broad Front, plan to meet at the presidential ranch to commemorate Uruguay's emergence, with American help, from a fiscal crisis in 2002 and to discuss how to expand commercial ties.
 Dr. Vazquez's government includes former Tupamaro guerrillas; the guerrilla group kidnapped and killed an American official in Montevideo in 1970. But Dr. Vazquez, like Mr. da Silva, has migrated toward the center and largely abandoned the kind of fiery rhetoric that is Mr. Chavez's specialty.
 ''One must be pragmatic,'' Dr. Vazquez said in an interview last year. ''Uruguayans want jobs that provide dignity, an adequate salary, and security. To have that, you must have economic growth, which is achieved only through production and investment.''
 Mr. Bush's itinerary also includes stops in Colombia and Guatemala, two countries where political scandals have recently erupted, weakening the pro-American governments there. He will end his trip next week in Mexico, where the agenda is sure to include immigration, a constant source of tension in relations between the two neighbors.
 As a candidate in 2000, Mr. Bush vowed that ''should I become president, I will look south, not as an afterthought but as a fundamental commitment.'' But after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the United States quickly relegated Latin America to the ancillary role it played during most of the cold war, creating openings that Mr. Chavez, China and even, more recently, Iran have moved to exploit.
 Now, however, ''there is a sense that things are not going well for the U.S. in the region,'' said Peter Hakim, president of Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based policy research and advocacy group. ''There has probably never been so much anti-Americanism and so little confidence in U.S. leadership since the cold war.''
 That trend has been aggravated, he said, by the emergence of ''such a vehement and reasonably effective adversary'' in the form of Mr. Chavez.
 An overwhelming majority of government officials and academic analysts in Latin America take it as a given that the United States has been jolted into action by the inroads Mr. Chavez has made. But American officials dispute that notion.
 ''We are aware of the shortcomings of the Venezuelan government and the kind of unhelpful role it has played in certain countries in the region,'' Deputy Secretary of State John D. Negroponte said in a recent interview. ''I think the president's intent is to accent the positive, and talk about the positive, things we want to get done in the relationships with the countries that he is visiting rather than to call undue attention to this issue, which is Venezuela.''
 And when asked at a press briefing Monday if Mr. Bush's trip was ''an anti-Chavez tour,'' Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, said, ''It's really not.''
 But Mr. Chavez is acting as if the trip, which he mocks as doomed to failure, is aimed solely at combating his influence, and has responded with a maneuver of his own. While Mr. Bush is in Uruguay on Friday and Saturday, Mr. Chavez plans to be leading anti-Bush demonstrations just across the River Plate in Buenos Aires, Argentina, where he has cultivated an increasingly friendly relationship with that country's Peronist president, Nestor Kirchner.
 There, as elsewhere in the hemisphere, Mr. Chavez has used Venezuela's oil riches to win friends and influence. He has bought more than $1.5 billion in Argentine bonds, flown poor slum residents to receive medical care abroad and proposed a new regional development bank to make low-interest loans.
 In contrast, American assistance for the region has lagged far behind. Mr. Hadley said that the United States has nearly doubled aid to the region since President Bush tookoffice to $1.6 billion annually, although he acknowledged that figure was slated to drop next fiscal year. But recent research by the Washington Office on Latin America, a group that is often critical of American policy in the region, found that the largest portion of money has gone to Colombia for military and counterdrug assistance, that Congress has consistently trimmed aid requests, and that not all funds authorized have been disbursed.
 On Monday, Mr. Bush announced several relatively small new initiatives that he would ask Congress to finance. They included $75 million for a new education program promoting study in the United States, $385 million for programs promoting home ownership for low income families, and the development of a health care training facility in Panama to serve all of Central America. 
 ''In the short term, Chavez has more to offer because our aid is peanuts,'' said Riordan Roett, director of the Latin American studies program at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington. ''We're talking hundreds of thousands of dollars, and he's tossing around a billion here and a billion there.'' 
 Mr. Bush's shift away from an almost exclusive focus on free trade, with its calls for austerity and sacrifice in return for access to the American market, also reflects domestic political realities. His trade promotion authority expires in July, and there are doubts about Congress's willingness to approve free trade agreements that have been signed with Colombia, Peru and Panama.
 ''It would not be realistic to expect much'' from Mr. Bush's visit, said Mr. Lampreia, the former Brazilian foreign minister. ''But there is a fresh look at Latin America, very much derived from the fact Chavez is there, and a new approach that is positive, which is a good thing.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, in Washington yesterday, spoke of ''our brothers and sisters to the south'' who have ''seen little improvement in their daily lives.'' (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)(pg. A6)Map of South America highlighting Sao Paulo, Brazil: President Bush will begin his Latin American tour in Sao Paulo. (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TRENDS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); ALCOHOLS (65%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (64%); BIOFUELS (62%); ETHANOL (60%); TERRORISM (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (93%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



129 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: New York Officials Urge Renewal Of Federal Terrorism Insurance

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
New York officials urged Congress yesterday to renew a terrorism insurance program set to expire at the end of this year that they said allowed the city's economy to recover and grow in the years after the Sept. 11 terror attack. 
 The program, created by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act in 2002 and extended in 2005, was devised when insurers began excluding terrorism from their property policies after Sept. 11, 2001. Under its terms, the federal government would pay most of the cost of losses from a foreign terror attack, up to a total of $100 billion a year. In seeking its renewal, the officials told the House Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises at a hearing in Manhattan that without it, the city's robust development engine could sputter to a halt.
Senator Charles E. Schumer told the panel gathered at City Hall that the cycle of pending expiration and renewal had created a damaging ''fear pattern'' among insurers, and he argued that the program should be made permanent or at least cover the next 15 years. 
 ''The closer we get to the expiration, the fewer projects are planned,'' said Mr. Schumer, Democrat of New York. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg also spoke in support of continuing the program, saying it was crucial to the city's overall economic health. 
 ''Without a doubt, the federal government's terrorism insurance program has been a critical part of New York City's revival and is giving businesses the confidence to move forward with exciting new projects,'' he said. ''But without terrorism risk insurance, none of them would ever get off the ground.''
 The officials also urged lawmakers to extend the program to cover domestic terrorism and to take into account the possibility of nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological attacks.
 Critics have argued that the act was an unneeded gift to the insurance industry and has weakened the marketplace by encouraging insurers to depend on it.
 But Eric R. Dinallo, acting superintendent of the State Insurance Department, said that the program helped correct a market dynamic in which insurers would avoid offering coverage, or offer it only at astronomical prices to cover all possible outcomes of unpredictable acts.
 Referring to the federal program, Mr. Dinallo said it ''doesn't replace the private sector'' but ''makes private-sector involvement possible.''
 United States Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat who represents parts of Manhattan and Queens and who had requested the hearing in New York, echoed that sentiment. She called the act ''an essential tool for providing economic security following a terrorist attack, not a bailout of the insurance industry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (93%); TERRORISM (93%); INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); HIJACKING (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); MAYORS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%) Terrorism; Insurance; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Finances; World Trade Center (NYC); Law and Legislation; Terrorism

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (74%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); CAROLYN MALONEY (59%) Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



130 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: The Right to Organize

 BODY:
There are many reasons for the long decline in the membership rolls for private sector unions, including powerful changes in the economy and the unions' past corruption scandals. And there is little doubt that federal rules and regulations for union organizing have also become increasingly hostile to labor, helping to drive unions' share of the work force down from a peak of 35 percent in the 1950s to a mere 7.4 percent today. 
 The House of Representatives passed a bill last week that would strengthen the rights of employees to form unions, and it drew an immediate veto threat from President Bush. But if Mr. Bush were, as he claims, truly concerned about rising income inequality and truly committed to improving the lives of America's middle class, he would support the legislation and urge the Senate to approve it.
The most significant change in the bill is known as a majority signup, which would allow employees at a company to unionize if a majority signed cards expressing their desire to do so. Under current law, an employer can reject the majority's signatures and insist on a secret ballot. But in a disturbingly high number of cases, the employer uses the time before the vote to pressure employees to rethink their decision to unionize.
 The bill would also increase the penalty for employers who fired or otherwise discriminated illegally against pro-union employees. An employer currently found guilty of an illegal firing must pay back pay, minus whatever the fired employee might have earned at a new job -- a fine so low as to be meaningless. And the bill would require binding arbitration if a newly formed union and company management were unable to agree on a first contract after 120 days. The refusal to bargain is among the most common allegations against employers in filings to the National Labor Relations Board. 
 Some employers, like Cingular Wireless and the health care provider Kaiser Permanente, have voluntarily embraced the practice of the majority signup. But many others, represented by interest groups like the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, remain rigidly opposed.
 The bill's opponents charge that replacing secret ballots with the majority signup would be undemocratic. But the current system is by no means fair. The law prohibits union advocacy by employees during work hours and allows employers to ban organizers from the work place. But employers can require workers to attend anti-union presentations, and can discipline or fire those who refuse to attend. 
 In 2005, according to the most recent annual report of the National Labor Relations Board, 31,358 employees were receiving back pay after being discriminated against for their union-related activities. In research for a bipartisan Congressional commission in 2000, Kate Bronfenbrenner, a labor relations professor at Cornell University, reported that 25 percent of employers illegally fired at least one employee during organizing campaigns.
 Labor unions have a role to play in helping to fix today's economic ills -- most notably, worsening income inequality, a problem that's caused in part by unions' decline and the workers' resulting lack of bargaining power. What's needed is a Congressional drive to help Mr. Bush see this obvious connection. The Senate should take up the House bill promptly and send it to the president for his signature.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); SCANDALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (87%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); BACK PAY (75%); APPROVALS (75%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); HEALTH CARE (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Labor; Editorials; Organized Labor; Law and Legislation; Vetoes (US); Discrimination; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (81%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (81%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



131 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Car Bomb Kills 20 on Booksellers' Row

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and WISSAM A. HABEEB; Ahmad Fadam contributed reporting from Baghdad, and employees of The New York Times from Kirkuk and Baquba.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, March 5 

 BODY:
The book market along Mutanabi Street was a throwback to the Baghdad of old, the days of students browsing for texts, turbaned clerics hunting down religious tomes and cafe intellectuals debating politics over backgammon.
 Somehow it survived the war, until Monday, when a powerful suicide car bomb hit the market, slicing through the heart of the capital's intellectual scene. It killed at least 20 people and wounded more than 65.
In the hours after the noontime explosion, books and stationery, some tied in charred bundles, littered the block. Plumes of black smoke billowed above ornate buildings dating to the Ottoman Empire. The storied Shahbandar cafe, where elderly writers puffed away the afternoon on water pipes, lay in ruins. 
 Firefighters unleashed powerful sprays of water, only to have flames reignite because the paper had been transformed into kindling.
 This part of Baghdad dates back centuries, to the era when the Abbasid caliphate ruled over the Islamic world. On Monday, victims lacerated by shrapnel were carried over shards of glass to waiting ambulances.
 ''There are no Americans or Iraqi politicians here -- there are only Iraqi intellectuals who represent themselves and their homeland, plus stationery and book dealers,'' said Abdul Baqi Faidhullah, 61, a poet who frequently visits the street. ''Those who did this are like savage machines intent on harvesting souls and killing all bright minds.''
 The bombing was the latest of a half-dozen major blasts aimed at civilians in the capital in the three weeks since the Iraqi government and American military announced the start of a new Baghdad security drive. The number of gunshot killings attributed to sectarian death squads appears to have dropped as militia leaders have ordered their followers to lie low. But deadly bombings have continued with ferocity. 
 American officials have said they are still struggling to tamp down the bombings and intend to bring thousands of additional troops into Baghdad in the next two months.
 Many of the major bombings have taken place in central Baghdad, where Iraqi Army and police checkpoints have proliferated since Feb. 14, the start of the security drive, or in neighborhoods patrolled by Americans. 
 A bombing on Feb. 25 at a campus of Mustansiriya University, near Mutanabi Street in central Baghdad, killed at least 40 people, many of them students of business or economics. On Feb. 18, just two days after Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki called the opening stage of the security drive a ''dazzling success,'' two bombs ripped through a market in the New Baghdad neighborhood, where American soldiers had been on patrol just minutes earlier, killing at least 60 people.
 None of those bombings have had the symbolic resonance of the one on Mutanabi Street, the embodiment of Baghdad's venerable intellectual history. Avid readers could find novels by the Egyptian writer Naguib Mahfouz and Newsweek magazines from the 1960s. Merchants often spread their wares out on the sidewalk, down the block from a building used for administration by Ottoman-era officials and, after World War I, British colonial officers.
 Religious texts, particularly on Shiite ideology, began to appear after the toppling of Saddam Hussein, who had banned them from markets across Baghdad. The conversations at the Shahbandar cafe blossomed into free expressions of political opinion. The cafe became popular with foreign reporters seeking comments from Iraqi intellectuals on the changes roiling Iraqi society.
 But commerce along Mutanabi Street began to decline last summer after the Iraqi government imposed a citywide curfew every Friday for security reasons, making it tough to get to Mutanabi on its traditional market day.
 An Iraqi colonel on the scene on Monday said the suicide car bomb, which was loaded with gas cylinders, had left a crater more than nine feet deep in the middle of the street. At least 20 cars were set ablaze.
 ''Those terrorists do not represent Islam,'' said Wissam Arif, 45, an engineer and eager browser of the book market. ''They are fighting science. They hate the light of science and scientists. Haven't they killed hundreds of prophets and intellectuals?
 ''Yesterday they killed the prophets and today they are killing the books. But hopefully the just, the science and the light will win. We'll be patient until we achieve victory.''
 There are fewer and fewer public spaces where one can retreat from the violence of Baghdad. An animal market nearby has been bombed three times. Parks where couples once embraced are now empty of life because people are afraid to leave their homes. Some renowned restaurants have shut down and reopened in Amman, Jordan, a city brimming with Iraqi refugees.
 At least six people were killed and dozens wounded Monday in other bombings and shootings in Baghdad, an Interior Ministry official said. The police found 16 bodies in various parts of the city. Six policemen were killed in two attacks in Diyala Province, and a headless body was found in Baquba, the province's capital, police officials said. Two Iraqi Army soldiers and two gunmen were killed in a firefight east of Baquba.
 In the area of Kirkuk, the contested oil city, a policeman was killed and four bodies were found at two other locations, police officials said. An Arab Shiite sheik opposed to the resettlement of Kurds into the region was kidnapped, said Ahmad Hameed al-Ubaidi, a member of an Arab political group. 
 An American soldier was killed and one was wounded by a roadside bomb south of Tikrit on Sunday night, the American military said.
 Aides to Mr. Maliki said Monday that the government had begun an investigation of a raid by British and Iraqi troops on an Iraqi intelligence agency building in Basra. 
 The British military said in a statement that the raid took place on Saturday night after Iraqi special forces captured a ''known terrorist'' who gave information that led the troops to look for a ''known death squad leader'' in the building. While there, the soldiers found 30 prisoners, including one woman and two children, ''many of whom showed signs of torture and abuse.''
 The prisoners then escaped, the British military said. ''It is unclear how this occurred, though we can confirm that the Iraqi forces did not release the prisoners,'' the military said.
 Late Sunday, Mr. Maliki's office released a statement denouncing the raid but did not address the accusations of what appeared to have been government-sanctioned torture.
 In eastern Baghdad, American and Iraqi troops continued to search houses in Sadr City but met no resistance, said Lt. Col. Scott Bleichwehl, an Army spokesman. The American military has begun a push into Sadr City, home of a formidable Shiite militia, as part of the Baghdad security plan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man tried to extinguish part of a fire that followed the detonation of a car bomb yesterday in the Mutanabi Street book market in central Baghdad. (Photo by Khalid Mohammed/Associated Press)
 Wounded Iraqis made their way toward a local hospital after the explosion, in a part of Baghdad dating from the era of a medieval caliphate. (Photo by Ali Abbas/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); BOOKSTORES (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); WRITERS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); SUICIDE (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%) Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%) Edward Wong; Wisam A Habeeb

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



132 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-12New Priorities as Bush Begins Latin America TourPresident Bush is traveling to Latin America, making his first stop in Brazil, with an energy partnership plan to create jobs and decrease poverty and inequality, a marked shift in Washington's priorities for Latin America aimed at countering the challenge posed by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. A11 More Attacks on Iraqi CiviliansA suicide car bomb hit a book market along Mutanabi Street in Baghdad, once a symbol of the city's rich intellectual history. It killed at least 20 people and wounded more than 65. It was the latest of major blasts aimed at civilians since the Iraqi government and American military announced a new security plan. A12U.N. Stops North Korea WorkThe United Nations Development Program said that it was suspending work in North Korea because the country had failed to meet conditions set up in response to American complaints that United Nations money was being diverted to the government of Kim Jong Il. 
 A11Japan Refuses Apology on WarPrime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said that Japan would refuse to comply if the United States Congress demanded an apology for his nation's use of some 200,000 women, mostly Korean and Chinese women known euphemistically here as ''comfort women,'' as sexual slaves during World War II. A10 NATIONAL A13-19 Army Says It Is Working To Improve Medical CenterMembers of Congress heard wrenching testimony from wounded soldiers treated at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and contrite promises from top Army officials to correct the conditions there. A1 Treating Sex OffendersPrograms known as relapse prevention, similar to the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous, have been a cornerstone of efforts to treat sex offenders for the past 20 years. Yet there is no convincing evidence that the treatment works, or that other treatment programs do either. A1Ex-Prosecutor's RevelationThe former federal prosecutor in Maryland, Thomas DiBiagio, said he was forced out in early 2005 because of political pressure stemming from public corruption investigations involving associates of the state's Republican governor. A1 Motivating Women VotersSenator Hillary Rodham Clinton will begin an assertive new effort to enlist thousands of women to play roles in her presidential campaign, hoping to build on the enthusiasm her candidacy has stirred among female voters at early campaign events. A18Alaskan Bridge Project LivesLong after Congress removed about $450 million in budget earmarks for two bridges in Alaska, the fight over whether to build them is not dead. Preparations for the projects have been slowly moving forward even as big questions remain over whether the bridges will be built. A13NEW YORK/REGION B1-6Council Assails Plan For More School AutonomyNew York City lawmakers criticized the Bloomberg administration's plans to give more public school principals wider autonomy, saying there was not enough evidence of success to justify expanding the program. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-11 China's Big Bank PressuredThe three women who oversee more than $1 trillion in foreign exchange reserves in China are under mounting public pressure as critics suggest that the central bank should earn higher profits on the greatest fortune ever assembled. C1Covert Taping at Wal-MartFederal investigators are looking into the actions of a computer systems technician at Wal-Mart Stores who intercepted pager and text messages and taped telephone conversations between Wal-Mart employees and a New York Times reporter, the company said. C1Business Digest C2SCIENCE TIMES F1-10DNA Challenges British HistoryGeneticists who have tested DNA throughout the British Isles are struck by the overall genetic similarities between the Irish, English, Scottish and Welsh, with the implication that the groups may have common ancestry. F1Health & Fitness F5EDITORIAL A22-23Editorials: The right to organize; free to vote in Florida; no comfort; manufacturing misdemeanors.Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.SPORTSTUESDAY D1-6 Two Prep Schools Ruled InvalidThe N.C.A.A. said that it will no longer accept transcripts from two schools that have sent dozens of talented athletes to high-profile college athletics programs. D1Crossword B6TV Listings B9Weather C12

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture with an entry in the News Summary on March 6 about the refusal by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to apologize for his country's use of some 200,000 women as sexual slaves during World War II was published in error. It showed Koichi Haraguchi, Japan's envoy in charge of normalizing ties with North Korea -- not Mr. Abe.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); GOVERNORS (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (61%); CORRUPTION (61%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); KIM JONG IL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



133 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Moves to Soothe Growing Russian Resentment

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has decided to reach out more often and more intensively to Russia at a time when the leadership in Moscow is harshly criticizing American policy and some scholars say the United States has not sufficiently tended to an important relationship.
 Plans by the United States to base elements of a missile defense system in Eastern Europe, as well as Washington's support for expanding NATO, have compounded a sense of resentment within a Russian leadership emboldened by a flood of petrodollars. 
 In the wake of criticism from President Vladimir V. Putin and his inner circle of political advisers and generals, there is a growing acknowledgment among officials in Washington that the United States has not responded as rapidly or eloquently as it might have to a widespread sense of grievance in Russia.
 This frustration grows from a view, broadly held in the Kremlin and among the Russian people, that the Russian leadership has accommodated many of Washington's interests in the years since the Soviet Union fell but that Washington has not reciprocated.
 Senior administration officials said their initiative called for engaging Russian leaders in private discussions to illustrate that the United States was putting extra effort into nurturing the relationship and that Russia deserved a more thorough dialogue on American foreign policy and national security plans.
 A senior administration official involved in developing the strategy said that under the program, ''we'll have more consultation and we'll do it more extensively and more intensively, so that there is a good understanding of each other's views.'' 
 ''That is not to say that every objection and concern has to be accommodated or that they have some kind of veto over our program,'' the official said. ''What it does say is that we should be willing to sit down, both Russia and the United States, in a real dialogue, and have a real dialogue where we try and address the interests and concerns of both sides.''
 Those mutual interests, administration officials said, include halting the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea, cooperating on counterterrorism and counternarcotics efforts and on building missile defense, which American officials argue should interest Russia, which is within striking distance of both Iran and North Korea.
 Senior administration officials said the initiative would also involve a more intensive dialogue between the Russian and American militaries, a forum that might lend itself to fuller technical exchanges about Washington's plans for missile defense.
 Administration officials have said they will stand their ground in defending the United States against the substance of the Russian critique. In particular, the officials say, Russian threats will not halt Washington's plans to place elements of a missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic, nor diminish Washington's support of NATO expansion. 
 The stunning directness of Moscow's recent public complaints is viewed as undermining United States-Russia relations. Equally worrisome to the administration is that the harsh tone of the Kremlin's comments has greatly troubled European allies caught in between, especially in former Soviet client states in Eastern Europe that later joined NATO.
 The new round of verbal attacks from Russia began Feb. 10 in Munich, when Mr. Putin used a keynote address at a security conference to accuse the United States of overstepping its borders to impose its will on the world through the unilateral application of military power. He criticized the American policies on missile defense and NATO expansion.
 Some analysts said initially that the speech had been intended for a Russian domestic audience. But there now is a growing sense among Russia experts that the tough language was specifically aimed at the United States and the NATO allies.
 ''We weren't paying attention. We were distracted, busy, with other problems in the world, in particular Iraq,'' said Michael A. McFaul, a professor at Stanford University who is a Russia scholar. ''The administration is now put in a position of playing defense, as we are finally seeing the international consequences of the rather dramatic internal transformation inside Russia with the erosion of democracy, a new ruling class, a massive transfer of property rights from so-called oligarchs to, basically, friends of Putin, most of whom are from the old K.G.B.''
 Senior administration officials said the new effort to reach out to Russia already had been put into action, and included Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's consultation with her Russian counterpart, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov, during meetings in Berlin on Feb. 21 and 22 about whether Russia had the appetite to pursue a second Security Council resolution for sanctions against Iran. 
 The Berlin meetings were intended in large part to show Russia that the Bush administration was consulting with Moscow before its diplomatic initiatives.
 Ms. Rice and Mr. Lavrov have a peppery relationship. While the two have met often to discuss Iran, most of the sessions have been in official formats including the five permanent members of the Security Council and Germany, in contrast to the more ad hoc Berlin session with Mr. Lavrov and counterparts from Germany and the European Union.
 Ms. Rice's meetings with Mr. Lavrov were followed in the same week by a visit to Moscow by Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser. Although Mr. Hadley's trip was organized before the remarks by Russian officials, he used his visit to offer great detail about the administration's agenda, including plans for missile defense.
 Mr. Hadley also gave a full description of a pending decision by the United States to build a new generation of nuclear warheads, according to American and Russian officials. Mr. Hadley offered those comments even before the Russians asked about the warhead program in that meeting.
 NATO diplomats have also expressed frustration at Russia's words of shock over proposals for basing missile interceptors in Poland and radar in the Czech Republic, and they produced lists of sessions in which officials from Moscow were briefed on the antimissile effort in NATO-Russia Council sessions and in bilateral talks.
 Russian officials complain that those meetings were not two-way consultations about American plans but one-way notifications at which their concerns were not weighed.
 The United States needs Russia if it is to succeed in its quest of ratcheting up the pressure at the Security Council to block Iran's nuclear ambitions. 
 The first Security Council resolution -- passed Dec. 23 -- took four months to complete, partly because Russia balked at the much tougher package of economic sanctions that the Bush administration sought.
 Moscow also balked over sanctions against a nuclear power plant that Russia is building in Bushehr, in southern Iran.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, meeting government officials at the Kremlin yesterday. (Pool photo by Mikhael Klimenyev) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); DRUG POLICY (77%); VETO (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); TERRORISM (50%); DRUG INTERDICTION (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%) Thom Shanker; Helene Cooper; George W (Pres) Bush; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Russia; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



134 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Dollars to Spare In China's Trove

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 3 

 BODY:
In the insular world of China's central bank they are known as the Three Xiaos, three women with similar names who oversee the greatest fortune ever assembled: China's more than $1 trillion in foreign exchange reserves.
 The Three Xiaos are exceptions in the male-dominated world of Chinese policy making. And after the sharp fall in Chinese stock markets shook financial markets around the world, the three women face enormous challenges, including a potential showdown over government policies, with the meeting beginning March 5 of the National People's Congress, the Communist Party-controlled national legislature.
Public pressure is mounting on the central bank, the People's Bank of China. In postings on Internet message boards in China and in conversations among educated urban Chinese, critics suggest that the central bank should earn higher profits from its vast hoard -- for instance, by taking more risk and investing in stocks -- and use some of it to help a nation where most workers still earn less than a tenth of the wages of the typical American. 
 Foreign exchange reserves have soared across much of the developing world, in countries as diverse as Brazil, Thailand and India, but particularly in China. The reason lies in powerful currency intervention, as these countries strive to keep their exports competitive in Western markets by curbing the appreciation of their currencies against the dollar.
 They have bought vast amounts of dollars from their exporters, giving back local currency in exchange. And then they have struggled with what to do with these dollars.
 Most central banks have invested their dollars in American securities, particularly Treasury bonds and notes, but sometimes mortgage-backed securities as well. In recent years, these giant purchases have helped hold down interest rates that American home buyers pay for mortgages and the federal government pays to finance its budget deficits.
 If central banks move out of such securities, that could push American interest rates higher. But moving into stocks, which tend to earn higher returns over the long term, poses market risks, as central banks carefully noted recently as the markets fell. 
 Some of the comments on Chinese Internet boards have been unusually strident. They have criticized the government for helping American taxpayers and home owners by investing hundreds of billions of dollars in Treasury debt and other securities instead of spending the money at home.
 ''China has huge amounts of foreign reserves; why doesn't the government put more of it into education?'' one posting this winter said. 
 Doubling the investment return on China's foreign currency reserves, to 8 percent from 4 percent, would generate enough money to triple the nation's education budget, said Tao Dong, the chief Asia economist at Credit Suisse. ''Enhancing returns on the foreign exchange,'' he said, ''is natural and expected by the Chinese people.''
 Yet spending the United States dollars on education and other domestic programs is not a simple task. The central bank would have to sell some of those dollars to buy the Chinese currency, the yuan, to be able to spend it on schools.
 But in buying so many yuan, the central bank would nudge up the currency's exchange value. That would make Chinese exports more expensive -- something the bank has tried to prevent.
 On top of that, it has already had to borrow yuan -- by issuing bonds -- to buy the dollars from exporters, and the bank would struggle to repay debts if it then spent its reserves on social programs. 
 The Chinese government may be poised to respond to the criticism later this month after it formally sets up a new investment agency, several people close to the government's planning said.
 Having invested for decades in the same Treasury securities that most governments purchase, China is now preparing to begin investing public money in stocks, corporate bonds and even commodities like oil and possibly strategic metals.
 ''That management has to be extremely professional,'' said Rajat M. Nag, managing director general of the Asian Development Bank, alluding to central bank fund managers of numerous countries. ''And I don't think it can be done by bureaucrats.'' 
 Both South Korea, which is preparing to move in the same direction, and China are trying in part to emulate the highly secretive Government Investment Corporation in Singapore. But China faces greater difficulties than Singapore, which has a tradition of highly professional money management and a civil service that is largely free of corruption. 
 By contrast, President Hu Jintao has identified chronic corruption as the biggest challenge facing China, and government officials tend to have fairly narrow expertise in managing asset portfolios.
 The central bank faces a particular challenge in managing the country's reserves. People close to the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which is controlled by the central bank and manages the reserves, estimated that it already holds about $100 billion worth of American mortgage-backed securities. That is a somewhat unusual investment choice for a country's foreign exchange reserves, but it was selected in the hope of achieving better yields than on Treasuries.
 None of these mortgage-backed securities are said to be tainted by the subprime securities that have fallen sharply in value, though some bankers worry that troubles in the subprime market could spread to more creditworthy mortgages as well.
 The central bank is highly secretive about its holdings. But experts estimate that it has a further $600 billion or so worth of Treasuries that it lends actively to generate profit, as well as at least $200 billion in euro-denominated bonds and the rest in bonds denominated in Japanese yen and other currencies.
 State-controlled media in China have reported that a new government investment corporation could be asked to oversee up to $200 billion more, which would amount to roughly 10 months' trade surpluses this year. Lou Jiwei, the man who is currently vice minister of finance, will most likely head the investment corporation, but no decision has been reached on the relative influence that the central bank and its rival, the finance ministry, would exert over the new agency, people close to the discussions said.
 A final decision could be announced as soon as the National People's Congress meeting, although the result will almost certainly be worked out behind closed doors before being presented to the congress for approval.
 Representatives from a long list of the largest American, European and Chinese banks have approached the central bank and the finance ministry in recent months, hoping to win lucrative contracts to help manage the investment corporation funds. The central bank already lets banks manage small chunks of its foreign reserves under contract.
 The State Administration of Foreign Exchange has a troubled history. One director in the 1990s, Zhu Xiaohua, was sentenced to 15 years in prison on charges of corruption during subsequent postings as a top bank executive; his wife committed suicide, and he has been released on bail to seek medical treatment. 
 Mr. Zhu's successor at the agency, Li Fuxiang, was abruptly hospitalized in 2000 and then died mysteriously when he fell from a seventh-floor hospital window.
 The foreign exchange administration has become a quieter place since the Three Xiaos rose to power there, people close to the administration said.
 The leader of the three is Wu Xiaoling, 60, who became the administrator in 2000 upon the death of Mr. Li. She has since moved up to become the most senior deputy governor of the central bank, and remains particularly active on issues involving the country's foreign exchange reserves.
 The current administrator, and also a deputy governor of the central bank, is Hu Xiaolian, who turns 49 this year and is a rising star in Chinese financial policy making. The last of the three is Zhang Xiaohui, director general of monetary policy at the central bank.
 The State Administration of Foreign Exchange declined to allow interviews. By coincidence, the governor of the central bank is a man who also has Xiao (pronounced SHEEOW) in his name: Zhou Xiaochuan, whom Ms. Wu is a possible candidate to succeed.
 The Three Xiaos have very similar backgrounds. All have spent their entire careers working their way up through a succession of postings at the central bank, people who know them said. Ms. Wu and Ms. Hu even did their graduate work at the central bank's own school, and are said to have been star students.
 Their ascendancy in part reflects the departure of many men from the central bank over the last decade, to the point that women now dominate the senior ranks of the institution. Chinese Communist Party officials have insisted that central bank officials be paid no more than civil service wages, so that even fairly senior officials earn as little as $500 a month with minimal benefits.
 By contrast, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the big state-owned banks are all permitted to pay rates that are competitive with those in the private sector, with salary and benefits totaling at least $1,000 a month and sometimes $3,000. This has allowed them to lure managers from the central bank, as well as Chinese returning from overseas with doctorates in economics.
 Unlike many Chinese government agencies, the central bank no longer owns hotels, restaurants or other businesses, having been forced by the government to divest themselves of them in the late 1990s to prevent conflicts of interest. It is common for officials at other agencies to hold second jobs at companies controlled by their agencies, and to have company cars and plush housing as a result.
 The State Administration of Foreign Exchange has now been given permission to pay wages closer to market levels, but the rest of the central bank complex still struggles to hire China's best and brightest, said Victor Shih, a Chinese banking specialist at Northwestern University. 
 ''The pay issue,'' he said, ''is huge.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wu Xiaoling, left, central bank deputy governor, is active in foreign exchange matters
Hu Xiaolian is seen as a rising star in financial policy. (Photos by Left, Doug Kanter/Bloomberg News
Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)
 (pg. C1)Chart: ''A Soaring Bankroll''The Chinese government is struggling for the best way to manage more than $1 trillion in foreign exchange reserves.Graph tracks China's foreign exchange reserves since 1989.(Source by People's Bank of China, via CEIC Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); MEN (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BONDS (68%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Labor; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: People's Bank of China

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: WU XIAOLING (71%) Wu Xiaoling; Hu Xiaolian; Zhang Xiaohui; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (75%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



135 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Unites To Defend Tax Loopholes

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and some Republican leaders in the State Senate are joining forces to oppose Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to raise money by closing tax loopholes, which Mr. Bloomberg believes would harm New York City businesses.
 The mayor met with Joseph L. Bruno, the State Senate majority leader, at City Hall last Thursday to discuss their concerns about the governor's budget. And today, in testimony before the City Council, Mark Page, the city's budget director, is expected to express his reservations about the tax-loophole proposal, according to the mayor's staff members. 
Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, and Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, have been at odds over the impact the governor's proposed $120.6 billion state budget will have on the city.
 Last month, Mr. Bloomberg excoriated Mr. Spitzer's proposal to eliminate the city's share of a state program called Aid and Incentives to Municipalities, which provides the city with $327.9 million annually in unrestricted aid, saying the cut would ''produce an enormous hole'' in the city budget.
 Mr. Spitzer maintains that the city benefits over all in his budget, which includes steep increases in aid to city schools.
 A particularly objectionable point for Mr. Bloomberg in Mr. Spitzer's budget is a proposal to close 13 tax loopholes mostly affecting large companies. 
 Under the governor's budget, the city would have the option of closing the same loopholes that the state proposes to close. 
 If the city exercises that option, according to Mr. Spitzer's aides, closing the tax loopholes would provide the city with $374 million in the next fiscal year, rising to $379 million a year thereafter -- more than making up for the loss of $327.9 million in annual aid. (The mayor estimated that closing the loopholes would provide the city with slightly less: $356 million next year, and $332 million a year thereafter.)
 But Mr. Bloomberg told members of the Legislature last month that the state aid is a recurring, stable source of revenue, while closing loopholes amounts to raising taxes on companies that already have high tax bills. The mayor is concerned that higher taxes could cause companies to move operations from the city. Mr. Spitzer maintains that his budget does not raise taxes.
 ''For the governor, the issue is one of fundamental fairness: whether certain corporations and banks, by taking advantage of aggressive tax planning and what are clearly, in our opinion, tax loopholes, should be permitted to pay a substantially lower tax rate than other corporations and banks around the state,'' said Paul E. Francis, the governor's budget director.
 He added, ''The question of whether corporate tax rates are too high is an entirely separate issue and one that, over time, the governor is prepared to address.'' He said the share of all state taxes paid by businesses has declined over the past decade. 
 Of the 13 tax-loophole provisions in the governor's budget, two appear to particularly concern the mayor. The first would require corporations that conduct ''substantial intercorporate transactions'' with affiliates and subsidiaries to file a combined corporate-franchise tax return, rather than separate returns. (The governor believes that subsidiaries are sometimes created to artificially reduce the income of the parent corporation, thereby avoiding taxes.)
 The governor has said that this provision would raise $215 million a year for the state and $185 million a year for the city; the city has estimated that it would get $161 million a year. 
 The second provision would eliminate the deduction for certain subsidiary dividends received by a parent company from real estate investment trusts, known as REITs, or regulated investment companies, known as RICs. 
 The governor estimated that that provision would generate $104 million next year, and $83 million thereafter, for the state, and $70 million a year for the city. The city calculated that it would benefit from the provision by $78 million next year, and $62 million thereafter. 
 City officials said the provision on corporations' substantial transactions would probably affect 24 large financial services companies, while the provision on eliminating deductions for certain dividends would affect 57 savings-and-loan companies and three commercial banks. 
 Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, said she was optimistic that a compromise could be reached with the governor. ''The financial services industry is the engine of the state economy, so to do anything to damage New York's place as a banking headquarters would be counterproductive,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX PLANNING (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Relocation of Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



136 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Shift Is Seen On Trade

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5 

 BODY:
When the Democrats swept to victory last fall, after a campaign fueled partly by attacks on President Bush's trade policies, trade deals promoted by the administration seemed doomed in the new Congress. But that was then.
 In the last week, the administration and its Republican allies on Capitol Hill have signaled a new willingness to work with Democrats to try to secure their support for three pending trade deals -- with Panama, Peru and Colombia. The focus of their talks has been guarantees for the rights of workers in countries with which the United States has negotiated trade accords, including a ban on child labor and forced labor.
''There's no question that there's been a change on the Republican side,'' Representative Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said Monday. ''They refused to talk about these things before, and now they're talking.''
 But it is still not clear how Democrats will respond. Mr. Rangel said that they remained highly skeptical about signs of Republican flexibility on trade and that he had not seen anything ''acceptable to a broad number of members'' on his side. 
 ''The question will be whether, at the end of the day, things really have changed,'' he added. ''So far the answer would be no.''
 Mr. Rangel's Republican counterpart on the Ways and Means panel, Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, was more hopeful.
 ''We've made a lot of progress, but we certainly have not concluded our efforts,'' he said Monday. ''I'm very encouraged by what's happened so far.''
 The talks over labor standards were due to accelerate this week, with Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, on one side, and Mr. Rangel and Mr. McCrery on the other. Another crucial negotiator is Representative Sander M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the trade subcommittee of Ways and Means.
 The negotiators are trying to complete a broad agreement leading to passage of the Panama, Peru and Colombia deals before the end of March. 
 They are striving for language that would guarantee the right to organize and would ban child labor and forced labor for American trading partners. Such rights were incorporated into trade deals negotiated by President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, and upward of 90 Democrats in the House voted to approve them.
 But for the last six years, the Bush administration and the Republican Congressional leadership refused to include any such guarantees in trade deals, and few Democrats voted for them. An accord lowering tariff barriers between the United States and Caribbean countries passed by only two votes in the Republican-led House in 2005.
 Administration officials say they recognize that without flexibility on labor, trade deals are dead. But if language on labor rights is negotiated that is acceptable to Democrats and the administration, it could become a ''template'' for future deals, including a possible global trade accord that is still being negotiated.
 There would even be a chance, administration officials say, for incorporating such language into approval of Mr. Bush's request to renew his authority to negotiate trade deals and get an expedited vote for them. That authority expires June 30, and Democrats say they would not support it right now.
 An administration official, asking not to be identified while discussing the talks, also insisted that some progress had been made. ''They're not there yet, but both sides are trying to look at the options available to make it happen,'' he said.
 But Democrats assert that there has not been as much progress as Republicans are saying, and that they do not want to be stampeded.
 Both sides say that there is a fundamental impasse over insistence by Democrats that the trade deals be amended to incorporate a requirement that a trading-partner country adhere to International Labor Organization standards, including the right to organize, and the ban on slave labor, child labor and employment discrimination.
 The administration responded first by offering language requiring a country to adhere to its own labor laws, a concession rejected by Democrats. The administration now is offering to require that countries adhere to the ''equivalent'' of American laws.
 Representative Levin, the Democratic chairman of the trade subcommittee, said Monday that the equivalency requirement would open a huge loophole. ''They continue to resist addressing the basic issue,'' he said of the administration.
 But the administration, backed by industry groups, charges that organized labor is working with Democrats to adopt standards that are really aimed at loosening American restrictions on labor at home. A generous labor amendment could lead to challenges against American laws that bar strikes by American government employees, they say.
 ''They don't want this to be a boomerang that rewrites U.S. labor laws,'' the administration official said.
 Another issue is whether any guarantees on labor rights would be incorporated in the body of the three pending trade agreements, requiring them to be renegotiated, or adopted as a side letter as Republicans want. Democrats say only embodying them in the negotiated accords would make them enforceable.
 Democrats caution. meanwhile, that even if a breakthrough occurs on labor issues, the Colombia, Panama and Peru deals must also be amended in other ways, particularly by adding a requirement respecting environmental regulations in the trading-partner countries.
 Other concerns of the Democrats and of organized labor include clauses in the trade deals that critics say would permit lawsuits in the United States that could undermine American laws, like those requiring prevailing wages for contracts on which foreign countries might bid. 
 ''If the Democrats fix the labor piece, they have to start talking about the other things that are also extremely important to us,'' said Thea M. Lee, chief international economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 That organization, which has long charged that labor deals have led to a loss of American jobs, is scheduled to reiterate its criticism of the administration's approach on trade at a convention on Tuesday, and to warn Democrats not to take its support for granted, especially with a presidential election heating up.
 Democrats say they doubt that the administration would be prepared to let Ms. Schwab, who has been in the job for only eight months, negotiate a deal that would be so politically sensitive.
 The administration has been adamantly opposed to Democratic attempts to push for the agenda of organized labor. Vice President Dick Cheney, for example, has asserted that President Bush will veto a bill recently approved in the House that would make it easier for workers to form unions without holding a secret ballot.
 In addition, the administration has opposed Democratic attempts to expand the rights of workers to organize and keep control over their work rules in the new Homeland Security Department. The White House political strategy has long seen organized labor as the Democrats' most loyal constituency.
 Some Democrats say they do not think the White House will agree to any of the changes they are pushing until there is involvement in the negotiations by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., a leading advocate of trade deals in many speeches, or by the advisers around President Bush like Karl Rove.
 Administration officials, on the other hand, say they do not trust the Democrats and worry that if they give in on organized labor, the leadership under Nancy Pelosi, the Housespeaker, and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, will find other reasons to oppose trade deals for fear of antagonizing organized labor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''There's no question that there's been a change on the Republican side,'' Charles B. Rangel, a New York Democrat, said yesterday. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD LABOR LAWS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CHILD LABOR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Labor; Child Labor; Children and Youth; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CHARLES B RANGEL (90%); JIM MCCRERY (79%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Charles B (Rep) Rangel; Jim (Rep) Mccrery; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PERU (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) United States; Panama; Peru; Colombia

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007



137 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Revised Figures Show Sharper Slowdown in Productivity in the Fourth Quarter of 2006

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
In business cycles, productivity slowdowns can be a difficult time for workers because employers typically respond by letting employees go. New labor statistics released yesterday showed that productivity is indeed slowing faster than first thought, raising the question of whether layoffs are soon to follow. 
 A report yesterday by the Labor Department said productivity in the final three months of 2006 was about half the rate first reported. And for the year, it grew at the slowest pace since 1997. The government also said that companies compensated employees at a much higher rate than first calculated, which could add to pressure on businesses.
The combination of rising labor costs and wilting productivity is potentially troublesome for the nation's economic outlook and for the Federal Reserve, which is trying to temper inflation while maintaining a healthy rate of growth. 
 Productivity among nonfarm businesses in the fourth quarter was 1.6 percent, compared with the initial reading last month of 3 percent, the Labor Department said. Unit labor costs, a measure of compensation that factors in worker productivity, jumped 6.6 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 1.7 percent. For the year, unit labor costs rose 3.2 percent, the most in six years.
 ''If unit labor costs are rising you have a choice as a company,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at the advisory firm ITG. ''You can raise prices to recoup those losses, or you can cut back on employment. The Fed is fearful of A. My assertion is that we're much more likely to get B.''
 Economists attributed a considerable chunk of the rise in labor costs in the fourth quarter to year-end bonuses but said that the overall rate of inflation was still high enough to give the Fed pause. Many economists said the new statistics reduced the chances the Fed would lower rates this year, as investors have been expecting.
 Productivity growth is a necessary force to maintain the momentum of an economic expansion, and without it, the economy is more vulnerable to stalling. The annual rate of productivity increase for 2006, 1.6 percent, was the lowest since 1997. By comparison, productivity advanced 2.1 percent in 2005 and 2.9 percent in 2004. 
 In a research note yesterday, Goldman Sachs economists said the lower productivity reading could foreshadow a ''lower speed limit for the economy.''
 Slowing productivity is the latest sign that the economic outlook for businesses is less than inviting. As a result, businesses appear to be cutting their spending. The Commerce Department reported yesterday that orders placed with manufacturers fell last month at the fastest pace in six years. Last week, a steep slide in orders for durable goods -- heavy-duty items like generators, aircraft and computers -- added to fears that the economy was weaker than previously thought and helped set off a deep plunge in stock prices.
 While many economists see unemployment rising slightly, few are predicting a sharp contraction in the labor market.
 ''While businesses may pull back a little, I think there are limits to how far they pull back,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist for the economic forecaster Global Insight. Mr. Behravesh said that strong export growth was one thing working to the advantage of businesses and workers. ''The strong export story for the U.S. will put a bit of a floor on the jobs market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (62%) United States Economy; Productivity; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



138 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Disavows 1980s-Era Bonds

BYLINE: By JENS ERIK GOULD

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, March 6 

 BODY:
The plot would seem to come right out of a novel in which the reader does not know whom to believe.
 A group of investors from Columbus, Ohio, spends $100 million in 2004 to buy zero-coupon bonds -- debt that pays interest at maturity -- from a Venezuelan state bank that went bankrupt in the 1980s. A few months earlier, in October 2003, Venezuela's solicitor general ruled that the bonds were valid. But when the investor group tried to redeem the debt, it could not, and learned only later that the solicitor general had reversed herself in December 2003.
That is the basic story line in an international financial dispute that is playing out in Federal District Court for Southern Ohio. The investor group, Skye Ventures, is suing Venezuela for its refusal to honor the bonds, which it says are now worth as much as $1 billion.
 The dispute over the bonds, which bear the name of an extinct state agricultural development bank, the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario, or Bandagro, has not recently been discussed in public by the government of Venezuela, where President Hugo Chavez rarely lets any issue involving the United States pass. 
 But it could well become a cautionary tale, whether for investors in emerging markets or for Venezuela -- which, Skye says, may be liable for up to $6 billion if all the bondholders press their claims.
 There are signs that Venezuela has taken the case seriously. Its chief lawyer in the case, Esther Bigott de Loaiza, has close ties to top government officials. But she was ousted late last year after she was named in a lawsuit, now dismissed, that said Venezuela had paid her $18 million in the case. Ms. Bigott de Loaiza declined several requests for an interview, saying only that she had left the case ''in the ninth inning, with Venezuela winning 9 to 0.'' 
 Last week, Venezuela fired its American lawyers, the Florida-based firm of Ruden McClosky. Armando E. Lacasa, a lawyer in the Miami office who was assigned to the case, said this week that Venezuela had not given him an explanation for its action. He did say Venezuela had not yet paid Ruden for the two years of work it did on the case. 
 Waldemar Cordero Vale, who was president of the bank when the bonds were supposed to have been issued in 1981, said in an interview that he never signed them. He asserts that a Panamanian investment group that sold the paper to Skye participated in a scheme with Venezuelan officials to share the payment. ''It's the biggest fraud in the history of Venezuela,'' said Mr. Cordero Vale, who now takes care of a farm on the Venezuelan plains.
 Lawyers at Ruden McClosky had also raised questions about the Panamanian group, which they say was managed by James Pavanelli and had unsuccessfully sought payment on the bonds since the late 1980s. They pointed to documents bearing the letterheads of Interpol and various Italian courts that said Mr. Pavanelli was suspected of trying to transport fake Bandagro bonds in 1988 and was convicted of fraud in connection with the bonds in Italy in 2003. 
 An Interpol spokesman declined to comment. The F.B.I. said it had no information about Mr. Pavanelli.
 Skye disputes the Venezuelan assertions. Its president, David Richards, said, ''If you consider the idea that their theory is that a U.S. firm with prominent investors has a method of creating investments by bribing foreign officials and buying their bonds, then suing in U.S. courts, well it is fairly preposterous, isn't it?''
 Skye contends that when Bandagro went bankrupt in 1981, Venezuela assured investors that it would assume and pay the bank's debts. 
 The Federal District Court ruled last year that Skye's ability to sue Venezuela in the United States would hinge more on whether the first opinion by the solicitor general, Marisol Plaza, was valid than on the authenticity of the notes. The ruling gave Skye an advantage in the case because it turned attention away from evidence suggesting that the bonds were fake. Depositions in the case had been set for later this month, though Mr. Lacasa of Ruden said Venezuela had asked the court for a 90-day delay so it would have time to hire new lawyers.
 The Finance Ministry did not respond to interview requests. Ms. Plaza told a local newspaper, El Nacional, that her first opinion was merely an internal document never meant to be made public and that bondholders had stolen a copy.
 Mr. Richards, who would not disclose the names of his partners, said his investor group included a billionaire principal of a private equity firm and a Fortune 500 executive. He said he expected that the verdict would reinforce the power of the American courts to protect American investors. And he warned that Skye could go after Venezuelan assets in the United States, like the Citgo oil company, if Venezuela lost and still refused to pay. Legal experts said, though, that taking aim at state-owned companies could present obstacles for creditors. 
 Skye paints the case as a litmus test for the Chavez government's willingness to pay its obligations, arguing that a refusal may damage its creditworthiness in international markets. 
 ''If he doesn't pay these bonds that I bought on the basis of a decision of his highest legal officer,'' Mr. Richards said, ''what's to say he doesn't have to pay every bond?'' 
 But the group's investment in Venezuela is far from representative of most investor activity in Venezuelan debt. 
 In fact, credit-rating agencies have a stable outlook for Venezuela's debt, mainly because the Chavez government has benefited from high oil prices and has foreign reserves and other funds totaling some $50 billion. That has helped the government maintain a solid record of making payments.
 ''On a numbers basis, Venezuela is doing much better than its peers,'' said Richard Francis, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's. 
 Still, Mr. Chavez has generated concern in much of private industry here since January, when he announced the nationalization of the electricity and telecommunications industries, whose flagship companies were partly owned by American businesses. The president is tightening state control over the economy and says he is driving Venezuela toward socialism.
 ''These nationalizations affect the private sector working in Venezuela, but the government's capacity to pay is still the same,'' said Hilario Ramirez, associate director for Fitch Ratings in Venezuela. 
 Legal experts say the Bandagro case is unusual because the underlying validity of the bonds is in question, while most cases seek to enforce bonds whose legality is not being contested.
 The case could increase the due diligence burden on investors if there is persuasive evidence that the notes are authentic, and Venezuela wins anyway, said Anna Gelpern, an associate professor of law at Rutgers University, Newark, and an expert on emerging markets debt. The verdict will not have much effect on investors, she said, if the paper is proved to be false.
 Whether a government legal officer's ''opinion is sufficient to turn a fake into a real bond is a serious question mark,'' Ms. Gelpern said.
 Brokerage firms, former lawmakers and local economists interviewed for this article -- many of them sharply critical of the government -- agree that the bonds are indeed fake and that Venezuela should not pay.
 A 2003 National Assembly investigation of the case supplied by Francisco Rodriguez, a lawmaker at the time who is now on the faculty of economics at Wesleyan University in Connecticut, found no record of the debt issue in any government institution. 
 And before Skye bought the bonds, previous finance ministers issued statements warning of the circulation of fraudulent Bandagro debt. Mr. Cordero Vale said Skye never contacted him about the bonds' authenticity before buying them.
 Skye responds that it conducted five months of exhaustive due diligence before purchasing the bonds. It says it learned at that point of the solicitor general's first finding but was never told of her reversal. 
 Skye has hired a Los Angeles public relations firm specializing in crisis management, Sitrick & Company, whose clients include Rush Limbaugh and Halle Berry, in an effort to galvanize favorable public opinion.
 Robert R. Bottome, editor of a Caracas economic magazine, Veneconomia, who has followed the Bandagro bond case since the notes appeared in the 1980s, is among the critics here who accuse Venezuela's legal team of mishandling the case. ''They couldn't have handled it worse if they had really wanted to lose the case,'' he said. 
 Analysts like Mr. Ramirez of Fitch contend that the Venezuelan government wants to prevent the case from affecting its standing in the international markets, and would therefore be likely to settle if it stands to lose the case and any subsequent appeals. Others, like Miguel Octavio of BBO Servicios Financieros, a Caracas brokerage firm, say that Venezuela's willingness to honor its foreign obligations ultimately depends on whether oil prices remain high enough to keep government coffers full. 
 ''Chavez has paid off debt because he can,'' Mr. Octavio said. ''The day he needs money, we'll see if he changes his mind.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Waldemar Cordero Vale, since retired, says he never signed the bonds. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 David Richards, president of the investor group Skye Ventures, says the bonds may be worth $1 billion and raise issues of Venezuelan credibility. (Photo by Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%) Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Government Bonds; Economic Conditions and Trends; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%) Skye Ventures; Ruden McClosky (Law Firm)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (56%) Armando E Lacasa; Waldemar Cordero Vale; James Pavanelli; David Richards; Jens Erik Gould

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Venezuela; Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



139 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 726 words

PERSON: Martin A. Trow

HEADLINE: Martin Trow, 80, Sociologist And Higher Education Expert

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Martin A. Trow, a sociologist whose research on higher education reverberated through North America and Europe, particularly his description of the transition of a college education from elite privilege to mass product, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 80.
 The cause was a brain tumor, according to an announcement by the University of California, Berkeley, where he taught and was an administrator. 
Dr. Trow's work, in more than 150 articles and 11 books, included the comparative study of educational systems, the problems of learning and teaching, the status and academic freedom of university professors, and quality assessment. 
 His paper for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in 1973 about the effects of universal access to higher education has been discussed for decades.
 ''The growth of enrollments,'' Dr. Trow wrote, ''and the movement toward universal higher education, has made enrollment in college increasingly obligatory for many students, and their presence there 'increasingly involuntary.' 
 ''In this respect, colleges begin to resemble elementary and secondary schools, where it has long been recognized that compulsory attendance increases problems of student motivation, boredom and the maintenance of order.''
 In 1971, Dr. Trow and A. H. Halsey of Oxford wrote ''The British Academics,'' warning that the costs of a planned expansion of British higher education meant an end to amenities that professors and students had come to expect.
 ''Democratization of higher education had to manage with economics,'' they wrote. ''The party was over.''
 Dr. Trow often contributed to education debates, repeatedly questioning efforts to quantify intellectual progress. In an interview with The Associated Press in 2001, he said learning to think ''doesn't really lend itself to these sort of metrics.''
 He advised university and government education officials in Europe and the United States, where he headed or served on panels appointed by the federal Education Department and the National Research Council, among other bodies.
 Martin Trow was born on June 21, 1926, in Brooklyn. His studies at the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J., were interrupted by service in the Navy in World War II. He returned to Stevens and received a mechanical engineering degree. He went to work as an engineer while attending night classes at what was then called the New School for Social Research.
 He enrolled as a doctoral candidate at Columbia, where he studied with the sociologist Robert K. Merton, who is often credited with coining phrases like ''role model'' and ''unintended consequences.''
 Dr. Trow teamed with two other Columbia doctoral candidates, James S. Coleman and Seymour Martin Lipset, to write ''Union Democracy: The Internal Politics of the International Typographical Union'' (1956). The work examined the union's success in democratic, rather than oligarchic, governance.
 He taught at Bennington College from 1953 to 1957, when he moved to Berkeley. In 1964, he found himself appalled by the behavior of protesters in the Free Speech Movement. In an interview with The New York Sun in 2004, he noted their ''sheer incivility.'' The protests provoked a split in the sociology department, and Dr. Trow left, moving to what is now the Goldman School of Public Policy. From 1976 to 1988, Dr. Trow was director of the Center for Studies of Higher Education at Berkeley. He had high posts in the governing bodies of Berkeley and the entire University of California system, retiring in 1993.
 Surviving are his wife, Katherine; two sons, Paul, of Natick, Mass., and Peter, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a daughter, Sarah Eydam of Antioch, Calif.; and a grandson.
 In 1977, Dr. Trow completed a study showing college students were more conservative than in 1969, when he conducted a similar survey. Those favoring the death penalty, for example, had risen to 60 percent from 36 percent.
 In 2004, he said in an interview with The New York Times that conservatives suffered discrimination in academia. Calling himself a conservative, Dr. Trow suggested that liberal professors were confusing their ideology with ''what decent, intelligent human beings believe.''
 ''Debate is stifled,'' he said, ''and conservatives either go in the closet or get to be seen as slightly kooky.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Wednesday about Martin A. Trow, a sociologist of education, incorrectly described one of the three co-authors of ''Union Democracy: The Internal Politics of the International Typographical Union'' (1956). Seymour Martin Lipset was then a member of the Columbia faculty, not a fellow doctoral candidate of Mr. Trow and James S. Coleman, who worked with Mr. Lipset on the project and were listed as co-authors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (60%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (57%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



140 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: A Waterfront That Has Left Its Wasteland Days Behind

BYLINE: By WENDY KNIGHT

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt. 

 BODY:
From the rooftop terrace of the soon-to-open Courtyard by Marriott -- the first new hotel built downtown here in three decades -- a visitor can see the expansive waterfront, which is now a thriving arts and cultural center. A beautifully landscaped park and a promenade buffer the eastern shore of Lake Champlain. A smattering of handsome brick-and-stone buildings abut the shoreline. 
 But it was not always so. Until 1990, when Burlington residents approved a master revitalization plan (which was updated in 1998), the waterfront was a wasteland of abandoned junk and railroad yards, old oil tanks and closed utility buildings. Within a year, the city built the 11-acre Waterfront Park and community boathouse, beginning a 17-year redevelopment partnership between the private and public sectors. 
In addition to the park, the city redeveloped the Coast Guard Station, added a fishing pier and a skate park and was instrumental in creating Echo at the Leahy Center for Lake Champlain, an aquarium and science center on the former site of the Naval Reserve Center. Private developers added their residential and mixed-used projects, including luxury condominiums and affordable housing. 
 To date, 20 public or private buildings have been built or renovated on or near the waterfront for a total public-private investment that exceeds $128 million, according to Michael Monte, the director of the city's Community and Economic Development Office.
 The 127-room Marriott, scheduled to open in April, and 32 adjacent condos -- known collectively as Westlake -- are the latest aspect of the waterfront revitalization, and an example of the public-private partnership. The $32.5 million project is on the corner of Cherry and Battery Streets, occupying one of the remaining pieces of land that ''sat fallow for 30 years,'' said David Scheuer, the developer of the condos. 
 The condos, at 1,700 to 1,800 square feet, sell for $550,000 to $1 million. Since they were offered in late 2005, 22 of the 32 units have been sold.
 Burlington prides itself on careful development. ''Vermont has a reputation for its rigorous permitting process,'' said Jay Canning, a local hotel developer and operator and one of the owners of the hotel, which is franchised by the Marriott Corporation. ''You have to be very determined to get something done.'' 
 Mr. Canning and his partners bought the property in 2001 for $1.8 million but could not raise enough money to finance the project fully, so they asked the city for assistance. 
 ''When they came to us we said 100 percent we're with you,'' said Mr. Monte, who devised an unusual financing arrangement with the Westlake developers. 
 The city of Burlington bought the land and held it in a development agreement for three years to give the developers time to get permits and financing. The city invested $4.5 million in parking infrastructure, creating 58 spaces underneath the complex and adding two more decks, with 278 spaces, to the existing parking garage on Cherry Street, for a total of 678 spaces. Beyond the additional public parking, the city is expected to earn up to $100,000 a year in tax revenue. 
 ''The city was absolutely instrumental,'' Mr. Scheuer said. 
 The Courtyard brand caters to business travelers, but the developers built a more pampered environment than one might ordinarily expect in a business hotel. William Caligari, who created interiors at Canyon Ranch spas, designed the hotel's rooms. ''We wanted a custom upscale design,'' Mr. Canning said. The bathrooms feature cherry cabinets, Kohler faucets and granite counters and tub seats and were ''an opportunity to make a statement and differentiate ourselves,'' he said.
 There are about 20 hotels in nearby South Burlington and a total of 3,000 rooms countywide. The Marriott has gone up next door to the 256-room Wyndham Hotel, and Mr. Canning and Tim Shea, vice president of the Lake Champlain Regional Chamber of Commerce, said they hoped the new hotel would help attract more conventions and conferences.
 Development along the waterfront in this city of 38,000 is often fraught with lengthy public input. ''We have a very engaged citizenry,'' said Sharon Bushor, a City Council member. 
 Many residents feel that they are entitled in perpetuity to water views -- ''so anything on the water's edge is going to have tremendous public scrutiny,'' said Melinda Moulton, co-owner of Main Street Landing, a local developer. Ms. Moulton's most recent downtown project, with her partner, Lisa Steele, is a 60,000-square-foot building at College and Lake Streets. It includes retail and office space and a performing-arts center. It opened in July 2005 after a three-year delay because of a court dispute with their condo neighbors over the possible disappearance of water views. (The building design did not change.)
 To balance the competing interests of private developers who want ''laissez-faire development'' and the ''environmentalists who want no development at all,'' according to Mr. Monte, the city divided the area. Land to the west of Lake Street near the water's edge is preserved for public use, while development is permitted east of Lake Street, where the new Marriott and the Westlake condos are situated. 
 The waterfront and its views, Mr. Monte said, have become ''the city's jewel.'' Waterfront Park is the center of cultural activity, particularly in warmer months. Throughout the summer, annual waterfront events like the Green Mountain Chew Chew Festival, a local food festival, and the Burlington International Jazz Festival lure visitors. 
 The remaining waterfront eyesore is the Moran Plant, a former coal-fired electric plant at the northern edge of Waterfront Park. Except for a nonprofit sailing center that occupies a fraction of the space, the building has been vacant for 20 years. 
 In March 2006, the city received more than 10,000 responses to a survey of residents on what to do with the site, Ms. Bushor said. The survey's results, and several lively public hearings, suggested that most residents thought the Moran Plant should be used for a mixed-use project accessible to the public. 
 The latest vision, Mr. Monte said, encompasses a range of uses, including an outdoor skating rink, a rooftop restaurant and a museum. There is no timetable for development, and the city is reviewing the public input and determining the next steps. 
 Ms. Bushor said she believed that the incremental approach to development had served the community well. Because once land is developed, she said, ''it's gone.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of Lake Champlain from the rooftop terrace of the new hotel.
 A public-private partnership in Burlington, Vt., helped build Westlake, a project on Lake Champlain that includes a Marriott hotel and 32 condominiums. (Photographs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); LAKES (90%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); NAVIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Area Planning and Renewal; Geographic Profiles; Hotels and Motels; Housing; Condominiums

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (86%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Marriott Corp

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (86%); HST (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (86%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (86%)

PERSON: Wendy Knight

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (93%) VERMONT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Burlington (Vt); Lake Champlain

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



141 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: How Statistics Can Help Save Failing Hearts

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Ray Grefe woke up on June 17, 2005, the day before Father's Day and six days before his 55th birthday, with a sharp pain in his shoulder blades. It was 4 in the morning. His wife, Carol Lei, was asleep. 
 So he took a double dose of painkillers -- aspirin plus Tylenol -- and went back to bed. When he woke up again at 7:30 and told Ms. Lei that he was still in pain, she suggested that he skip the family outing to the zoo that morning and go to the nearby St. Mary's Hospital to have his shoulder checked out. They figured he'd pulled a muscle the previous day, probably while rolling around with his 4- and 5-year-old daughters or hitting golf balls at a driving range.
 The family was in the car, just a few blocks from their San Francisco house, when the pain suddenly shot into Mr. Grefe's arm and he began sweating. In as relaxed a voice as he could muster, hoping not to alarm his daughters, Mr. Grefe said to his wife, ''I'm having a heart attack.'' 
 St. Mary's, their usual hospital, wasn't the closest one to their home, so Ms. Lei instead drove to the University of California, San Francisco, Medical Center, just minutes away. Time would turn out to be crucial: the primary artery feeding Mr. Grefe's heart was entirely blocked.
 The hospital where he ended up, known as U.C.S.F., is one of the top medical institutions in the world. Three of its researchers have won the Nobel Prize in the last two decades. It's the sort of place that should be able to handle heart attacks. 
 For years, the doctors who worked there thought they were doing exactly that. They hadn't actually looked at the data, but they assumed they were doing a good job of moving patients quickly into a catheterization lab and opening up their arteries to get blood flowing again. The attitude, recalled Dr. Robert M. Wachter, chief of the medical service, was: ''We're U.C.S.F.; we're smart; we do fine.''
 But in 2002, when they realized that hospital regulators would soon be releasing the data to the public, they started paying attention to it. Shockingly, heart attack patients spent almost three hours on average at U.C.S.F. before their arteries were unblocked. Some had their electrocardiogram languish on a clipboard in the emergency room while doctors dealt with other patients. Others got a diagnosis quickly but had to wait until a cardiologist and the medical technicians arrived at the hospital. 
 To be fair, U.C.S.F. was faster than most hospitals, but its delays were still almost certainly killing some people and leaving others disabled. Patients have the best chance of recovery if their arteries are opened within two hours, research has shown. At one meeting to discuss the hospital's performance, Brigid Ide, a nurse and U.C.S.F. executive, said to her colleagues, ''This is O.K., but if this were your father, is this the time you would want?''
 Prodded by the threat of public embarrassment, doctors and nurses got to work. Dr. Thomas A. Ports, a top cardiologist, began carrying two pagers, one for general matters and another that would go off only when someone had come to the hospital with a heart attack. The emergency room made a new rule that a staff member had to get a doctor's signature on an electrocardiogram as soon as it came out. A bright red toolbox, labeled as the heart attack box, now sits on a shelf in the E.R., filled with basics like aspirin and nitroglycerine.
 By 2003, the hospital had cut its response time to about 90 minutes, which was where it was when Mr. Grefe arrived in June 2005. He was whisked from the E.R. to the operating table. There, doctors opened the artery that had been completely blocked.
 The kind of heart attack he had is known as the ''widow maker,'' yet on Thursday of the following week, five days later, he was making phone calls for his job as an account executive at Navteq, the company that sells map data on Mapquest, Google and other Web sites. ''Obviously, I was extremely lucky,'' he told me last week. ''The experience certainly could have been a lot worse. Let's put it that way.''
 In the current, long-overdue debate about health care, the focus is almost entirely on health insurance. And there is no question that the country would be better off if everyone were covered. But the gaps in insurance aren't the only problem with the medical system. They are not even the biggest problem. 
 Just think about what was happening at U.C.S.F. Most of the heart attack patients there had health insurance, but they were still getting substandard care. The same is true today about diabetes and hypertension. Only about a third of people with those conditions receive the care that's needed to manage their case.
 The most encouraging thing about the U.C.S.F. story is that it points out a way to improve health care that avoids many of the thorniest political debates: regulators should force hospitals to report more information. In 2005-6, about 67 percent of patients across the country had their arteries unblocked within two hours, up from 62 percent a couple of years earlier, according to Medicare, which posts the numbers on the Web. 
 Releasing data does not solve every problem, of course. Since its initial burst of progress, U.C.S.F. hasn't gotten any faster at opening arteries; in 2005-6, 77 percent of heart attack patients there received treatment in less than two hours. With many other kinds of care, it's difficult to come up with the right performance measures and to make adjustments for the mix of incoming patients.
 But it's not as difficult as doctors and hospital administrators sometimes suggest. (Not all of them are keen on accountability.) In fact, since the early 1990s, New York State has released death rates for heart surgery -- and those rates have fallen far faster than the national average during that time. Pennsylvania now requires its hospitals to disclose how many of their patients acquire hospital infections. 
 There is far, far more that could be reported: survival rates for cancer, strokes, cystic fibrosis and a host of other conditions; measures of neonatal intensive care; complication rates from Caesareans. ''You can find out a lot more about buying a washing machine than buying health care,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who is pushing health care reform.
 The funny thing is that while patients remain largely ignorant of the information that is already available, it has still inspired hospitals to make big changes. But maybe that shouldn't be too surprising. Doctors and nurses, like most everyone else, apparently care what their peers think of them. As Dr. Wachter says, ''I think people underestimate the role of pride.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ray Grefe with his daughter Danielle Lei, in San Francisco. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 At left, Carol Lei and Ray Grefe with daughters, Danielle Lei, left, and Nikki Lei, in San Francisco. Dr. Thomas A. Ports, above, studying data. (Photographs by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Rating the Hospitals''In 2005, Hospital Compare (www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov), a government-run Web site, began publishing information about the quality of hospital care. Below is a portion of the data on heart attack treatment. Some of the hospitals listed here have improved care since this data was collected, according to officials.Percent of heart attack patients whose blocked arteries were treated within two hours of arrival.BEST PERFORMING IN EACH CITYCHICAGO: Northwestern Memorial Hospital -- 93 % BOSTON*: Boston Medical Center -- 92LOS ANGELES: Cedars-Sinai Medical Center -- 91PHOENIX*: Mayo Clinic Hospital -- 85SAN FRANCISCO*: Alta Bates Summit Medical Center, Summit Campus -- 84HOUSTON: Memorial Hermann Memorial City -- 80NEW YORK: City Hospital Center at Elmhurst -- 76WASHINGTON*: Washington Adventist Hospital -- 64Inova Alexandria Hospital (tie) -- 64National average -- 67 %WORST PERFORMING IN EACH CITYCHICAGO: University of Chicago Hospitals -- 30 %BOSTON*: Mount Auburn Hospital -- 63LOS ANGELES: LAC+USC Medical Center -- 26PHOENIX*: Phoenix Baptist Hospital -- 27SAN FRANCISCO*: Doctors Medical Center, San Pablo / Pinole -- 63HOUSTON: The Methodist Hospital -- 26NEW YORK: St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital -- 48WASHINGTON*: Prince George's Hospital Center -- 50National average -- 67 %All data are for April 2005 through March 2006 . Includes only hospitals with at least 25 relevant patients during that time period.*Includes hospitals in surrounding area.(Source by Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (89%); HEART DISEASE (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (87%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CARDIOLOGY (71%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%) Heart; Hospitals

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); MAYO CLINIC (59%); CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER (59%) University of California Medical Center (San Francisco)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



142 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Some Like It Hot (He Likes It Steaming)

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Tales From the Torrid ZoneTravels in the Deep TropicsBy Alexander Frater 384 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.95.
 It's the heat and the humidity. Alexander Frater settles that question early on in ''Tales From the Torrid Zone'' as he wanders, in seven-league boots, across the earth's fat, sweaty midsection, swatting flies and mosquitoes all the way. That's not even the half of it. Along with the palm trees and the beaches and the relentless heat, the tropics also feature ''extreme weather, geological instability and a whole host of ghastly afflictions,'' Mr. Frater writes.
And yet he counts himself a ''tropophiliac,'' a lover of warm, wet countries, where disease, poverty, political chaos, decay and inertia are the rule rather than the exception. He cannot help himself. 
 ''I sat and listened to a fitful southerly trade leafing through palm fronds, heard the occasional whump of a falling coconut and knew again the pleasing sense of being parked in one of the world's lay-bys,'' he writes after a hard day in Fiji. ''Those of us born in the tropics have lassitude bred into our very bones, and now, yielding to it, I felt the old waypoints -- sunrise and sunset, the rhythm of the tides -- quietly reimpose themselves.''
 This is clear evidence of what the French call the coup de bambou, a mild mania for the tropics that grips Mr. Frater and animates his diverting, loose-limbed tour of the earth's hot zones.
 As a travel writer for The Observer in London, Mr. Frater has set foot in some 70 of the 169 countries and territories that lie wholly or partly between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, the two belts on either side of the Equator. Some he counts as home. The son and grandson of Presbyterian missionaries, originally from Scotland, he grew up in present-day Vanuatu, and at least half of his book deals with the islands scattered like loose change across the South Pacific. 
 His unstructured itinerary also takes him up the Amazon, down the Irrawaddy, across the ocean to Zanzibar and onward to dozens of other remote locations, where he observes, describes and ponders. Part memoir, part travelogue, ''Tales From the Torrid Zone'' is a pleasing grab bag of a book, a jumble of funny encounters, strange sights, forgotten history and really bad food. 
 Mr. Frater, a genial tour guide and a stylish writer, makes excellent company. He maintains his composure on decrepit airplanes spewing oil and gasoline. He dines complacently on stewed flying fox. Best of all, he keeps his eyes open. In an airport in Vanuatu, while conversing with a manic American, he spies an elegantly dressed woman approaching the check-in counter with a sleeping piglet in a basket. When the piglet wakes up, ''making noises like a fire alarm,'' its owner calmly pops a Ferrero Rocher chocolate in its mouth. 
 In a bar on the island of Paama, he looks up long enough from his book to take in a terrific fight around the pool table, which he recounts economically.
 ''A huge woman grasped a billiard cue in a two-handed axman's grip, and, as if splitting a log, brought it down on the bald head of an old, wrinkled man,'' he writes. ''He went 'Ungh!' and slumped to his knees. Both sexes began trading blows, the females punching harder and meaner and lower. Soon the males began limping back to the table where the women, impassive, joined them; quietly they resumed their game.''
 Mr. Frater can listen too. On the island of Pentecost, a local entrepreneur extols the virtues of the local beverage made from kava root. Drinking kava, he claims, has allowed his grandfather to live to the age of 200. That means that Grandpa is almost old enough to have seen Captain Cook, Mr. Frater points out. ''I think he has mentioned him,'' the man replies coolly. 
 In Burma a plaintive pop singer captivates Mr. Frater. ''Her anguish had a kind of Wagnerian resonance,'' he writes. The song, he finds out, is ''Mummy, My Car Has Broken Down.'' Rain comes off the leaves of the palm tree, he observes, ''in an interesting tonal way.''
 Mr. Frater takes his comedy where he can find it. As often as not, he turns up in the midst of lethal political conflicts or surveying the miseries of failed postcolonial states crippled by disease, poor education, bad roads and bleak economic prospects. Palm trees are not enough. 
 One of his more fascinating chapters describes, with a certain relish, several of the 40 tropical diseases that flourish in the torrid zone. He listens in fascination as a French doctor tells of transporting a woman to a hospital with an ax in her head. 
 More often than not, corrupt leaders preside over misery with serene indifference. Mr. Frater pays a visit to one of them, the King of Tonga, who speaks vaguely of earning billions by extracting natural gas from seawater. ''He wore a gold Rolex on either wrist and, occasionally, would glance at both to indicate I was asking dumb questions in two time zones, or lapse into one of his famous transcendental silences,'' Mr. Frater writes. The audience is brief. 
 Mr. Frater has a wonderful plan for a tropical afterlife. He would like his ashes to be buried under a palm tree. ''That would not only help nourish one of the world's most bountiful trees, but perhaps even allow me to wander eternally through the Torrid Zone,'' he writes. 
 Fleets of bobbing coconuts go on voyages lasting for years, riding the ocean currents for thousands of miles before washing up on dry land. Mr. Frater's best trip may lie ahead of him. He certainly deserves it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexander Frater (Photo by Anne Miller)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); LITERATURE (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: William Grimes; Alexander Frater

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) EQUATOR (79%) VANUATU (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FIJI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



143 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 2; The Business of Green; RENEWABLE ENERGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: What's So Bad About Big?

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
''SMALL is beautiful,'' wrote the economist E. F. Schumacher almost 35 years ago. In most areas of the economy, he reasoned, production had become too big and too centralized.
 But he might have been wrong about the subject he knew most about: energy. When it comes to alternative ways of generating power, big may be better.
Wind, solar and other renewable-energy technologies that were once considered more appropriate for single homes or small communities are reaching levels of scale and centralizing that were formerly the province of coal- and gas-fired plants and nuclear reactors. In other words, green is going giant. 
 The companies that are building or dreaming up large projects argue that there are economies of scale to be gained. 
 In the desert north of Tucson, Arizona Public Service, an electric utility, is using an array of mirrors to concentrate sunlight and heat mineral oil up to 550 degrees; the heat vaporizes a liquid hydrocarbon, which runs a generator to make electricity. 
 But this is no rooftop operation. There are six rows of mirrors, each nearly a quarter-mile long, totaling nearly 100,000 square feet. The project produces one megawatt of power -- enough to run a hospital or a large shopping center -- but the company that installed it, now called Acciona Solar Power (formerly Solargenix), expects to open a 350-acre plant in Boulder City, Nev., soon, producing 64 megawatts with similar technology. And Arizona Public Service is one of about a half-dozen utilities that is considering a joint project to build a 250-megawatt plant based on the same technology. 
 Such projects run counter to some ideas of how alternative energy should be developed. Jeremy Rifkin, the author and futurist who believes that millions of people will soon be generating their own hydrogen from renewable energy, said that waste was built into large central projects because of electrical transmission losses.
 ''If you go and put it in the desert and bring it back in, you lose 7 to 9 percent on the way,'' he said. 
 More to the point, Mr. Rifkin said, home-grown energy is going to be cheaper. ''It's a question of who owns and controls it at the end of the line,'' he said. ''If you own it on your own, it's going to be at a cheaper price than if the utility company is going to sell it to you.''
 But it is not just corporations that are finding that bigger may be better. 
 Hull, Mass., is about as far from an oil or gas well as it is possible to get in the United States. Its municipal utility decided in the early 1980s to build a wind turbine, making an asset from the strong breeze coming off the ocean north of Boston. The machine it built could generate 40 kilowatts, enough for a handful of homes.
 Five years ago, Hull tried again, still wanting to cut energy costs and also the emissions of greenhouse gases that might one day cause the Atlantic Ocean, which surrounds the town on three sides, to creep up the beaches. It built a wind machine 16 times larger, 660 kilowatts. While the 1985 turbine was on a structure that looked a bit like a ham-radio operator's antenna, the new one, named Hull 1, was on a 150-foot tower.
 But it was too small. Last year the town installed Hull 2, which at 1.8 megawatts is three times larger. Now Hull is considering four new turbines that can produce 3.6 megawatts each. ''The small one we have, purely aesthetically, is kind of an ugly thing,'' said John B. Murdock, manager of the municipal electric system. With their slow-moving, graceful blades, he said, ''the big ones are much more attractive.''
 They also make better economic sense, he said. Earlier this year, the town put up a tiny turbine, 1,800 watts, as an educational tool, for $15,000. If 1,000 families in the area put up such machines, they would have the same output as Hull 2, at a cost of $15 million. Hull 2 cost about $3 million.
 Hull's economics are being repeated around New England and the world. Farther down the Massachusetts coast in Nantucket Sound, for example, entrepreneurs are trying to build the Cape Wind project, 130 turbines producing 3.6 megawatts each. 
 At Siemens Power Generation, which builds equipment for wind turbines and other generators, Randy Zwirn, the chief executive, said that the only limit to wind-turbine size might be how long a blade could be transported to the site. The company's 3.6-megawatt machine uses a blade that is about 175 feet long.
 Other companies want to build even bigger wind turbines with capacities as high as seven megawatts. A larger machine would be even higher -- perhaps 250 feet -- and could take advantage of the fact that winds are 20 percent stronger at 250 feet than at 150 feet, said Dr. Mark Z. Jacobson, an associate professor at Stanford's department of civil and environmental engineering. 
 But in Nantucket Sound, 3.6-megawatt turbines are considered big enough. On a windy day, the 130 machines would produce as much power as a modest-size plant burning coal or natural gas.
 There is certainly no point in making the project smaller, said Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for Cape Wind.
 ''You've got costs that include staging, marine construction, placing an electric transmission infrastructure below the seabed, acquisition of maintenance vessels, use of a port facility, spare parts, storage, manning an operations center, insurance and taxes,'' he said. 
 For many of those items, if the project were 50 percent larger or 50 percent smaller, the costs would vary little. ''These are things that you're going to have to do, whether it's a very small or a very large offshore wind farm,'' Mr. Rodgers said. ''The best bang for the buck is go to large.'' 
 While mirrors in the desert cannot operate at the rooftop scale, the kind that can, photovoltaic cells, which turn sunlight into energy, may also work better on a big scale, experts say. 
 A single-home installation is fine, they say, but not cost-effective. It can become so through large-scale deployment of the kind envisioned by Bud Annan, who was the solar program director at the Department of Energy during the Clinton administration. 
 Mr. Annan said that the cost of a rooftop solar project was divided between the manufacturing of solar cells and installation. Some progress has been made in reducing manufacturing costs, but both parts of the equation must come down in price, he said.
 Now living in Scottsdale, Ariz., Mr. Annan is working with a utility and local real estate developers to try to incorporate solar roofs into 10,000 new houses, all at once. That way, he said, the installers can go from house to house the way carpenters, plumbers and electricians do. ''He can standardize his installation, and that whole second half of the equation becomes more manageable for him,'' Mr. Annan said.
 Clusters of houses might share a bank of batteries, so that they could guarantee a steady power output. Power that a utility can count on is worth more than power that is unpredictable. Solar energy that is connected to a battery system is available even after the sun sets, making it sell for a higher price.
 Roger Little, chief executive of the Spire Corporation, a solar cell manufacturer near Boston, said his systems cost $7 or $8 per watt of installed capacity when put on rooftops, which means that the equipment needed to light a 100-watt bulb would cost $700 to $800. Half is for the cells and half is for the rest of the system, including mounting brackets and external wiring.
 Mr. Little said he could lower the price to $3.60, but that the first step would have to be replacing typical solar panels, which produce about 160 watts of electricity each, with a 1,000-watt panel. The big panel would require less support material per watt than the smaller ones, he said.
 But that panel would be 200 pounds, too heavy to haul up to a roof. The solution, he said, is to install it on the ground, in a big flat spot of desert -- which, by the way, would be a wonderful place to build the solar-cell factory, cutting delivery costs to zero. And the bigger the installation, the lower the cost, per watt, of the other equipment required, he said.
 Mr. Little is negotiating with the Tucson Electric Company to build a factory in Arizona that would produce 100 megawatts of cells a year, and run it for 10 years or so. Other cities and companies are considering similar ideas. Mr. Little said that at some point his project would turn into a ''breeder,'' its electric production paying for its operation. 
 His company already runs factories that make 50 megawatts of new cells a year. The viability of the project depends mostly on whether Congress extends the production tax credit given to renewable and nuclear energy, he said.
 Arizona Public Service, which operates the solar generator north of Tucson, seems to be on a campaign to show that there is no green approach that does not work well on a corporate scale. Last year, it started raising algae, feeding them carbon dioxide from a natural-gas-fired power plant, Red Hawk, west of Phoenix. It used the algae to make biodiesel, a vehicle fuel that is more commonly made from soybeans or corn. The company is now installing bigger equipment to test the process on a larger scale. 
 Even for renewable energy like heating with wood (an idea that has been around for much longer than the term ''renewable''), the scale is growing. For example, the University of South Carolina would like to reduce its carbon footprint and lower its natural-gas bill of $6.5 million a year. So this spring it plans to open a plant that will use wood scraps to make electricity, and use steam from the system's waste heat to warm the campus.
 This is not some wood-fired boiler. It is an $18 million gasification project that will heat the wood, mostly chips and bark, to produce a flammable gas, which will be burned in a turbine that resembles a jet engine. And the university will not run it on clippings from trees at the Columbia campus; it will take 14 tractor-trailer loads a day, about 55,000 tons a year.
 Because the wood is gasified but not burned, the system, which is similar to one used in Burlington, Vt., produces less nitrogen oxides and less soot than a boiler would, said Jonathan S. Rhone, chief of the Nexterra Energy Corporation of Vancouver, British Columbia, which built the gasifier. But being that clean requires an industrial-size system. 
 There is another reason that it is not the kind of project that works on a small basis: it will take about 14 years to pay for itself. ''We've been here 200 years,'' said Helen Zeigler, the university business manager. ''We can afford to make investments like this.'' A 14-year payback would never work on a family budget, she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LINES IN THE SAND -- A solar-power installation in the Arizona desert uses 100,000 square feet of mirrors, a change from the days when renewable-energy sources were considered most appropriate on a small scale. (Photo by Chris Richards for The New York Times)(pg. H1)
REFLECTIONS -- Arizona Public Service's solar plant produces one megawatt of power, enough to run a shopping center. The utility is considering a much larger solar project. (Photo by Chris Richards for The New York Times)
GATHERING THE GUST -- Hull 2, the third wind turbine in Hull, Mass. The town may build four more, even larger. (Photo by C. J. Gunther for The New York Times)
FUEL FROM THE DEEP -- Cathy Clifton, a biology technician, monitoring algae at an Arizona Public Service plant. The algae are fed carbon dioxide and used to make biodiesel. (Photo by Chris Richards for The New York Times)
 GRAND IDEAS -- Roger Little, chief executive of the Spire Corporation, which makes solar cells, says there are economic benefits to using bigger solar panels. (Photo by C. J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. H8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); WRITERS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%) Electric Light and Power; Solar Energy; Turbines; Wind; Special Sections

COMPANY: ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



144 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Green; CONSUMERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Attention Shoppers: Carbon Offsets in Aisle 6

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
ARE you willing to spend more so that electricity will be generated from animal manure instead of coal? If you live in Vermont, the public utility there will use your money to buy ''cow power'' made on local farms. 
 Are you buying groceries at Whole Foods? You can pick up a $5 or $15 ''wind power card'' as well. The money goes to Renewable Choice Energy, which uses it to support wind farms.
Taking a vacation? Book it through Travelocity, pay $10 to $40 more, and Travelocity will give the money to the Conservation Fund to plant enough trees to offset your share of the carbon that your plane, rental car and hotel stay will produce. 
 Call it Phase 2 of the corporate response to global warming. Companies that have been touting their own environmental responsibility are now saying to their customers, ''If you are concerned about global warming, don't just put our money where your mouth is, put up some of your own.'' 
 In the environmental community, the trend is playing to mixed reviews. Environmentalists fear that companies are ''absolving themselves of guilt for making gas guzzlers or being energy hogs,'' as Daniel F. Becker, the director of the Sierra Club's global warming program, put it. They fear that consumers who ease their consciences by writing a check may be less inclined to turn down the thermostat, car pool or weatherproof their homes. 
 Actually, most of the companies that are charging consumers for green energy have cleaned up their own acts. ''We've got solar roofs, we buy biomass, we do carbon credits, we compost waste and recycle our cardboard,'' said Michael Besancon, the chairman of Whole Foods Market's green mission task force. ''Why not make it easy and seamless for customers to be green, too?''
 Similarly, Dell has been buying renewable energy and offering free recycling of computers. Soon it will have a program in which customers can pay an extra $2 for a notebook computer or $6 for a desktop. Dell will funnel the cash to the Conservation Fund and the Carbonfund, which will plant trees that absorb carbon dioxide. The idea is to offset emissions from producing the electricity used to run the computer. 
 ''We've taken responsibility for design, manufacturing and end of life disposal, and now we're offering consumers a convenient way to offset the climate implications of their usage,'' said Tod Arbogast, Dell's director of sustainable business.
 But the concern that donations will create complacency is not as easily addressed. ''Helping consumers buy offsets is feel-good environmentalism that lets people duck out of responsibility for changing their behavior,'' said Michael J. Brune, the executive director of Rainforest Action Network.
 Mr. Becker of the Sierra Club is blunter: ''People view offsets as papal indulgences that let them make environmentally bad decisions.'' 
 It is not a hollow concern. Sian Mooney, a professor at Boise State University who has written about the economic implications of climate change, said that her home was not well insulated, she did not buy green energy and she did not always rent ''green'' cars. She spends $100 to $150 on carbon credits each year. 
 ''It gives me 'warm and fuzzies' for doing something good,'' Ms. Mooney said. ''But the way to get real carbon reductions is if people like me cut back on airplane flights and such.''
 Most environmentalists concede that consumers are unlikely to make radical changes. But many also contend that the programs let consumers vote with their pocketbooks for carbon constraints. 
 ''If the public shows that it cares enough to pay extra for greenness, it just might spur Congress to finally pass legislation,'' said Eugene Linden, author of ''The Winds of Change,'' which traces the effects of climate change on past civilizations.
 The show of public support might also speed up the development of alternate energy sources, said Robert A. Sheppard, deputy director of corporate programs for Clean Air-Cool Planet, an environmental education group with a guide to Web sites selling carbon offsets. ''If consumers buy enough renewable energy credits, it will eventually expand the market for green energy,'' he said. 
 That may be happening already. More utilities are giving residential customers the ability to pay extra for green power -- electricity that is generated by windmills, solar cells or animal waste. They are not suggesting that the actual electrons flowing to the consumer's home were generated from renewable sources, but that utilities will use the money to add green power to their grids. 
 In some cases, they charge more per kilowatt hour; in others, they charge a flat fee for such energy. For example, the Sacramento Municipal Utility District gives residential customers the choice of paying an additional $6 a month for all-green energy, or $3 for half-green.
 ''When we set this up, the issue was energy independence, but curbing global warming has become just as important,'' said Michael Zannakis, who runs the program for the utility. 
 Some utilities are including a line on the monthly bill that details the carbon emissions that most likely resulted from a customer's energy use. A few suggest that customers tack on money to their check, which the utility will channel to projects like wind farms to lower the carbon load.
 Pacific Gas and Electric, which gets half its energy from clean sources like hydropower, will soon begin ClimateSmart. The program will tell consumers how many pounds of carbon their household was responsible for, and suggest an amount, typically less than $5 a month, to add to their bill. Pacific Gas, which is adding nearly $1.5 million of its own money to neutralize its own carbon footprint, will use the funds to buy -- and take out of circulation -- carbon credits from projects in California.
 Californians could do that on their own by going to a Web site or brokers that sell carbon offsets. Yet a survey by Lippincott Mercer showed that many consumers did not buy carbon offset credits because they considered it too much trouble to go to third-party sites. 
 The Pacific Gas program will let consumers pay for their credits and electricity at the same time. Just as important, ''We'll have plenty of smart lawyers negotiating the contracts, and making sure that every penny of our customers' money is going for sequestering greenhouse gases,'' said Wendy Pulling, the director of environmental policy. 
 Unlike utilities, consumer companies generally do not pay for their go-green programs. 
 Hertz charges customers who want to reserve a fuel-efficient ''green'' car an extra $3 to $5 a day to guarantee that Hertz will not trade them up to a gas guzzler if there are no green cars on the lot. Richard D. Broome, vice president of corporate affairs, said that the incremental cost covered the logistics of ensuring that the cars were available. 
 Similarly, Ikea will begin charging 5 cents for the throwaway plastic bags it used to give away; the money will go to American Forests to plant trees. The reusable blue bag that it once sold for 99 cents will be just 59 cents, Ikea's cost. ''We go through 90 million bags in the United States each year, and they just wind up littering the planet,'' said Mona Liss, an Ikea spokeswoman. 
 Some companies are looking for ways to make money by easing consumer guilt. This year, G.E. Energy Financial Services and the AES Corporation formed a partnership to develop greenhouse-gas emission projects and to sell the resulting carbon credits to other companies. ''That could certainly include retailers, who might sell the credits to theirown customers,'' said Kevin Walsh, a managing director of the General Electric unit. 
 That is assuming that consumers want to buy. Most of the programs are too new to gauge whether people will do so. And in the business community, skeptics abound. 
 ''I just don't see an awful lot of people ponying up for sustainable products,'' said Paul V. Tebo, an environmental consultant who was DuPont's vice president for health, safety and environment until 2004. Neither does William F. Banholzer, chief technology officer of the Dow Chemical Company. Consumers have long professed concern about chemicals leaching from landfills, he noted, yet Dow could not get customers to pay more for biodegradable flame retardants.
 ''If consumers really cared enough to pay a premium for green, everyone would buy fluorescent light bulbs and diesel-engine or hybrid cars,'' he said. 
 Still, the chances that companies will back away from the programs are slim. ''Companies are recognizing that as long as price and quality are good, a green pitch can push the customer to their side,'' said Andrew Winston, author of ''Green to Gold,'' a book that details how companies turn environmental issues to their competitive advantage. 
 Environmentalists note that the let-the-consumers-pay programs might have a beneficial long-term effect. As Eileen Claussen, president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, put it, ''These programs get the idea across that individuals are neither blameless nor helpless, and can really make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: CASH AND CARRY -- At Ikea, its 99-cent blue reusable bags will soon be 59 cents. But the free plastic bags they pack your goods in will be a nickel
the money will go to planting trees. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. H9)
 REUSABLE -- Asha Reed-Jones, 8, with an Ikea bag. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. H1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); BIOMASS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (77%); TRENDS (76%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (76%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (74%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (74%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); RAIN FORESTS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Weather; Global Warming; Recycling of Waste Materials; Containers and Packaging; Computers and the Internet; Special Sections; Waste Materials and Disposal; Shopping Bags; Carbon Dioxide; Retail Stores and Trade; Paper and Pulp; Plastics

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASHA (59%); CONSERVATION FUND (57%); SIERRA CLUB (55%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



145 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Green; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: It Takes More Than Veggies to Make a Kitchen Green

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
PETER HOFFMAN runs Savoy, a restaurant in Manhattan that specializes in seasonal food from local farms. But for as much attention as he pays to organic food and the politics of sustainable agriculture, another aspect of environmentalism eludes him. He has not found a way to keep the kitchen both clean and green.
 Not that he hasn't tried. Once a week, he donates the used oil from his deep fryer to Michael Yessi of Flying Pigs Farms. Mr. Yessi, in turn, uses it to run the diesel engine on the 16-foot box truck he drives to and from his farm in upstate New York.
But like many other restaurant owners on a quest to find ways to handle the garbage and mess of a professional kitchen while reducing the effects on the environment, Mr. Hoffman is still searching. He has tried numerous nontoxic and biodegradable cleaning products, but, he said, ''It's an ongoing headache.'' 
 ''Some of them are good and can do it, and some of it can't really cut it for the level we need to be working at,'' he said. 
 Keeping a restaurant kitchen green is a new focus at both high-end restaurants like Savoy and less expensive chains. Not only is there a search for safer cleaners, but also for new ways to compost kitchen waste and save electricity. Even takeout containers can be friendlier to the environment when they are made from corn or pulverized sugar-cane fibers instead of petrochemical foam.
 ''People are finally ready,'' said Michael Oshman, who founded the nonprofit Green Restaurant Association in 1990. 
 The association, based in Sharon, Mass., helps restaurants figure out how to be more environmentally responsible and ultimately secure its certification. Among the steps it encourages: using energy-saving light bulbs, water- and energy-conservation programs, and napkins made from unbleached paper. It insists that its certified restaurants do not use polystyrene foam products. 
 By this spring, his group will have certified almost 300 restaurants as meeting its standards of energy conservation and environmental stewardship. ''A lot of restaurant owners are seeing that this is good, cost-effective business, but also that there is now a strong consumer base that values this,'' Mr. Oshman said.
 In San Francisco, greenhome.com researches and sells products -- from pest-control aids to baby clothes -- that are easy on nature. ''For seven years I have been banging my head, and all of a sudden everyone is doing it,'' said Lawrence Axil Comras, greenhome's president. ''Now they get it.''
 Both the Green Restaurant Association and greenhome.com try to allay concerns about cost by showing how extra spending in one area can be offset by savings in others. Installing additional insulation on a water heater or buying compact fluorescent light bulbs can save a third in energy costs after the initial investment is paid off, which can come as soon as a couple of months. Those savings can help with the added costs of buying more food locally and using takeout containers that are not made from plastic. 
 ''At the end of the day, they need to have it justified financially,'' Mr. Oshman said.
 And the products must work. Early forays into disposable spoons made from corn-based plastics melted in hot soup. Some biodegradable cleaning products have also been disappointing, although there are more cleaners that use plant-based ingredients like soy and citrus oils, and other products that use enzymes or hydrogen peroxide to perform the demanding tasks in professional kitchens. 
 Many are safe to use on surfaces that food comes in contact with. Although not all restaurant cleaning chemicals are necessarily bad for the environment, less caustic products can be better for employees, especially those who are sensitive to chemicals. 
 But switching to those cleaners presents headaches that changing light bulbs or setting up a composting bin does not. Some companies are locked into long-term contracts for cleaning supplies and can't change. For others, there is a psychological barrier.
 ''We have a restaurant owner right now that doesn't like the way a product looks,'' Mr. Oshman said. ''The pricing was great, but the restaurant industry is so socialized to using the blue chemical for this or the pink chemical for that. There's an education piece to do on the cleaning chemicals, definitely.''
 Michael Eisenberg is a senior vice president of Guardian Service Industries, a $100 million company that began cleaning windows in 1914 and now cleans 50 buildings in the Northeast, among them the Chrysler Building and several corporate cafeterias. He recently went to all-green cleaning products, but he said finding the right ones took time.
 ''We've tried tons of products,'' he said. ''I've got closets filled with them.'' He favors something called H2Orange2 from Envirox, which can be diluted to levels appropriate for different jobs. It contains a biodegradable surfactant, orange oil and hydrogen peroxide. Mr. Eisenberg says he likes how it cleans, but not everyone on his crew does. 
 ''All my cleaners all want to use Windex,'' he said. ''They think because they can't smell it, it can't be working. But green doesn't smell.''
 Finding the right cleaner is one of the last steps in Le Pain Quotidien's quest to go green. The company, which has 60 restaurants worldwide, including 12 in New York City and 8 in Los Angeles, was recently certified green by the Green Restaurant Association.
 ''It seemed sort of ironic to have hand soaps that have foaming agents when we are using reclaimed wood and have linseed oil on the chairs and tables,'' said Patrick Jenkins, vice president for operations. 
 For hand soap in the bathroom, the company has tested Dr. Bronner's Magic Soap, a favorite from the late 1960s that is made from olive oil but tends to clump in the dispensers. The company has also tried some Aveda products. And it is in the testing phase with enzyme- and oxygen-based cleaners for other parts of the restaurants.
 Whatever cleaner it ends up with will be nontoxic, phosphate-free, petroleum-free, 100 percent biodegradable and free of volatile organic compounds, Mr. Jenkins said.
 ''In some ways there's no looking back once you start looking at everything through that green filter,'' he said. ''All costs aren't economic. There are costs that are social and more ecological.''
 At the Cliff House, a historic building overlooking the Pacific Ocean in San Francisco, creating a greener kitchen was a goal of a two-year, $19 million remodeling project, said Ralph Burgin, vice president for operations.
 The city picks up both recycling and composting, and a biofuel company picks up the frying oil -- up to two 55-gallon drums a week. In the kitchen, the staff uses products from Clean Source and EcoLab. And the restaurant stopped using plastic liners in the bathroom wastebaskets.
 The restaurant's conversion started after Mr. Burgin's wife, Vickie, became interested in organic food. Soon, his household was green as could be.
 ''At this point in time, even my pets are having organic food,'' he said.
 It didn't take much for him to convince his fellow staff members that the restaurants could change, too.
 ''I became convinced that what was happening in my own private household would makes good business sense,'' he said. ''But it goes beyond that. It also makes us feel good.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Business of Green section on Wednesday about nontoxic and biodegradable products in restaurant kitchens misspelled the surname of a farmer who uses oil from a deep fryer to run his diesel truck, and it misstated part of the name of his farm. He is Michael Yezzi, not Yessi, and he owns Flying Pigs Farm, not Flying Pigs Farms.

GRAPHIC: Photos: GLEAM -- Finding the proper cleaning materials was one of the hardest challenges for the chain Le Pain Quotidien in its effort to be certified green. Yolaida Gonzalez uses them in one restaurant in New York City. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
SUPPLIES -- Lawrence Axil Comras, president of greenhome.com, which researches and sells ecoproducts, shows some cleaners to Anna Grace of Cafe Gratitude in San Francisco. (Photo by Fred Mertz for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (86%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); PETROCHEMICALS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); POLYSTYRENE FOAM PRODUCTS (68%); CLEANERS (68%); POLYSTYRENE (64%) Restaurants; Cleansers, Detergents and Soaps; Environment ; Waste Materials and Disposal; Compost; Special Sections; Recycling of Waste Materials; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: Green Restaurant Assn

PERSON: Michael Oshman; Kim Severson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



146 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Green; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: 'Corporate Hippies' Seek Their Bliss In a New Environmental Economy

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
CHANGE once came slowly to the job market for people seeking careers focused on the environment. No more. 
 There were signs as early as the 1980s, when the Rainforest Alliance began working with businesses to create a program for identifying environmentally sound wood products: more graduates were taking jobs outside traditional environmental arenas like engineering, waste management, policy development, law and resource protection.
 The shift gathered steam in the 1990s, when companies like Starbucks and Nike started to integrate such concerns into everyday business practices. 
 Early this decade, Daniel C. Esty, a professor of environmental law and policy at Yale University, noticed changes in the goals of younger students and the kinds of jobs students took when they left the Yale School of Forestry and the Environment.
 Law and science, which were traditional environmental specialties, still attracted many students; but a newer one, corporate environmental management, was growing. The latest ones -- finance, venture investment, entrepreneurialism -- barely registered.
 ''I am overwhelmed by how this has evolved,'' Dr. Esty said recently. 
 Students still gravitate toward nongovernmental organizations, advocacy groups and government, but a large plurality of the current generation interested in environmental work are looking elsewhere, particularly to financial firms, small businesses and even corporations. They seek employment there because, among other things, they think that is where they can have the greatest impact.
 ''It's extraordinary how many students see themselves as going into business as a place to have leverage on the issues,'' Dr. Esty said.
 Take Samantha Unger, 27, a graduate of Barnard College and the school of engineering at Columbia University. She started with a summer job in a California program, trading state-issued pollution-emission credits. Now she trades credits for greenhouse gas emissions at Evolution Markets, a company in White Plains.
 ''I would call myself a corporate hippie,'' she said. ''I'm in the business of definitely caring for and supporting environmental growth and change for the better, but I also believe in the growth of business. And from the beginning I have believed there should be a cost associated with pollution.'' 
 Ms. Unger and her colleague Jason Patrick, 34, are examples of what Charles F. Mason, a professor of economics at the University of Wyoming, describes as a new driving force. ''The person who knows how to play the financial markets, the middleman looking for someone who has something to sell and can anticipate who will buy it,'' he said -- they will make a real difference.
 None of the academics, employers or young professionals would call these boom times for environmental employment; plenty of graduates with degrees in environmental science must work at finding a job. But all say they are witnessing both an upward trend in the number of jobs and a change in the definition of environmental work.
 ''The issues themselves have changed -- climate change is far and away an example of that,'' said Kevin Doyle, the national director of program development for the Environmental Careers Organization, a nonprofit group that places recent graduates in environmental internships at federal agencies, businesses, nonprofit groups and state and local governments.
 ''Businesses as businesses are becoming actors of environmental sustainability, either because they want to, or they feel they can do good public relations, or because they have to,'' Mr. Doyle said. ''The axis of influence is starting to shift from a more exclusive focus on activists and government. You can work in business because you're an environmentalist.''
 Mr. Doyle and others named several paths to environmental work: law, government, nonprofit groups and, increasingly, management and finance, often in alternative energy. 
 Private employers providing environmental jobs include Goldman Sachs, General Electric, Nike, Timberland, engineering consultants and philanthropic foundations. Some workers bounce among the various subgroups, adding skills as they go.
 Jesse Johnson, 36, graduated from Princeton in 1993 and worked in finance in Hong Kong. He said that he loved the intensity of finance and the intellectual caliber of his co-workers, but missed ''the things that motivated me in college -- the environment, the outdoors.''
 He returned to Yale and graduated in 2002 with joint master's degrees in environmental management and business. When he finished, he and a friend started a furniture business, the Q Collection, in Manhattan.
 ''It took a while to get it up and running,'' Mr. Johnson said of the company, which is not yet profitable. ''It's home furnishings, furniture, textiles, baby furniture. But we add a whole new layer. We are thinking about sustainability.'' 
 Right now, the horizontal expansion of environmental careers is most evident among the 20- and 30-something age groups. They have been trained in what Mr. Doyle called the ''sustainable ecosystems'' mind-set of this generation's environmental policy makers, blending scientific understanding with concerns like economics or social justice. 
 Many switch among environmental jobs -- starting out, say, at a nonprofit, then getting a master's degree and ending up at a business. 
 While Jill Gravender was an undergraduate in economics and taking an ecology class at Arizona State University, she said, ''It became apparent to me that when you're thinking about economics, environmental issues are all considered to be market externalities.'' The two disciplines, she said, ''were talking past one another; I realized I wanted to be that facilitator.'' 
 After college, she got policy jobs with the New America Foundation and the nonprofit California Climate Action Registry, which collects data on various companies' greenhouse gas emissions. She went back to get a master's degree in environmental science and management at the University of California at Santa Barbara and now, at 33, is director of water programs for a small foundation called Environment Now.
 It is not just industrial concerns that are adding environmental jobs. In 1992, Shelley Billik started as a recycling coordinator at Warner Brothers. Now she is vice president for environmental projects. ''When I started in 1992, it was just me,'' she said. ''Now we have a staff of four in the office and a recycling crew of seven.''
 ''The place where the department fits'' has changed as well, she added, becoming part of corporate strategy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: RENEWAL -- Jesse Johnson, 36, left a career in finance to get a degree in environmental management and business and create a furniture business focused on sustainability. (Photo by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 DEALING -- Samantha Unger, 27, trades emissions credits at Evolution Markets. She says her job combines her beliefs in protecting the environment and helping business. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); TRENDS (79%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); RAIN FORESTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (71%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%) Environment; Labor; Hiring and Promotion

ORGANIZATION: RAINFOREST ALLIANCE (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



147 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Immigration Maze, With No Answers

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Like a stranger in a strange land, Carlos Morales, a 26-year-old day laborer who came to Long Island six years ago from Mexico, is a perceptive observer of the suburban terrain where he works, goes to school and dreams of a better life.
 So as he rides the bus or walks to Suffolk County Community College, past the mysterious signs reading ''Rose Riot'' (that's a $7.99-a-dozen sale) or recruiting youths for lacrosse, as he observes the women in their big S.U.V.s and the hostile glares when he enters non-Latino businesses, he takes note of many things. 
There are the kids tossing bottles or tomatoes at immigrant workers from passing cars. There are the men who, he insists, protest illegal immigration at night and then turn around and hire the same laborers by day. There's the policeman who stopped him on the street and demanded to know what was in his backpack (schoolbooks) and who photographs immigrant workers for a running dossier. 
 There's the 12-year-old boy he can't get out of his head, who, when asked by a television interviewer what he thought of immigrant workers, answered, ''I hate them.''
 But sitting the other day at the Paisa Pan Colombian bakery with a beef empanada and a cup of coffee, he could not begin to figure out the maze that is immigration policy in America.
 After all, he lives in a place where the county executive, Steve Levy, has made a national reputation for himself as an outspoken critic of illegal immigration and last week called for a crackdown in the county, including antiloitering legislation and the assignment of federal immigration officials to the county jail, the better to deport people who are here illegally. 
 At the same time Mr. Morales knows that other communities, mostly larger than Farmingville, like Newark, Trenton and New Haven, have formally or informally set themselves up as safe havens for immigrants, where workers are welcome whether they are here legally or not. 
 And then there are the Minutemen, the self-appointed border patrol that seems to him a throwback to vigilante justice in Texas 100 years ago.
 It is as if immigration policy is not a national issue but a local one, like zoning or the school curriculum. New Haven, si, Danbury, no. Trenton, si, Freehold, no.
 And that, of course, is pretty much the case. It is, after all, entirely possible that immigration has become an issue with so many disparate constituencies and competing economic interests to please that we've given up on a solution. Better to muddle along than make hard, unpalatable choices.
 ''No matter what position you take, someone is not going to like it,'' Mr. Morales said.
 He is not sure what will work, either. He thinks a just policy would provide legal status for people like him who came illegally but have worked hard, doing jobs Americans often won't. 
 But when asked why he should be rewarded ahead of people seeking legal status through available channels, he doesn't pretend to have an easy answer. He puts himself inside the mind of his neighbors in Suffolk County and can understand some of their unease about this new population of people living in the shadows, working for less.
 THIS is how Carlos Morales came to this country. The youngest of eight children, and hoping to support his family, he paid a coyote the enormous sum of $1,500 to cross the Sonoran Desert. The group of immigrants went without water for three days, finally finding a muddy pond on a cattle ranch that was good enough for the cows and good enough for them.
 Since arriving here he has worked construction and odd jobs. He fell from a tree doing tree work, hurt his back and is still paying his hospital bills.
 He has passed the English as a second language course at Suffolk and is now working on his G.E.D. He hopes to go to college and study photojournalism or political science. He has seen more at 26 than many of us ever do, so he watches the morass of immigration policy and knows at least two things.
 First, he says, this is not new. America honors its immigration history in the abstract but often looks with disdain on its newcomers -- the Italians, the Irish, the Chinese, the Jews. Now, it's Hispanics. Second, it will take more than an antiloitering law or bottles and tomatoes to get him to leave. He fought to get here. He'll fight to stay here.
 ''I hear people say they have to go back, they have to go back,'' he said of immigrants here illegally. ''Well, they're not going to go back. They're already here. They're not going to go back to Mexico and live in the same situation they were before. So that's being realistic. People are not going to go back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CURRICULA (77%); COUNTIES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); REFUGEES (74%); DEPORTATION (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); BORDER CONTROL (68%) Immigration and Refugees; Day Laborers; Illegal Immigrants; Discrimination; Deportation; Labor

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: Peter Applebome; Carlos Morales

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Suffolk County (NY); Farmingville (NY); Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



148 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: A Piece of History Lands In a Contemporary Fight

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: ALLENSWORTH, Calif. 

 BODY:
It is an unlikely place for a utopia: this cracked-earth landscape of two-lane roads in the Central Valley, so remote that the lilting staccato of freight trains can be heard from miles away.
 Yet it was here, nearly a century ago, that Allen Allensworth, an escaped slave from Kentucky who became the nation's highest-ranking black Army officer at the time, forged an idealistic community dedicated to Booker T. Washington's principles of self-help and self-determination. In 1908 he established Allensworth Colony, which flourished for a fleeting moment in the California heat and dust.
 About 220 miles southeast of San Francisco, the colony drew pilgrims like Cornelius Pope, now 77, who recalls his sense of revelation upon entering the two-room schoolhouse, where everyone was black and photographs of Abraham Lincoln and Booker T. Washington hung on the walls. As the child of migrant cotton pickers, Mr. Pope had lived in cow barns and tents with dirt floors. 
 ''She taught me how to read and write,'' he said of Alwortha Hall, his teacher, who was named after the town. ''It was the first true happiness I'd ever known.'' 
 Now the site of Colonel Allensworth State Historic Park, with its array of board-and-batten buildings restored and rebuilt, California's first planned black community continues to exert a powerful pull, especially among former residents like Mr. Pope, who helped champion the park's creation in the 1970s. 
 So the prospect of a giant dairy with over 16,000 cows and waste lagoons planned near the park's periphery has elicited a wave of emotion among those protective of its history, including several former residents and black R.V. clubs that gather regularly to speak about the park to the nearly 10,000 tourists drawn here each year.
 ''You can relocate cattle,'' said Nettie Morrison, the mayor of the adjoining hamlet named for the colony. ''You can't relocate history.''
 Allensworth was the westernmost black settlement among the scores founded as refuges from lynch mobs, segregation laws and dependency sharecropping. Among them were Nicodemus, Kan., now part of the National Park Service, and Boley, Okla. (current pop. 1,126), then the most bustling of about 50 all-black towns. 
 Collectively, the communities represent an under-recognized chapter of American history that began in 1879 with the ''exodusters'' who migrated from the South to escape racial oppression after Reconstruction. ''Most of these places have been forgotten,'' said Jeffrey A. Harris, diversity director for the National Trust for Historic Preservation. ''It's a perspective on history that's been washed out of the general narrative.''
 This is a corner of California with milk in its veins: Tulare County is the country's largest producer, with more than 300 dairies -- a literal cash cow. The county's Board of Supervisors has tentatively approved the dairy complex, and a final vote will be on March 20. Assemblywoman Wilmer D. Carter, a member of the black caucus, recently introduced a bill that would prohibit any animal-feeding operation within five miles of the park.
 Although many mysteries about the colony remain, what is known is that as a slave, Mr. Allensworth was sold and taught to read and write by his new master's son. He escaped and joined the Union Army; later, he served as a delegate to the Republican National Conventions in 1880 and 1884. For 20 years, he was a chaplain for the 24th (Colored) Infantry, one of the famed all-black ''Buffalo soldier'' regiments. His dream was to create a place where African-Americans could control their own destiny and Buffalo soldiers could retire.
 The colony thrived at first, with a 75-cents-a-night hotel, restaurants, general stores, a library, a girls' glee club, a theater club and a debating society, and its own branch of the N.A.A.C.P. ''Of all the all-black towns of the period, none were as well-conceived,'' said Dr. Lonnie Bunch, director of the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington.
 Alice Royal, born in 1923 -- ''the year electric lights went on in Allensworth'' -- said she recalled walking at night, committing the constellations to memory. ''Even the night was an education,'' Mrs. Royal said. 
 The grand plans included a vocational school that would be the Tuskegee of the West.
 But the colony's troubles soon began. There were legal disputes with the white-owned company that sold Mr. Allensworth's association the land over promised water allotments from wells. By the time they were resolved, the water table had dropped precipitously. The Santa Fe railroad, which stopped on the land bought by Mr. Allensworth, refused to change the name on the local depot, then called Solita, claiming Allensworth was too long to fit on the sign. 
 In 1914, the railroad bypassed Allensworth entirely, essentially strangling its economy. Perhaps the biggest blow came later that year when Mr. Allensworth died after being struck by a motorcycle driven by two white youths -- an ''accident'' that is still being researched by historians. By the 1960s, arsenic contamination in the water had turned the place into a ghost town.
 ''There was nothing but old rag-tag houses you could see clear through,'' Mr. Pope said. ''There was not even a sign that said Allensworth, not even any arrow.''
 Previous plans for land close to the park have included a turkey farm and an industrial food grease dump. Luke Cole, director of the Center on Race, Poverty and the Environment, said such land uses were ''about as close to intentional discrimination as you can see.''
 In recent years, the environmental impact of megadairies on the San Joaquin Valley, with some of the country's worst air quality, has led to lawsuits and a push for tougher regulations. Concerns include air pollution resulting from waste lagoons and the contamination of aquifers. 
 ''It's not the dairy itself -- it's the position of the dairy,'' Mrs. Royal said. ''Especially in hot and windy times, it's a stench out of this world. Nobody will want to come picnicking or celebrating in the park.''
 Samuel Etchegaray, a 64-year-old rancher, wants to build the dairy, and in recent weeks, the state, which has invested $8 million in renovations at the park, has enlisted the nonprofit Trust for Public Land to discuss with him the possibility of a conservation easement that would preclude agricultural use. 
 David Albers, a land-use lawyer in Bakersfield who is representing Mr. Etchegaray, said he and his client were evaluating the trust's proposal. ''If it meets our goals and the state's goals,'' Mr. Albers said, ''then there will be a deal.''
 David J. Organ, a historian at Clark Atlanta University who is writing a book on Allensworth and other black settlements, said that although the colony was short-lived, its message remains relevant.
 ''Preservation is the last frontier of the civil rights movement,'' Mr. Organ said. ''Especially post-Katrina, we have to reconstruct the memories of these communities before we can physically reconstruct them with hammer and nails. That's the legacy of Allensworth.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The home of Allen Allensworth, who in 1908 founded the colony that bore his name, is now part of a state park in the Central Valley of California. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 Colonel Allensworth, far right, envisioned the town as a haven from racial oppression. Former residents are among those fighting a proposed dairy near the park. They include Alice Royal and her brother William E. Calbert, at left, and Cornelius Pope, in the colony's two-room school. (Photo by above, California State Parks)Map of California highlighting Allensworth: Nearly 10,000 tourists are drawn to the remote state park each year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (87%); NATIONAL PARKS (87%); FARM LABOR (74%); TRAINS (72%); RANKINGS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); ARMIES (57%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (51%) Livestock; Blacks; Manure; Historic Buildings and Sites; Utopias; Livestock

COMPANY: WALLS AS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (59%) Trust for Public Land

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (69%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (69%)

PERSON: Samuel Etchegaray; Allen (1842-1914) Allensworth; Booker Taliaferro (1856-1915) Washington; Patricia Leigh Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Allensworth (Calif); California; Colonel Allensworth State Historic Park (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



149 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: The Value Of Their Values

BYLINE: By RORY STEWART. 
Rory Stewart's latest book is ''The Prince of the Marshes and Other Occupational Hazards of a Year in Iraq.'' He runs the Turquoise Mountain Foundation in Kabul and is a guest columnist this month.

 BODY:
I began my career as a Foreign Service officer in Indonesia. There, journalists, diplomats and aid workers emphasized that local government was ''incompetent, inefficient and corrupt.'' I heard the same when working in the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq. My colleagues often seemed contemptuous of the nations where they served. They overlooked the cultures' virtues and strengths, which are the keys to rebuilding nations, particularly after insurgency and civil war.
 Foreign policy experts will tell you that poor states lack the rule of law, a vibrant civil society, free media, a transparent civil service, political participation and a great deal more. Employees of major international agencies commonly complain that Afghans or Iraqis or Kenyans ''can't plan'' or ''can't implement.'' 
At its worst, this attitude is racist, bullying and ignorant. But there are less sinister explanations. As a diplomat, I was praised for ''realism'' if I sent home critical telegrams. Now, working for a nonprofit, I find that donor proposals encourage us to emphasize the negative aspects of local society. Many of our criticisms reflect our deep assumptions about citizenship, management and the state.
 Afghans and Iraqis are often genuinely courageous, charming, generous, inventive and honorable. Their social structures have survived centuries of poverty and foreign mischief and decades of war and oppression, and have enabled them to overcome almost unimaginable trauma. But to acknowledge this seems embarrassingly romantic or even patronizing. 
 Yet the only chance of rebuilding a nation like Iraq or Afghanistan in the face of insurgency or civil war is to identify, develop and use some of these traditional values. Many international reformers overexaggerate the power of technical assistance and formal processes. In fact, in these contexts, charisma can be more potent than bureaucracy. Politicians have to demonstrate an intuitive understanding of local power structures and an empathy for the unexpected things people value about themselves. 
 This may be uncomfortable for the international community. A leader who can restore security, reconcile warring parties and shape the aspirations of a people may resemble an Ataturk more than a U.S. president. This is not a call for dictatorship. True progress must be sustained by the unconstrained wishes of the people. These should include, in Afghanistan, people with strong liberal values as much as conservative rural communities. These various desires must be protected from both the contorted control of an authoritarian state and the muffling effect of foreign aid. 
 The international community often attempts to avoid imposing foreign systems. Donors try hard to emphasize grass-roots consultation in designing a political system. But it is much easier for us in theory than in practice to admire and empower an unfamiliar society. 
 Our approach to nation building in Afghanistan has failed to accommodate the splits between Hazara and Pusthu land arrangements, gender attitudes and codes, or their different approaches to literacy, the dignity of the individual or economic progress. We do not embrace the many unexpected ways in which Afghans might overcome trauma, invest, trade and learn. Such diversity should not be imprisoned by the current centralized government, but empowered by a devolved and flexible federal system. 
 Western management jargon is of little help to Afghan entrepreneurs, who use tricks, trust, community and crises in a powerful way. The strong Afghan sense of justice, community and religious belief can support a counternarcotics program, the rule of law, democracy or security. But the real drivers of change are opaque. 
 Ultimately, we must respect countries like Iraq and Afghanistan, and trust in their ability to find their own solutions. This does not mean we need to withdraw entirely. A Harvard M.B.A. will be better at building a hydroelectric plant than a local tribal process. Foreign troops can sometimes, as in Bosnia, end a war. Our rigid values, critiques and methodologies can, even in Iraq, set up a central bank and stabilize a currency. 
 But the central problems are national and political. Our invective about state failure and our dissatisfaction have become part of the problem. Real solutions will emerge, often improbably, from local individual virtues, and from the cultures we struggle to describe and tend to ignore. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); POLITICS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency

PERSON: Rory Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%) Afghanistan; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



150 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; ARACATACA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: The Town's Biggest Event Since the Banana Fever Ended

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: ARACATACA, Colombia, March 6 

 BODY:
Long gone are the expatriate managers of the United Fruit Company, which made Aracataca into a thriving company town in Colombia's banana-growing region in the early 20th century. Gone, too, are the Gypsies who would pitch their tents on the edge of town to sell contraptions like telescopes and false teeth.
 But the most painful absence on Tuesday was that of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the native son for whom Aracataca was the inspiration for Macondo, the fictional setting for his epic novel, ''One Hundred Years of Solitude.'' 
Still, that did not keep Aracataca from celebrating Mr. Garcia Marquez's 80th birthday, which was Tuesday, with a military parade, a special Roman Catholic Mass and 80 fireworks set off at 5 a.m.
 ''We're still waiting for the maestro to appear,'' Pedro Javier Sanchez Rueda, the mayor of Aracataca, said hopefully in an interview. 
 This is a busy month for the author, who lives mainly in Mexico City and has quietly been battling lymphatic cancer for several years. In addition to his birthday, the governments of Colombia and Spain will celebrate the 40th anniversary of the publication of ''One Hundred Years of Solitude'' later this month in Cartagena. 
 It is also the 25th anniversary of his Nobel Prize in Literature, which helped transform him into perhaps the most prominent living writer in the Spanish language. 
 Aracataca, struggling after decades of neglect and economic decline, is pinning its hopes for a revival on the attention surrounding Mr. Garcia Marquez this year. Shortly after he won the Nobel, the Bogota daily newspaper El Tiempo sent a reporter here, and he described Aracataca as ''a ruined, backward town, without the tiniest attraction.''
 A bit harsh, perhaps, but then again Aracataca, with about 50,000 residents, has not changed much in the ensuing quarter-century.
 Most of its charming wooden houses with zinc roofs have been replaced with nondescript concrete homes. The train that once transported passengers and bananas to the coast rarely stops here anymore, its cars now filled with coal destined for export to the United States. Ragged children ask for coins and scraps of food outside the cafes on the town's bucolic plaza. 
 Still, the telegraph office where Mr. Garcia Marquez's father worked remains standing, with a rusting old typewriter and a telegraph machine sitting on a desk beside some newer post office boxes. And there is the author's home, a decaying wooden structure with a beautiful yard. 
 The home, where Mr. Garcia Marquez listened to his grandmother's tales of Aracataca's history, has been turned into a struggling museum under the management of a starry-eyed poet, Rafael Dario Jimenez. Last week Colombia's government promised money to improve the structure. Meanwhile, its highlight is a collection of graying snapshots of the author, including one with Graham Greene, both clutching cocktails. 
 Mayor Sanchez said he would like to find a sister city along the lines of Oxford, Miss., the home of William Faulkner, whose writing greatly influenced Mr. Garcia Marquez during his youth. Faulkner created the fictional Yoknapatawpha County with the town of Jefferson -- some say Oxford -- at its heart.
 Officials here rarely touch on the more brutal aspects of their region's history, like the massacre of striking banana workers in 1928, a year after Mr. Garcia Marquez, known by the nickname Gabo, was born. Instead they have tried to change the town's name to Aracataca-Macondo in an effort to attract tourists, but failed when not enough voters showed up for a referendum last June. 
 Apathy, it seems, trumped an effort to make life imitate art, though a sign at Aracataca's entrance already welcomes visitors to ''the wonderful world of Macondo,'' and businesses, like MaconSalud, a private health clinic, make liberal use of the name.
 Mr. Garcia Marquez's only relative here, a cousin named Nicolas Arias, explained his opposition to the name change by saying, ''Gabo was born in Aracataca, not Macondo.'' Mr. Arias, 70, the owner of a small bar, said he was still ''extremely proud'' of the accomplishments of his cousin, who lived here until the age of 8.
 In his memoir ''Living to Tell the Tale,'' Mr. Garcia Marquez describes a trip he made to Aracataca with his mother in his early 20s, when he was struggling to eke out a living as a reporter after dropping out of law school. The flood of thoughts when he arrived inspired his masterpiece about generations of the Buendia family and their travails through seemingly endless civil wars and the decline of Macondo. 
 ''I know it was the most important decision of all the decisions in my career,'' he wrote of the visit.
 Even after the fireworks went off and a mariachi band sang ''Happy Birthday,'' many people wondered where Mr. Garcia Marquez was. 
 Jose Marin Marulanda, 56, the owner of a small restaurant, said he had heard that the author was convalescing in Spain. Alfonso Torres Garcia, 43, a nephew of the author who came to the Aracataca celebration from Cartagena, where many of Mr. Garcia Marquez's relatives live, said his uncle might be in Havana visiting his longtime friend Fidel Castro. Mr. Arias said he was in Los Angeles. 
 A Colombian radio station, Radio Caracol, broke a few hearts of those still waiting for the author when it reported that he was quietly celebrating his birthday at his home in Mexico City. 
 ''We're going to have a fine celebration anyway,'' said Jacqueline Jacobs, 43, a health official who proudly said her grandfather, an engineer and immigrant from the Netherlands Antilles, had helped build the infrastructure that made Aracataca a relatively prosperous town during the thriving days of the banana trade. 
 ''We love Gabo and everything he has done,'' she added.
 Glimpses of the old, isolated Aracataca that inspired the author could still be seen. Gamblers lined up to play open-air roulette on a rickety table on a side street near the plaza. Bicycle taxis ferried passengers around town. One woman, Emma Molina Molinares, took a break from selling empanadas to recite some her own impromptu poetry, rhymes about life's losses and gains, before a few visitors. 
 ''Gabo and I have something else in common in addition to our way with words,'' said a smiling Ms. Molina. ''My birthday is tomorrow. I turn 48.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Mariachi band saluting Aracataca's favorite son in his absence.
 Women sang ''Happy Birthday'' at the stroke of midnight as Gabriel Garcia Marquez turned 80 yesterday. (Photographs by Scott Dalton for The New York Times)Map of Colombia highlighting Aracataca: Aracataca is where Mr. Garcia Marquez lived until the age of 8. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); MAYORS (78%); HISTORY (77%); POETRY (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); PARADES & MARCHES (69%); RELIGION (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (54%); LYMPHOMA (52%); CANCER (52%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature

COMPANY: CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (91%)

TICKER: CQB (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (91%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: Gabriel Garcia Marquez; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%) COLOMBIA (97%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%) Aracataca (Colombia); Colombia

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



151 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Presses North Korea Over Uranium

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

 BODY:
The United States said yesterday that North Korea must fully disclose its efforts to produce highly enriched uranium as part of the negotiations now under way that are aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program and normalizing relations between the two countries.
 ''They need to come clean on it, explain what they have been doing, why they have been doing it, and ultimately they would need to abandon it,'' said Christopher R. Hill, the chief United States negotiator. 
 Mr. Hill made the remarks to a morning gathering at the Japan Society in New York prior to entering his second day of talks with Kim Kye-gwan, his North Korean counterpart. In a late afternoon briefing after the talks concluded, Mr. Hill said they had been ''very good, very businesslike, very comprehensive.'' 
 The talks are the first product of a Feb. 13 agreement reached in Beijing in which the government of Kim Jong-il said it would stop, seal and ultimately disable its nuclear facilities in exchange for fuel and other assistance. 
 While the accord specified that North Korea was required to make a full ''declaration'' of all of its nuclear activities, the question of the uranium enrichment program in particular arose yesterday because of recent suggestions that the Bush administration may have overstated the reliability of intelligence on the progress that North Korea might have made in enriching uranium.
 Last October, North Korea tested its first nuclear device, a weapon made with plutonium. The United States says it believes that North Korea has also been working to develop a device using highly enriched uranium, and it points to the purchase of expensive equipment designed for that purpose that North Korea has made from Pakistan. But recently, government officials said they were no longer as confident that the North built on that purchase and had a uranium program.
 Despite the recent doubts about the progress of the program, Mr. Hill said the United States was ''owed a pretty clear answer'' on why the purchase from Pakistan were made. ''It is not unusual for a country going nuclear to go nuclear on two tracks.''
 The Feb. 13 accord has come under criticism from American conservatives like John R. Bolton, a former United Nations ambassador, who argue that it rewards North Korea by promising the delivery of fuel and assistance before the country's nuclear capacity is dismantled. 
 In defending the agreement, Mr. Hill noted that it had been criticized from both the right and the left in the United States for the same reason -- that it was no improvement over a 1994 accord known as the Agreed Framework, which was struck by President Clinton, broken by North Korea and later dismissed by President Bush as a mistake.
 But Mr. Hill said the new agreement was not just a bilateral accord but one that was endorsed by China and other major countries in Asia. He also noted that it set up working groups with strict deadlines that are to take up issues that go beyond energy.
 The working groups, which are meeting in New York and in Beijing this month, will also explore economic assistance for North Korea and a security agreement to cover all of Northeast Asia, Mr. Hill said.
 The Feb. 13 accord specifies a 60-day deadline for shutting down Yongbyon, North Korea's main nuclear complex north of the capital, Pyongyang, and allowing inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, back into the country.
 Steps to be taken after the 60 days focus on the challenge of getting North Korea to agree to disabling nuclear facilities and verifying the amount of plutonium remaining in the country. ''We want to make sure that when the North Koreans give us a declaration, there are no surprises and no omissions,'' he said.
 A meeting was set for March 19 of the six parties that participated in hammering out the recent agreement -- North and South Korea, Japan, China, Russia and the United States -- to review progress. A mid-April gathering of the countries' foreign ministers will assess progress after 60 days.
 Mr. Hill said that in a visit to Washington last week he met with Republican and Democratic senators about the agreement and had received ''a great deal of support, enormous support.''
 But he added, ''If we start missing deadlines and things start going badly, some of that support will peel off.''
 Asked if he feared that North Korea was playing for time and waiting for a more hospitable government in Washington after the next election, he said, ''They understand that things aren't going to get better in the next two years.'' No administration, he said, could ignore the spread of nuclear weapons.
 He said he had assured North Korea that the United States was committed to negotiations that would eventually lead to diplomatic relations between the two countries. ''I also reaffirmed to them the need for them to fulfill their part of the bargain, which is complete denuclearization,'' he said.
 ''To me it makes a lot of sense,'' he said. ''I look at the road that North Korea is on today, and I don't see much future for it on this road.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher R. Hill said yesterday that the talks had been ''very good.'' (Photo by Bebeto Matthews/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); BILL CLINTON (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Christopher R Hill; Warren Hoge

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); PAKISTAN (93%); CHINA (79%) North Korea; Pakistan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



152 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Europeans' New Mantra: Go West

BYLINE: By SHELLEY EMLING

 BODY:
Emboldened by the strength of the pound and the euro, Europeans are eyeing real estate across the Atlantic, while the weak dollar is forcing Americans to think twice about property in Europe, analysts say. 
 William Thompson, vice president for sales at Newfound Property International in London, said luxury properties at the 200-unit Ocean's Edge Resort on the Caribbean island of St. Kitts, for example, are selling quickly, thanks in large part to Britons who are taking advantage of a favorable exchange rate.
''These buyers are taking a bet on the currency,'' he said. ''I can't predict where the dollar is going, but it seems to me to be a very nice time to buy if you can use pounds. And it could be very good for buyers if they use pounds to buy a dollar property and then the dollar strengthens.''
 At Ocean's Edge, which is scheduled to be completed in January 2009, the one-bedroom beachfront apartments overlooking Cable Bay start at $315,000, or about 160,000 pounds. That is much less than the average price of a London property, which just hit 250,000 pounds, or about $490,000, for the first time.
 ''The Caribbean is definitely very attractive for Europeans right now, because it gives them the ability to buy dollar properties,'' Mr. Thompson said, adding that about 70 percent of the sales at Ocean's Edge had been to buyers based in Britain.
 In recent months, the dollar has flirted with a 2-to-1 exchange with the pound for the first time since 1992. The dollar also recently hit a record low against the euro, with the European currency now worth about $1.31.
 ''Americans who are looking to diversify away from their home market will inevitably find the current circumstances surrounding the dollar more challenging,'' said Simon Rubinsohn, an investment strategist at Barclays Wealth in London.
 ''Rising interest rates in Europe also make the financing less compelling,'' he said. ''Our suspicion is that all this will continue to manifest itself in a lower level of interest in European property.''
 There are no current, comprehensive sales figures on American real estate sales to foreigners or on American purchases in Europe, but industry experts on both sides of the ocean say there are substantial indications to support the flood of anecdotal evidence.
 Richard Kirk, head dealer in charge of personal transfers at Travelex, the foreign exchange specialist in London, said his company had seen a 22 percent upturn this year in dollar trades from last year, when the pound was at $1.74. ''This is the weakest dollar we have seen for well over 10 years,'' he said, ''and it is no surprise that our clients are currently keen to transact.'' 
 Mr. Kirk noted that a four-bedroom house in Florida on the market for $297,000 would be only 150,000 pounds, the price of a studio apartment in London.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of the Oceans Edge resort, a new five-star residential resort going up on Frigate Bay in St. Kitts. (Photo by Courtesy of Blue Ice Communications)
 These garden cottages planned for Oceans Edge on St. Kitts. (Photo by Courtesy of Blue Ice Communications) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH POUND (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EURO (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007



153 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Bids For Control Of Japanese Finance Firm

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 6 

 BODY:
Citigroup announced a $10.8 billion takeover bid Tuesday for Japan's third-largest brokerage firm as it tries to make a comeback in one of the world's richest financial markets.
 If successful, the bid, for the firm Nikko Cordial, would be the largest takeover ever of a Japanese brokerage firm by a foreign company, underscoring the extent to which Japan's once tightly closed economy has opened to the world. It also would unite two financial services companies that have had run-ins with Japanese regulators over the last few years.
At a joint news conference in Tokyo, Citigroup said it wanted to buy a controlling stake of at least half the shares of Nikko Cordial, in which Citigroup already holds a 4.9 percent stake. The $10.8 billion offer has been approved by the boards of both companies and is part of a broader banking alliance. 
 For Nikko, the deal would provide the expertise and financial clout to challenge the No. 1 and No. 2 brokerage firms here, Nomura Holdings and Daiwa Securities. For Citigroup, it would accelerate its growth here and give it a bigger piece of the market for managing the huge pool of private savings in Japan, valued by some at up to $17 trillion. 
 The deal also has importance for Citigroup's chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Prince III, who is under intense pressure from investors to deliver on his strategy of internal and international growth. 
 Two years ago, Mr. Prince traveled here to bow to Japanese regulators and offer an apology. In the United States, Citigroup was hampered by a Federal Reserve ban on major acquisitions.
 To appease regulators and help restore Citigroup's reputation, Mr. Prince began an overhaul of the company's practices, and he traveled to Japan at least once a quarter. Yesterday, Mr. Prince appeared to declare victory for those plans. 
 In an interview, he said the $10.8 billion deal was the ''largest one I have done on my watch'' and called Citigroup one of Japan's ''most recognized and most respected brands.'' 
 Still, Mr. Prince said the transaction did not suggest that the company's strategy was changing. ''This is pretty unusual,'' he said. ''We are not stepping up from smaller deals to larger deals.'' 
 In gaining control of Nikko, Citigroup would get one of Japan's oldest and best-known brokerage firms, with more than 100 retail branches nationwide and $250 billion in customer assets under management. But integrating Nikko also poses a challenge for Sallie L. Krawcheck, who is expected to take over Citigroup's brokerage and private banking group next week. 
 Citigroup is treading in rough territory. In the late 1990s, in a prominent foreign takeover in the brokerage business, Merrill Lynch took over about a quarter of the branches of the failed Yamaichi Securities, which at the time was the country's fourth-largest brokerage firm. It was never able to turn the operation around, though Japan's economic stagnation did not help. 
 Nikko has been under great pressure after an accounting scandal prompted the authorities to consider delisting it from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Its management welcomed Citigroup as a white knight rescuing the struggling firm.
 ''We decided this was our best option,'' said Nikko's president, Shoji Kuwashima. ''We're sure that with this tie-up, we can become one of the most trusted financial companies.''
 The proposal also represents a renewed push into Japan by Citigroup, which stumbled here in 2004 when regulators shut its private banking arm after accusations of misleading customers and allowing possible money laundering. Citigroup also suffered a setback here in January, when it took a $415 million loss on its consumer finance business.
 The loss of the private banking unit was a particularly severe blow to Citigroup. Private banks cater to wealthy individuals, and Citigroup had dominated this lucrative market in Japan until the scandal. Citigroup has spent the last two and a half years trying to rebuild its reputation in Japan and fashion a new strategy.
 Analysts called the bid the culmination of those efforts, and said the fact that Citigroup was being allowed to take over a scandal-tainted brokerage firm was a vote of confidence by Japanese regulators that Citigroup had solved its problems.
 ''Citigroup was in the doghouse itself just a few years ago,'' said Neil Katkov, a bank analyst in Tokyo for Celent Communications. ''Citi's worldwide efforts to strengthen its corporate governance have borne fruit.''
 The need for a comeback may be why Citigroup is willing to pay a sizable premium for Nikko. Citigroup, which appears to be the only bidder, said that it would pay 1,350 yen ($11.66) for each Nikko share. That represents a 15 percent premium over the opening price Tuesday but is a still larger premium to the share price over the past month. 
 Shares rose 14 percent, to 1,340 yen, in Tokyo on Tuesday, helping to lift the entire Tokyo stock market to its first gain after five days of losses. Citigroup could pay up to $10.8 billion if shareholders sell it all of the 95.1 percent of Nikko stock that it does not already own.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoji Kuwashima, left, chief executive of Nikko Cordial, and his counterpart at Citigroup's unit in Japan, Douglas L. Peterson, after they discussed Citigroup's takeover bid at a news conference yesterday in Tokyo. (Photo by Toshifumi Kitamura/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PRIVATE BANKING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); BONDS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (90%); NIKKO CORDIAL CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Nikko Cordial Corp

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); NMR (NYSE) (90%); N33 (SGX) (90%); 8604 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: Shoji Suwashima; Douglas Peterson; Martin Fackler; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



154 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 5; The Business of Green; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: The New Bioplastics, More Than Just Forks

BYLINE: By SUSAN MORAN

 BODY:
MEG SOBKOWICZ was on a fast career track in the oil industry. A bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Columbia landed her a job at Schlumberger running wireline logs on oil wells in New Mexico. Next stop was to be Casper, Wyo., the heart of the interior West's oil and gas boom. But she jumped off the track. 
 ''I knew that working in the oil industry was not in sync with my values,'' said Ms. Sobkowicz, 28. ''I wanted something with an alternative-energy connection.'' 
Now, as a doctoral student at the Colorado School of Mines in Golden, Ms. Sobkowicz is one of a growing number of chemists who are developing bio-based plastics that can supplant those made from oil. Ms. Sobkowicz is working on improving the durability of plastics derived from corn and other plants, developing nanoscale fibers from cotton to reinforce them.
 Bioplastics can offer several benefits: reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the production process, minimizing toxic waste in the environment and promoting rural economic development by using local crops. They can also be biodegradable.
 While disposable cutlery, food packaging and even fabrics made from corn have been on the market for several years, companies are now moving toward applications where performance, heat resistance and durability are more important. These applications typically require that biopolymers be reinforced with kenaf fiber (similar to jute) or other fillers. 
 Products based on durable biopolymers have begun appearing in the marketplace. Japanese companies like NEC Corporation, Unitika and NTT DoCoMo are manufacturing cellphones with casings made from bioplastics. Toyota Motor Corporation uses bioplastic reinforced with kenaf for the rear package tray in its Lexus ES300 model. 
 The largest commercial producer of bioplastic is NatureWorks, which is owned by the food-processing giant Cargill. The company's plant, in Blair, Neb., uses corn sugar to produce polylactide plastic packaging materials and its Ingeo-brand fibers. It churns out white pellets that other manufacturers use. 
 The second largest biopolymer producer is Metabolix of Cambridge, Mass. It makes a different form of polymer for applications ranging from rigid molded items to flexible film for shopping or garbage bags. 
 Metabolix claims that its plastics are biodegradable in such varied environments as backyard composting bins, wetlands and the ocean itself. (According to the Biodegradable Products Institute, bioplastics should decompose into carbon dioxide and water in a ''controlled composting environment'' -- a municipal facility, for instance -- in under 90 days.)
 ''A lot of bio-based products are tossed out like cigarette butts, and for various reasons never decompose,'' said James J. Barber, Metabolix's chief executive. ''I can't conceive of a system that's so perfect that none of this stuff will escape into nature. For the stuff that does escape, we're a backstop, ensuring that it won't last thousands of years.'' 
 But representatives of the petrochemical industry point out that plastics made from fossil fuels can be biodegradable, too. And they note that most bio-based plastics, if tossed in a landfill rather than a municipal-scale composting facility, might as well be a tin can or a conventional plastic bottle. 
 ''It's not just bio-based versus petroleum-based,'' said Judith Dunbar, director for environmental issues at the plastics division of the American Chemistry Council, which represents hundreds of plastics manufacturers. ''I believe conventional plastics would probably be better than renewables over a full life cycle.'' 
 Even some scientists who are creating bioplastics caution against overstating their benefits. John Warner, director of the Center for Green Chemistry at the University of Massachusetts at Lowell, said it was unlikely that bioplastics would offer advantages in every application.
 ''It's not about finding the magic material that'll replace all bad materials,'' he said. ''That home-run mentality will kill us, because we'd never move forward. But if you promote a replacement material, it's got to do as good of a job, not just sell itself as a swell biopolymer. And it's got to be cost effective. We'll get there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE PLASTICS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); NATURAL FIBERS (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEET & BAG MFG (72%); BIODEGRADABLE PACKAGING (71%); FOOD PACKAGING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); WETLANDS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Plastics; Industry Profiles; Rural Areas; Economic Conditions and Trends; Special Sections; Carbon Dioxide; Weather; Global Warming; Waste Materials and Disposal; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Plastics; Agriculture

COMPANY: METABOLIX INC (84%); NTT DOCOMO INC (82%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); NEC CORP (82%); UNITIKA LTD (54%)

TICKER: MBLX (NASDAQ) (84%); NDCM (LSE) (82%); DCM (NYSE) (82%); 9437 (TSE) (82%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); 6701 (TSE) (82%); 3103 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2823 CELLULOSIC MANMADE FIBERS (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (54%); SIC2221 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, MANMADE FIBER & SILK (54%)

PERSON: Susan Moran

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPER, WY, USA (92%) WYOMING, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



155 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Green; STEP BY STEP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: A Coal Executive With a Cleanup Mission

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
ON a frigid February morning in Washington, when snow had delayed the opening of government offices, James E. Rogers was up early, already campaigning, making the case for a national policy to curb global warming.
 The United States, Mr. Rogers insisted, should move as quickly as possible to set mandatory limits on how much carbon dioxide, one of the main greenhouse gases, can be spewed into the air. His arguments were informed, nuanced and persuasive -- and paradoxical, given the source.
Mr. Rogers, 59, is the chief executive of Duke Energy, a big coal-burning utility in the Midwest and Southeast. Coal, of course, is the dirtiest of fossil fuels, and Duke is one of the country's largest producers of carbon dioxide emissions. Even as he takes a green stance in Washington, Mr. Rogers is seeking approval to build a large coal-fired plant in North Carolina. 
 There is no shortage of corporate chiefs proclaiming themselves friends of the environment and enemies of global warming. But Mr. Rogers, perhaps more than any other American corporate leader, is walking a climate change tightrope. His company has a huge stake in global warming policy, since 70 percent of Duke's power comes from coal plants. So Mr. Rogers has a powerful incentive to shape the carbon-control legislation that is expected to come up in the next couple of years. The outcome will determine if Duke can gradually make investments in carbon-cleanup technologies and alternative energy sources, or if it will face a more wrenching transition. 
 Duke was one of 10 companies, including General Electric, DuPont, Alcoa and Pacific Gas and Electric, that joined with leading environmental groups in January to call for nationwide limits to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 10 to 30 percent over the next 15 years. Mr. Rogers is chairman of the Edison Electric Institute, the utility industry's trade group, whose members provide 60 percent of the nation's electric power. He prodded the group into declaring a set of climate change principles in February. 
 On his trip to Washington last month, Mr. Rogers testified before a Senate subcommittee on energy, met with members of the House and Senate and spoke at a conference on energy efficiency. 
 As a coal-utility executive who is a champion of carbon control legislation, Mr. Rogers can be considered an enlightened progressive or a calculating opportunist.
 ''To some degree, I understand the criticism,'' he said. ''There is an inherent tension that seems contradictory in trying to deliver affordable, available and clean energy.''
 Clean technology, efficiency programs, federal caps on carbon emissions and regulation to shape market incentives, he said, are all vital in any program combating global warming without hobbling the economy.
 ''There is no silver bullet here,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''What we need is more like silver buckshot, a lot of things working together.''
 Mr. Rogers does not see contradictions or hypocrisies, but trade-offs and consensus-building to make progress. ''We've got to find common ground among the stakeholders -- consumers, industry, regulators, policy makers and environmental groups,'' he said. ''They won't all be entirely satisfied, but there has to be enough common ground so each of them can buy in.''
 Mr. Rogers brings an eclectic resume to the task, not merely as an industry executive but also as a former regulator and one-time utility critic. One of his first jobs after law school was as a public advocate in Kentucky. ''I fought electricity rate increases,'' he recalled. 
 The framework for curbing carbon-dioxide emissions, Mr. Rogers said, is essential. ''We need to know what we're shooting for long term,'' he said. ''And we need to start now, because the longer we wait the more difficult and expensive this is going to be.'' 
 By all accounts, Mr. Rogers has made a career of being ahead of his industry on environmental issues. Over the years, policy makers and colleagues said, he has consistently tried to shape regulatory ground rules instead of instinctively resisting regulation. His background helps: he served two stints on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In Washington, Mr. Rogers also became a partner at the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, where he worked with Robert S. Strauss, the former Democratic Party chief and diplomat. ''It was a very sophisticated political environment,'' Mr. Rogers observed.
 Mr. Rogers said he enjoyed the political bargaining and the intellectual challenge of public policy. For years, he has been a regular at the Aspen Institute and the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
 ''Jim Rogers is someone who, frankly, gets ahead of where the markets and policy are headed,'' said Philip R. Sharp, the president of Resources for the Future, a nonprofit research group, and a former representative from Indiana. (Mr. Sharp was a board member of Cinergy, the Midwest utility Mr. Rogers headed before it was acquired last year by Duke.) ''And in getting ahead of the curve, he's being pragmatic, of course,'' Mr. Sharp added. 
 Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense, recalled that he first met Mr. Rogers in the late 1980s, when Mr. Rogers was chief executive of Public Service Indiana. Mr. Rogers endorsed federal legislation to control smokestack emissions of sulfur dioxide, a pollutant that causes acid rain. The sulfur dioxide curbs were included in amendments to the Clean Air Act of 1990.
 ''He was about the only utility executive supporting acid rain controls,'' Mr. Krupp said.
 By 2000 or so, Mr. Krupp said, Mr. Rogers had begun speaking publicly about setting limits on carbon dioxide emissions. ''Utilities are now coming around to where Jim Rogers has been for years,'' Mr. Krupp said. 
 Today, Mr. Rogers is a vocal advocate for mandatory carbon controls, a position that he developed after much study. 
 In 2000, when the utility industry tended to dismiss global warming as an implausible cause celebre for tree-huggers, Mr. Rogers took another path. He invited Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University, to the Cincinnati headquarters of Cinergy. 
 Mr. Stavins brought along an expert on climate change from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and they spent a day briefing the company's senior management team on the science, policy and economics of global warming. 
 ''That was most remarkable at the time, and even now it would be unusual,'' Mr. Stavins said. 
 The same year, Mr. Rogers hired Kevin Leahy, a trained engineer, former Peace Corps program manager and graduate of Harvard's Kennedy School of Public Policy, to investigate the issue of climate change on the company's behalf. Mr. Rogers told him, as Mr. Leahy recalled: ''We've got to figure out what it means to us. And what our response to it should be.''
 Duke's current position is that mandatory carbon dioxide emissions should apply to the entire economy, not just the utility industry. The company supports a cap-and-trade system, capping carbon dioxide emissions and then giving or selling allowances to companies, effectively permitting them to generate a certain amount of emissions. 
 In the early years at least, Mr. Rogers said, power companies heavily dependent on coal should be given more allowances -- pollution permits -- than other companies. Otherwise, he said, regions heavily dependent on coal, mainly the Midwest and Southeast, would take an economic battering.
 A cap-and-trade system, in theory, would set a price for a ton of carbon dioxide emissions. Companies that clean up quickly could sell their allowances to others. And the market would stimulate investment and innovation in cleanup technologies and energy sources like wind and solar power.
 Mr. Rogers and his company are not yet supporting any of the global warming bills being introduced in Congress. Some climate change measure, industry and environmental lobbyists agreed, stood an excellent chance of passage in this Congress or the next. The most contentious issues, they said, would be the levels set for carbon dioxide emissions and the division of pollution-permit allowances.
 In North Carolina, Mr. Rogers is seeking state approval to build two 800-megawatt coal-fired generators at a plant west of Charlotte. Duke says that it is needed to meet electricity demand, and that it will be cleaner and more efficient than conventional units, allowing Duke to retire some older, dirtier plants. The proposed plant, using so-called supercritical technology, has qualified for a $125 million federal tax credit to encourage cleaner coal generators.
 Environmentalists oppose the plant, saying the state's power requirements could be met with efficiency programs and investments in renewable energy. Duke is trying to get approval for the coal plant, the environmentalists say, to get more pollution allowances once climate change legislation is passed, and to avoid the higher cost of the cleanest technology -- coal gasification and carbon capture.
 ''Jim Rogers is saying one thing, but Duke is doing something very different locally,'' said Marily Nixon, a senior attorney for the Southern Environmental Law Center.
 In testimony before the state utility commission in January, Mr. Rogers said: ''We're going to argue that we ought to have an allocation here. I think it gets grandfathered because it's perceived by the government as we perceive it, as a clean coal plant.''
 Mr. Rogers said the proposed North Carolina plant was another calibrated balancing of interests. The plant also reflects his commitment to coal. Half of America's electricity comes from coal, and, he said, he did not think the alternatives could replace coal. Pointing to the estimates that America has a 250-year supply of coal, he said, ''It's a cliche to call us the Saudi Arabia of coal, but I do think there is an energy security issue.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ADVOCATE -- James E. Rogers, the chief executive of Duke Energy, a big coal-burning utility, supports caps on carbon emissions. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (70%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%) Weather; Coal; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Special Sections; Electric Light and Power; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (57%); PG&E CORP (57%); ALCOA INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Duke Energy Corp

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (57%); PCG (SWX) (57%); PCG (NYSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (93%) James E Rogers; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



156 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; The Business of Green; HOMEGROWN INDUSTRY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Vermont Wants You To Fill Its Open Spaces

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: NORTH FERRISBURG, Vt. 

 BODY:
DAVE MELICHAR always knew he wanted to work in wind power, but Mr. Melichar, a native of Carmel, N.Y. , was unsure where he would settle after college. That changed 10 years ago, when he visited friends in Burlington, Vt., and fell in love with the city and its environmentalist culture.
 Now Mr. Melichar, 33, is part owner of Windstream, a wind-power company in this town 20 miles south of Burlington. He is also a rarity whose numbers state officials want to increase: an environmental engineer from outside Vermont who came here and put down roots. 
 State officials have begun a program to bring environmental engineering firms to the state and help those already here to expand. The goal, Gov. Jim Douglas and others said, is to transform Vermont into a state where growth is driven by green businesses, the way Silicon Valley is sustained by Internet and technology companies.
 ''We wanted to find a niche, an economic sector in which Vermont can excel,'' Mr. Douglas, a Republican, said in an interview in his Montpelier office. ''Environmental engineering and sustainable technology is that niche. Vermont has a strong environmental ethic. We have clean air, no billboards.''
 While other states and cities, including New York and Chicago, are trying to attract green businesses with economic incentives like tax breaks, Vermont is banking on a mix of benefits that the state hopes will change its business profile, which was once dominated by the insurance industry.
 Vermont ranks 46th in the nation for its tax climate for business, according to the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research group. State officials said that across-the-board tax breaks were not being considered, and that they preferred a tailored approach, offering cash incentives tied to increasing employment and capital investments. The state also plans to adapt perks to individual businesses. For example, if water rates are a sticking point, the state will lower them. It is focusing on businesses with 20 to 100 employees for now.
 What makes Vermont's pitch unusual is that officials view the state itself as a lure for moving a company here or enlarging an existing one. Officials are trying to use the clean air, open space and connection to the earth, which brought early environmentalists here in the 1970s, to attract businesses.
 ''The values of Vermonters are so environmentally conscious, and globally this is what we're known for,'' said Frank Cioffi, the president of the Greater Burlington Industrial Corporation, an economic development group. ''It's a natural fit.'' 
 The state program, which Lt. Gov. Brian E. Dubie started in 2004 and Mr. Douglas has made the centerpiece of his administration, is also intended to cultivate homegrown brainpower in Vermont, which has been losing young people at a rapid clip. The state has the lowest birthrate in the nation, and the number of 20- to 34-year-olds has shrunk by 19 percent since 1990. 
 To help stem the tide, Mr. Douglas is proposing opening new math, science and technology high schools across the state and offering scholarships to students who stay in Vermont for college. Officials are also considering the feasibility of providing cellular and broadband access statewide by 2010. 
 The state is looking for help from the University of Vermont, where the Center for Emerging Technologies has been an incubator for environmental companies. ''There really wasn't a regional economy,'' said Daniel Mark Fogel, the university president, ''and the more we asked, the more we were confident that we really wanted to put a stake in the ground as a leader in environmental and sustainable technology.''
 While that stake has been planted, it is not fixed. Just under 1,000 people are employed in the 69 engineering firms that work in environmental fields statewide, with 27 of them dealing exclusively with alternative energy, according to the state office of business and economic development.
 Two large environmental engineering companies opened offices in Vermont last year: the URS Corporation, which is based in San Francisco, and Leggette, Brashears & Graham of Shelton, Conn. The Vermont Environmental Consortium, a nonprofit association of businesses, is growing.
 Some of the state's dairy farmers have also been turning into alternative energy entrepreneurs, harnessing the methane gas from cow manure and selling it as clean energy. Vermonters call it ''cow power,'' and think it can help the farmers, who are struggling with low prices.
 Still, the state has been losing jobs, and there are tangential costs to doing business in Vermont.
 Northern Power Systems, an environmental engineering firm founded here in 1974, was recently merged with Proton Energy Systems; both were subsidiaries of the Distributed Energy Systems Corporation of Wallingford, Conn., which announced in January that it was cutting 60 jobs. Most of those were in Vermont, said Rob Smart, the director of marketing for Northern Power. 
 The Bowles Corporation, which makes equipment to clean up industrial oil spills, has operated here since 1983, expanding from two employees to 16. Its president, David Bowles, has become involved in helping the state's environmental companies market their products. But he said there were problems in how the state does business, and he, too, felt hemmed in. He also said Vermont suffered because of tourists and others who opposed development.
 ''It's not easy, but I'm here,'' he said. ''The tax burden is high, and the costs of health insurance have just risen and risen. And there's a sort of philosophical disconnect between people who love this view of Vermont as an unspoiled place where business doesn't mix. But if we don't have jobs, this place doesn't work.''
 Joel Makower, the executive editor of GreenBiz.com, said that Vermont was jumping on the bandwagon, trying to capitalize on a rapidly growing industry. ''You can certainly see that there's a bubble potential, but at the same time you're talking about a trillion-dollar market for clean energy and alternative transportation,'' he said.
 Mr. Makower said the state needed to build on its academic and financial resources and tap its entrepreneurs for help. While Northern Power has gone through setbacks, he said, it was well regarded and has had ample investment.
 ''I see them as a good anchor company, showing what can be done in the Green Mountains,'' he said.
 Mr. Cioffi, of the Greater Burlington Industrial Corporation, and others involved in the effort to make Vermont a center for green business say they are confident that their vision will take shape.
 ''This is orchard planting,'' Mr. Cioffi said. ''It's not an annual garden. We're nurturing seedlings and making sure they're healthy.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALTERNATIVES -- Some dairy farms, like Blue Spruce Farm in Bridport, are selling methane gas from manure as clean energy.
 PEDALING -- Vermont wants to attract more ''green'' engineers like Dave Melichar, on bike, but David Bowles, right, says there are problems doing business there. (Photographs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (92%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UTILITY RATES (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); ETHICS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INSURANCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Weather; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Engineering and Engineers; Global Warming

PERSON: JIM DOUGLAS (79%) Katie Zezima; Jim (Gov) Douglas

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) VERMONT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (98%) Vermont

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



157 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Bills on Workers' Aid and Civil Confinement Pass

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 6 

 BODY:
The New York State Legislature passed a bill on Tuesday that would bring about a sweeping overhaul of the state's workers' compensation system. The State Assembly also passed a measure that would establish procedures to confine sex offenders civilly after their prison sentences, following the Senate's passage of the same bill on Monday. 
 The votes were expected because the governor and leaders of the Assembly and Senate announced that they had reached deals on both issues last week, after negotiators for Gov. Eliot Spitzer broke deadlocks on the two contentious topics, which had divided lawmakers for years. The governor must sign the bills within 10 days for them to become law.
''Like every parent, I have strong feelings about how to punish sexual predators for robbing children of their innocence,'' Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, said in a statement. ''This legislation not only implements civil commitment, but includes enhanced parole supervision and mandated treatment.'' 
 According to an unofficial vote count, 127 Assembly members voted in favor of the confinement bill and 19 against. Some lawmakers have said the confinement legislation encompasses too many offenders, infringes on civil liberties and could disproportionately affect minorities. 
 ''The Spitzer confinement laws should not become this administration's version of the unfair Rockefeller drug laws,'' said Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat who voted against the bill, during a debate on the Assembly floor. 
 Of the workers' compensation bill, Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for the governor, said, ''This landmark reform demonstrates real progress toward improving the state's business climate and is a critical piece of the governor's economic revitalization agenda.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION LAW (78%); PAROLE (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); PRISONS (77%); SENTENCING (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%) Sex Crimes; Law and Legislation; Sentences (Criminal); Workers' Compensation Insurance

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



158 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE LIBBY VERDICT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Members of a Sympathetic Jury Describe an Emotional but Inevitable Conclusion

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Reporting was contributed by Suevon Lee and Sarah Abruzzese, and research by Barclay Walsh and Sabrina Pacifici.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6 

 BODY:
One juror, Rosemary Russo, a government lawyer, described it as an ''emotional'' decision that left some jurors in tears.
 ''I don't think it was an easy decision for any of us,'' Ms. Russo said. ''I think anyone who was in the room when the decision was made saw that the jury was teared up.''
But another juror, Denis Collins, a former Washington Post reporter, said that after 10 days of meticulous examination of the evidence, the verdict was inevitable. 
 ''There was no big hammer that came down,'' Mr. Collins said. ''It was just the arithmetic of it became obvious.''
 As the days passed, the brown-paneled walls of the deliberation room where I. Lewis Libby Jr.'s fate would be decided filled up with photographs of the witnesses and 34 large Post-it notes summarizing every critical piece of their testimony. 
 Those pieces of evidence became the building blocks leading to the jury's conclusion: that Mr. Libby was guilty of perjury and obstruction of justice.
 The two jurors who talked after the verdict described how they came almost reluctantly to the decision, with Mr. Collins saying Mr. Libby had been ''the fall guy'' for the administration.
 But they said it was just too much of a leap for them to think that Mr. Libby's contradictory accounts were the result of a bad memory. 
 ''There was no wiggle room about it, unless you think all these people who work for the administration were lying,'' said Mr. Collins, who emerged as a de facto spokesman for the 11-member jury and later discussed the verdict in a phone interview.
 From early on, he said, he considered Mr. Libby a decent person, worthy of their sympathy. And he wondered why other senior Bush administration officials were not facing trial in the disclosure of a C.I.A. operative's identity.
 ''Where is Rove? Where are these other guys?'' Mr. Collins said, referring to President Bush's senior adviser, Karl Rove. ''I wish we weren't judging Libby.''
 The jury that convicted Mr. Libby was a well-educated group, including an investment banker with a doctorate in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the financial manager of a Washington law firm, and their detailed-oriented, collaborative journey through the evidence reflected that.
 Inside the deliberation room, two long tables were pushed together and the blinds closed to block the sun, with the jurors only occasionally peeking outside to dream about running out and picking up a hot dog from a cart in the nearby plaza.
 The jury agreed not to try to take initial votes of their disposition toward convicting Mr. Libby. Instead, they undertook a laborious review of all the testimony, even grading the witnesses and marking down reasons whether or not to believe what each one said.
 ''Motivation to tell the truth? Motivation to lie?'' Mr. Collins said, recalling the list of questions they went through for each witness. ''Believability? State of mind?''
 Ari Fleischer, the former press secretary for President Bush, was deemed ''credible,'' Mr. Collins said, given how ''brutally honest'' he was, since he testified that reporters would not listen to him when he tried to pitch an article that might support the administration's views. 
 ''Why would he make himself look bad on purpose?'' Mr. Collins said of Mr. Fleischer's testimony.
 One particularly important focus, Mr. Collins said, was testimony about a conversation Mr. Libby had with Tim Russert, the Washington bureau chief of NBC News. Mr. Libby had said Mr. Russert told him about Valerie Wilson's job with the Central Intelligence Agency around July 10 or July 11, 2003. 
 Although Mr. Libby acknowledged that he had heard earlier about Ms. Wilson from his boss, Vice President Dick Cheney, he said he had forgotten about it until the July exchange with Mr. Russert, when ''it was like hearing it for the first time.''
 The jury considered carefully the testimony that Mr. Libby's memory was faulty, Mr. Collins said, especially the suggestion from his aide, John Hannah, that he often could not recall, in a single day, who had told him what.
 But the nine separate conversations involving eight people who claimed that Mr. Libby had talked about or participated in an exchange about Ms. Wilson with them -- at least some before the conversation with Mr. Russert -- were just too convincing, Mr. Collins said.
 ''One of the jurors said, 'If I am told something once, I am likely to forget it,' '' Mr. Collins recalled. '' 'But if I am told it many times, it is much less likely I will forget it. And if I tell it to someone else, that is even more unlikely.' ''
 The deliberations progressed with almost no political undertones, Mr. Collins said. In fact, he said, he did not know the party affiliation of any of the other jurors until after they reached their verdict, when three jurors volunteered that they were registered as independents.
 There also was no discussion about the subtext of the trial -- the decision to go to war against Iraq. 
 ''This was not a question about who can we punish for going to Iraq,'' said Mr. Collins, 57, a registered Democrat. ''We just never allowed ourselves to go there, and I am not going to go there now.''
 Even though Mr. Libby never testified at the trial, the jury had access to eight hours of his grand jury testimony, which earned him a fair amount of sympathy as they listened to him politely answer questions.
 ''We are not saying that we did not think that Mr. Libby was not guilty of these things,'' Mr. Collins said. But he then added, ''He was the fall guy. He made bad judgments.''
 The two main lawyers in the case, Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the prosecutor, and Theodore V. Wells Jr., for the defense, had radically different styles, but both were effective in their own ways, Mr. Collins said. 
 ''They were each just working with what they were given,'' he said, ''and the way it came out we just thought that Fitzgerald was given a lot more, he had a lot more to work with.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday with an article about jury deliberations in the trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr. misspelled the given name of a juror in some copies. As the article noted, he is Denis Collins, not Dennis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The arithmetic of it became obvious,'' Denis Collins said of the verdict. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)Chart: ''The Libby Jury''Information about the jury revealed in questioning during jury selection.OCCUPATION: Web architect, General Services AdministrationOn Iraq: ''It's a very troubling situation that the country is in.''OCCUPATION: Investment banker and Ph.D. economistHas a Ph.D. from M.I.T. Worked at the Council of Economic Advisers for a year in the Clinton administration.OCCUPATION: Retired math teacherOn President Bush: ''I don't always agree with his Iraq policy. . . . I would have gone in with 500,000 troops.''OCCUPATION: Denis Collins, Former Washington Post reporterOn Iraq: ''I'm very skeptical about everything I hear until I see it backed up.''OCCUPATION: Rosemary Russo, consumer protection lawyerWorks at the Federal Trade Commission. Reported no opinions on the Iraq war or the Bush administration.OCCUPATION: Dept. of Health and Human Services workerWorks on international health issues. Said she was not ''particularly impressed'' with Vice President Dick Cheney.OCCUPATION: Hotel sales workerDescribed herself as ''master of all things celebrity gossip,'' but said she did not follow current affairs.OCCUPATION: Comptroller for a law firmWorks for Hogan & Hartson, Washington's largest law firm. Reported no ''strong opinion'' on the war in Iraq.OCCUPATION: Administrator at agency for the elderlyOn Iraq: ''I think Bush was not candid.''OCCUPATION: Retired postal workerAsked if she watched ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, she replied, ''No, I'm in church.''OCCUPATION: Retired nonprofit administrator
 formerly in the Air ForceOn Iraq: ''I don't think they have been truthful or forthright about the real reasons for engaging.''(Source by legaltimes.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); VERDICTS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (85%); IRAQ WAR (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); JURY DUTY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Perjury; Intelligence Services; Classification of Information; Uranium ; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%) Central Intelligence Agency; Federal Bureau of Investigation

PERSON: KARL ROVE (63%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Eric Lipton; I Lewis Jr Libby; Karl Rove; Valerie Plame Wilson; Joseph C Iv Wilson; Denis Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq; Niger

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



159 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Seeks to Limit Mortgage Agencies

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, urged Congress on Tuesday to bolster regulation of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and suggested limiting their holdings to guard against their debt posing any danger to the overall economy. 
 Mr. Bernanke has previously supported efforts to pare the two mortgage companies' huge portfolios. This time, however, he was a bit more specific and recommended that their holdings might be linked to a ''measurable public purpose, such as the promotion of affordable housing.''
The Fed chief's suggestion was contained in remarks delivered via satellite to a bankers' meeting in Hawaii.
 Worries about risky mortgages are making investors jittery, and contributed to last week's worldwide stock sell-off, including a 416-point plunge for the Dow Jones industrials.
 Lenders to subprime borrowers -- people with poor credit histories -- have been battered. Rising interest rates and weak home prices have made it increasingly difficult for these borrowers, especially those with adjustable-rate mortgages, to keep up with their payments. Against this backdrop, Mr. Bernanke said he wanted to be clear that by suggesting the change in Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's portfolio holdings, he was not advocating a change in the exposure of the mortgage giants' subprime loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (68%) Housing; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Mortgages; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Freddie Mac; Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007



160 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: India: Pressure Grows for Cut in Wine Tariffs

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Pressure mounted to cut import duties on wine and spirits after the United States said it had joined the European Union in asking the World Trade Organization to intervene in the matter. Mariann Fischer Boel, the agriculture commissioner for the union, who was in New Delhi, was set to meet the Indian commerce minister, Kamal Nath, to press the issue. On Tuesday, the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said Washington had filed a complaint with the W.T.O. on the tariffs, which are seen abroad as unfair trade barriers. India's basic import duties of 100 percent on wine and 150 percent on spirits are within the W.T.O. limits, but federal surcharges and state-level taxes take the tariff up to 540 percent in some cases. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%) Alcoholic Beverages; International Trade and World Market; Wines; Customs (Tariff)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union; World Trade Organization

PERSON: Mariann Fischer Boel; Kamal (Min) Nath

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%) Europe; India

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



161 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Fed Notes a Modest Slowdown in Growth

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
In Hawaii, hotel bookings are down slightly. In Texas, the frenzied pace of expansion in the energy industry has slowed. In New York, demand for all types of loans is off. 
 While a ''modest expansion'' continued in most regions of the country from early January to late February, the Federal Reserve said yesterday that several areas have noticed a slowdown in growth.
The findings, contained in the Fed's beige book report on regional economic activity, were consistent with other recent reports that have detected a downshift in the economy. The beige book -- called that because of the color of its jacket -- described the pace of expansion in a tone noticeably less upbeat than in previous reports. 
 But analysts said the report was not likely to cause any shift in tone from Fed members, who have recently described the state of the economy as slowing but steady. 
 Indeed, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Michael H. Moskow, speaking yesterday in Chicago, said that the economy was ''quite strong,'' and that it was ''much too early to say inflation is no longer a concern.''
 Economists from Goldman Sachs said in a research note that the beige book ''presents a slight downgrade of the economic outlook from the January version, though the overall change in position is not large.'' 
 The beige book described a housing industry with two very different halves. Real estate and construction were generally poor for residential agents and developers, but generally solid for those selling commercial properties. 
 The report noted that ''housing markets remained weak in almost all districts,'' but that the slide was starting to level off somewhat. In Washington, where the overbuilt condominium market has been in decline, condo sales and listings rose. House prices also held steady for the most part there, the report said. In New Jersey, home builders said that the market for new homes had stabilized. 
 In Manhattan, the rental market tightened. One large real estate firm said that rents had eclipsed the highs set in 1999 and 2000.
 Still, the overall picture of the housing market was one of unabated decline. Home prices were ''generally flat or declining,'' the report said. In the Dallas-Fort Worth area, investors were pulling out and inventories of unsold new homes were rising. 
 In the Chicago district, homeowners were taking their homes off the market to wait for a better time to sell, and condo developers were waiting to start projects until they had sold enough units. 
 Manufacturing was another sector of the economy that has had two faces recently. The report described residential construction and auto production as generally weak, while other industries -- steel and aircraft, for example -- were strong in some areas.
 The report noted, for example, Nissan's plans to reduce jobs at two plants in Tennessee, and ''significant layoffs'' in the St. Louis district at plants that produce automobiles, plastics and household appliances. 
 At the same time, factories in the Kansas City district that produce machinery and high-tech equipment reported ''robust activity.'' Food producers in the Dallas district reported stronger than expected demand.
 The labor market remained generally strong, the report said, with pay rising and particularly high demand for skilled and professional workers. In the Philadelphia district, employers in a number of industries said they had to offer bigger raises than last year to hire and retain workers. 
 In North Dakota, a food processor reported having to recruit workers from out of state. And in Montana, which is experiencing a boom in its energy industry and an influx of retirees, a construction contractor described the labor market there as the tightest in three decades.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Slight Growth in Most Regions''A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data is for Jan. 9-Feb. 26.MINNEAPOLISAn increase in consumer spending, manufacturing, agriculture and commercial real estate bolstered the region's economy.SAN FRANCISCOEconomic activity was modest. ''Upward price pressures remained modest and eased further in some sectors.''CHICAGOCommercial construction and home building softened. An increase in corn and soybean prices hurt livestock and dairy producers.CLEVELANDA slump in the region's housing and auto industries ''tempered growth'' in other sectors, like home building and retailing.BOSTONManufacturers and staffing firms reported mixed results. Retail sales were down from a year ago.NEW YORKEconomic growth was steady, but there were hints of ''deceleration'' in some sectors, including housing.PHILADELPHIAThe region's economy improved despite a dip in auto and home sales. Manufacturing remained steady.RICHMOND, VA.Growth in the service sector was offset by a decrease in domestic auto sales and manufacturing shipments.ATLANTAResidential construction and home sales were weak. Retailers reported little change in sales. Auto sales were ''sluggish.''ST. LOUISMixed home sales and a ''weakness in manufacturing'' adversely affected regional economic activity.KANSAS CITY, MO.Inclement weather limited growth in consumer spending. Residential real estate steadied.DALLASEconomic activity reflected a decline in manufacturing and housing. Energy activity remained ''robust,'' but relaxed slightly.(Source by Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Consumer Borrowing''Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted.Graph shows annual pace of changeJan.: + 3.2%Dec.: + 2.5Nov.: +10.3(Source by Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (86%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); HOME PRICES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); LAYOFFS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Real Estate; Building (Construction); Housing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); 7201 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%)

PERSON: Michael H Moskow; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



162 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: With Coal Plans Cut Back, Texas Faces Energy Gap

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 2 

 BODY:
Texas, as everyone knows, does everything big. Its giant oil and gas fields dominate America's energy patch. It is now the nation's largest wind power producer, with more than 2,000 turbines gathering some of the country's strongest currents. It gets the booby prize for being the biggest producer of greenhouse gases. 
 And now Texas faces a big hole in its electricity production, since the country's second-most-populous state also happens to be one of the fastest growing because of immigration and the rise in riches from the recent increase in oil and gas prices. 
That hole just got bigger as the TXU Corporation, the state's biggest utility, scrapped plans for eight new coal-fired plants under a deal it has agreed to with potential new owners. The deal has delighted many environmentalists, but it has also stoked one Texas-sized problem.
 Unless new generation is built quickly from some source, Texas energy production in 2009 will fall below reserves recommended by the state operator of the power transmission grid for guaranteeing smooth operations during peak periods of high heat. 
 Texas officials must figure out how to replace the 6,000 megawatts that TXU's former plan would have added to the grid, equivalent to about 10 percent of the state's current installed capacity. This comes as the state's population is expected to grow by 20 percent, to nearly 30 million people, over the next decade. 
 The decisions Texas makes are likely to have national repercussions given that the state's economy is the second largest, after California. Texas is a national trendsetter, and the choices it makes on how to use its natural gas and coal are likely to have an impact on electricity rates far beyond its borders.
 ''It's a moment when Texas energy markets will need to experiment with many different alternative energy options,'' said Kenneth B. Medlock III, a fellow in energy studies at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University. ''The cancellation of the eight plants will solidify the leadership role Texas takes in developing energy supply for the entire country.''
 TXU might not have received regulatory approval of the eight plants in the first place, but the cancellation of the plants has investors in natural gas, nuclear and renewable energy sources poised for new opportunities. 
 Environmentalists and some state officials see an opening for renewable energy in a state that is already the national pacesetter in wind energy production. About 4 percent of the state's power is now produced by wind and other renewable sources, and state officials say they expect a quadrupling of wind power generation in the next 20 years.
 ''Wind has the potential to help fill the shortfall,'' said Jerry Patterson, the Texas land commissioner, whose responsibilities include leasing state lands for wind energy development. ''Every day that passes, renewables make more economic sense.'' 
 Texas now produces 2,800 megawatts of energy a year from wind, enough to serve 500,000 homes. Mr. Patterson said an additional 2,000 megawatts would come online by 2009. Most of the production now occurs in the blustery Panhandle, but two offshore farms are in the planning stages and should be online by the beginning of the next decade. 
 Still, few experts think enough renewable power can be developed quickly enough, given the lack of transmission capacity and high costs. Natural gas, which provides nearly half the state's electricity, is set for another surge because gas plants can generally be built faster than nuclear or coal facilities.
 In the 1990s, cheap natural gas replaced coal as the favorite choice of Texas utilities. But as natural gas prices rose in recent years, utilities turned to coal, which now provides about 37 percent of the state's power.
 Texas still produces more natural gas than it consumes, although it cannot consume too much of it without affecting supplies and perhaps even utility prices in much of the rest of the country. 
 ''If Texas is going to consume more gas, that means we export less to other states,'' said Charles Reimer, president of Freeport LNG. 
 Permits have been granted for a string of liquefied natural gas terminals, rejected in other parts of the country for environmental and security reasons, and they are being built on the Texas and Louisiana coasts. They will help replace some of the lost coal power with imported gas.
 Investors are drawing up plans to add to the state's two nuclear power plants, which now supply about 13 percent of its electricity. Nuclear represents a full third of the power that could be produced in power generation projects currently being reviewed by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or Ercot, the industry organization that administers most of the state power grid.
 Although there is no telling how much of that will ever make it off the drawing board, most analysts see a bright future for nuclear in the state.
 ''There is nowhere for nuclear to go but up in Texas,'' said Pat Wood III, former chairman of both the Public Utility Commission of Texas and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
 Texas utilities will be forced to be more creative. TXU says it will reopen several mothballed natural gas plants to increase production. It plans to more than double its current purchases of wind power, to more than 1,500 megawatts, as part of the deal in its buyout, and will invest $400 million in various conservation programs and incentives for consumers to lower use during peak hours.
 Even without the eight proposed coal-fired plants that TXU jettisoned, other new coal plants are still in the planning stages. TXU has three coal plants waiting for regulatory approval, and at least six more are proposed by several private and municipal power companies.
 Energy officials say they believe state regulators will approve many of them to avert an energy crisis. 
 ''We've got to have renewable energy, more conservation and more plants,'' said John Fainter, president and chief executive of the Association of Electric Companies of Texas, a trade group. ''There are no silver bullets. We are going to have a lot of construction well into the future.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Texas is the nation's biggest producer of electricity from wind. (Photo by David Bowser ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); UTILITY RATES (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DIVESTITURES (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) Electric Light and Power; Windmills; Production; Coal; Factories and Industrial Plants; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Txu Corp; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Texas Pacific Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (70%)

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



163 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Still Waiting for the Future of Leisure to Arrive

BYLINE: By HAL R. VARIAN. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
In 1930 the British economist John Maynard Keynes predicted that the biggest problem facing future generations would be what to do with all their leisure time.
 Well, here we are in Keynes's future: Where is that leisure we were promised?
Though the average hours at work have certainly decreased in the last century, it doesn't necessarily follow that leisure has increased, since nonlabor time is not necessarily leisure. Any attempt to compare changes in leisure over long periods of time has to confront some tricky issues of definition. 
 The most recent attempt to examine long-term trends in leisure is by two economists, Valerie A. Ramey of the University of California, San Diego, and Neville Francis of the University of North Carolina. Next time you get a chance, you can download the paper from http://www.econ.ucsd.edu/vramey/research/Historical--Hours.pdf.But if you never find the time, it's no wonder. According to Ms. Ramey and Mr. Francis, the amount of leisure time per capita hasn't changed much in the last 105 years.
 Since this view is at odds with a number of other studies, it is worth going over their analysis to see how they reach this somewhat surprising conclusion.
 Many other studies have looked at leisure of the ''working-age population.'' The trouble with this approach is that the definition of ''working age'' has changed substantially in the last 100 years. According to the 1910 census, 25 percent of male children 10 to 15 years old were full-time workers. That fraction is considerably smaller today.
 But if we include children and teenagers when we compute per capita leisure, how should we count time spent in school? In 1910, only 10 percent of children 14 to 17 years old were enrolled in high school while by 2003, 95 percent of this age group were in school. In the same period, the number of school days increased to more than 160 a year from fewer than 100. 
 A result is that children's leisure time has gone up, but not by much. According to Ms. Ramey and Mr. Francis, 70 percent of the reduction in work hours has been offset by increased hours in school.
 But are band practice and gym classes labor or leisure? What is leisure anyway?
 The economists offer an interesting answer to this almost metaphysical question. According to them, leisure activities are those that give direct enjoyment. So all we have to do is to figure out what sorts of activities people enjoy.
 Luckily, the Survey Research Center at the University of Maryland conducted a survey in 1985 in which people were asked to rate how much they enjoyed various activities on a scale of 1 to 10. ''Sex'' came in first, with a score of 9.3, followed by ''sports'' at 9.2. ''Housecleaning'' is near the bottom of the list, with a score of 4.9.
 Child care is an interesting category in that ''play with kids'' ranked near the top at 8.8, but ''taking kids to the doctor or dentist'' is near the bottom at 4.7. Hence, the economists count child care as partly leisure and partly labor.
 What about housework? Given its 4.9 rating, it can't really be considered leisure time. Advances in technology have made housework much less onerous and time-consuming than it once was: a century ago it took four hours to do a load of laundry and 4.5 hours to iron it. Today it takes 41 minutes to wash a load of laundry, and modern fabrics need much less ironing.
 But since the time necessary to do a given amount of housework has gone down, people have chosen to do more of it. One hundred years ago, it was a luxury to have clean clothes, a tidy house and a cooked meal. Today these things are viewed as necessities of life.
 Based on available evidence, it seems that housekeeping involved about 56 hours a week in 1912. This fell to 52 hours a week by 1920 and stayed constant until 1965; it then declined again, dropping to 45 hours a week by 1975, and has been relatively constant since. 
 If we were willing to settle for the standards of nutrition, health and cleanliness that prevailed in 1900, much less labor would be required. But, as Betty Friedan has said in ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ''housewifery expands to fill the time available.''
 When you account for the much longer time in school, the more or less constant amount of time spent on housework, and make a few other adjustments, hours spent on purely enjoyable activities haven't changed that much in the last century. Keynes may have been right that future generations will have a lot of time on their hands, but I wouldn't bet on that happening anytime soon.
 By the way, reading the newspaper seems to be a mildly pleasurable activity, with a score of 7.8. This puts it just behind ''lunch break'' and slightly ahead of ''knitting and sewing.'' Of course, different parts of the paper may be more enjoyable than others. Reading Economic Scene may never be as good as ''sex,'' but perhaps we can aspire someday to beating out ''lunch break.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (86%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%) Labor; Working Hours; Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%)

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Valerie A Ramey; Neville Francis; John Maynard (1883-1946) Keynes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



164 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: 2 Big Issuers to Ease Some Card Penalties

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase & Company and Citigroup, two of the nation's largest credit-card issuers, told Congressional lawmakers on Wednesday that they were changing some cardholder rates and fees that lawmakers say unfairly hurt consumers. 
 JPMorgan will stop charging customers who exceed their credit limit a penalty after 90 days, Richard Srednicki, chief executive officer of Chase Card Services, told a Senate subcommittee in Washington. A Citigroup executive said his company decided last week to stop raising interest rates on cardholders who miss payments to other lenders.
 The hearing is the second the Senate has held on the credit-card industry this year, a sign that Democrats who control Congress are putting increased emphasis on consumer issues. The recent policy changes suggest the pressure is having an effect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (88%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Credit and Money Cards; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection; Interest Rates

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan, J P, Chase & Co; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



165 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Out of Jail, Out of Options, Out on a Limb

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
Con EdBy Matthew Klein285 pages. Warner Books. $23.99.
 There's no great case to be made for Matthew Klein's ''Con Ed,'' a bright swindling-scam comedy set in the world of the Internet nouveau-riche. It's not a groundbreaking book. It's just funny, full of tricks and very, very hard to put down.
In other words ''Con Ed'' makes perfect airplane reading, not least because its satirical targets are the kinds of people who have their own planes. By contrast its narrator is lucky to be a passenger on any form of public conveyance, since the ability to travel freely is a novelty to him. 
 He's a seasoned (to put it nicely), paunchy, 54-year-old con artist named Kip Largo, and he has done time in a California prison for one of his failed schemes. It involved the sale of a diet product, and most of what Kip did was reasonably well-intentioned. He's not likely to make that mistake again.
 ''You don't remember the Kip Largo boom?'' he asks the reader. Well, there was one. Kip was worth millions then; now he subsists on home-heated spaghetti dinners at $3.49 a pop and works at a dry cleaner for $10 an hour, plus tips. ''You ever leave a tip at a dry cleaners?'' he asks. ''That's what I thought.''
 Mr. Klein, who has some firsthand knowledge about living in Silicon Valley and flopping in the world of venture capital and technology start-ups, begins by establishing Kip's checkered history. Then he plants Kip in picturesque Palo Alto. ''On all four sides are beautiful gated condominium buildings where one-bedrooms go for half a million dollars,'' he says. ''My place is old, cheap stucco, with an open carport in the front, like the neighborhood cold sore.'' 
 From inside this tenuously rented haven (the landlord's grandson-in-law would love to evict him), Kip runs an online vitamin sales operation that has so far brought him nothing more than a bouncing pill as a screen saver. ''It's totally legitimate,'' he says of this business. ''Unfortunately.'' But 800 bottles of vitamins are stockpiled, ready to go. ''In the unlikely event that the world ever switches to a selenium-based economy, I will become a very rich man.'' 
 As this setup is introduced, the elements of an elaborate scheme begin to appear. The book starts in a bar, where Kip sadly watches an amateur crook fail miserably at setting up a scam. This draws Kip's professional sympathies: ''It's like what would happen if Renoir went to one of those art schools advertised on the back of a matchbook.'' Despite himself, he wants to help the stranger who louses up. 
 Less eagerly he needs to help his own son, Toby, who appears at Kip's little sanctuary needing a place to stay. ''Toby has the stupid Gotcha! grin of a 15-year-old boy,'' Kip explains, with his version of fatherly affection. ''Unfortunately for both of us, Toby is 25 years old.''
 Toby is in trouble because he's run up gambling debts. ''There is only one thing Toby can do to avoid having his brains knocked out of his skull by Russian goons,'' Kip reasons. ''He must build a time machine in my garage.'' Failing that, Toby must prompt his father to swing back into con-man mode to get the kid out of a jam.
 Along comes the fall guy who will figure in Kip's plotting: Edward Napier, whose wife turned up in the opening bar scene asking Kip to help her escape her husband's clutches. Napier is a gambling magnate, with a lavish, heaven-theme hotel in Las Vegas that the book merrily skewers. He's also the kind of guy who appears to be active in business but is diverted each day by wine and golf around lunchtime. In light of this work ethic Napier is a good target for a get-richer-quick scheme, and the plan calls for an attractive woman to pique his interest. 
 Kip enlists Jessica, a onetime porn actress whose body has been made to look ''less like a boast and more like a promise,'' so that she can pass for an Internet executive type. ''She radiates a quiet sexiness,'' Kip says admiringly, ''like the voluptuous PTA mom whose comments about homework and field trips are met with clamorous applause by all the fathers in the auditorium.''
 ''Con Ed'' is distinguished from countless routine books in its genre by the other kinds of elements that Kip's scheme requires. He knows how to use dizzying arrays of computer equipment in ways that are bewitching, even psychedelic, to potential investors. Kip's knowledge of the stock market also figures prominently in his plans. 
 And he uses Silicon Valley jargon (''massively parallel computing''), wardrobe (chinos and chambray shirt to suggest an entrepreneur, ''Code Warrior'' T-shirt for the programming geek) and manners to amusing effect. He knows his Northern California turf, from its near-religious faith in the Internet to its lock-step sedateness. ''I know a Black Panther who settled here in 1972, with an Afro the size of a cosmonaut's helmet,'' he says. ''Thirty years later, he's a white man who shops at Whole Foods for organic barley.'' 
 As ''Con Ed'' and its sting plot gather momentum, the book poses a constant threat: that Kip will use this situation to seek redemption, become a great father, right his past wrongs. Happily, Mr. Klein shows no signs of a sentimental side. And he keeps his story largely surprising, with the exception of one major jolt that is too easily foreseen. 
 But even when it veers near heavily commercial storytelling (there's a bit of Janet Evanovich in Mr. Klein's ever-wisecracking tone), this book and its narrator are great fun. When Kip at last finds himself talking to law enforcement officials and one female officer sounds motherly (''I think we're being very fair''), Kip's comeback is perfect. ''Where were you 50 years ago,'' he asks, ''when I needed you most?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew Klein (Photo by David Nicholas) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); EVICTION (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (67%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Janet Maslin; Matthew Klein

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



166 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Rise In City Unemployment

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
The unemployment rate in New York City rose in January, after a year in which the job markets in the city and state were even stronger than initially reported, the State Department of Labor said yesterday. The rate of joblessness in the city, adjusted for seasonal fluctuation, was 4.9 percent in January, up from 4.4 percent in December. The state's unemployment rate rose to 4.3 percent, from 4.1 percent in December, but was still lower than the national rate of 4.6 percent in January. The Labor Department revised its year-end figures for 2006 to show that the number of private sector jobs in the city increased by 2 percent during the year, matching the national rate. The city accounted for more than half of the new nonfarm jobs in the state in 2006. PATRICK McGEEHAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (73%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



167 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2588 words

HEADLINE: Through Mayor's Open Doors, Many Problems, Not All Solved

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 7 

 BODY:
Annie Miller came seeking a pass on a parking ticket. Ed Wadood needed a mayoral blessing for a local golf tournament. Roberta Ware, driven by a religious vision, beseeched Mayor Cory A. Booker to spread the Gospel to the city's wayward youth. Rasjohn Warren, an ex-convict, was looking for work. 
 They and scores of others waited as long as two hours at a high school auditorium last week for a few face-to-face moments with the man who might change their lives -- or at least fix their potholes. Mr. Booker, who arrived in City Hall last summer promising accessibility, spent the afternoon perched on a student-sized chair, doling out advice and the occasional admonishment, his eyes welling up at the tales of woe. Everyone left with a hug and a lollipop.
''Something good is going to happen,'' said Mr. Warren, 27, who was released from prison in 2003 after serving two years on drug charges. ''I mean, this guy can make things happen for you.'' 
 But while Mr. Warren and dozens of others left the Malcolm X Shabazz High School auditorium full of hope, the reality is that the mayor and his aides have not made much happen for many of the people who came before them to such ''office hours'' sessions, in which Mr. Booker makes himself available to all comers.
 Over all, Mr. Booker estimated that his office had helped 30 percent of those who had come to the 10 office hours so far, and he said he made no guarantees at these sessions. 
 Interviews with two dozen people who met with him in September, October and December show that few have had the problems they presented resolved; some said they did not even get a follow-up phone call. Of the 24 people randomly chosen from the 640 who attended those three six-hour sessions, half said that after they initially heard from a Booker aide, their subsequent calls to the mayor's office have gone unreturned. 
 In addition to four people seeking employment, the 24 included a former city employee hoping to collect $1,700 in back pay, an elderly woman trying to stave off eviction, a newsstand owner asking the city not to remove his kiosks to make way for a street-improvement project, and Carmen Munoz, who asked in November that sanitation officials clean up city-owned land near her home that is a magnet for illegal dumping. 
 ''I'm tired of calling City Hall about it,'' Ms. Munoz said last week, standing opposite the property, strewn with construction debris, worn-out tires and a dead cat. Told that the lot remained a mess, Mayor Booker expressed surprise and frustration of his own, saying that such cleanups were a high priority of his administration.
 Some requests, like Ricardo Warren's demand that the police find the killer of his 15-year-old daughter, Deena, are beyond a politician's reach. Others, like Trisha Scipio-Derrick's plea for the demolition of a drug-infested housing project near her home, were admittedly wishful thinking. ''I knew it was a long shot,'' said Ms. Scipio-Derrick, who brought her 11-year-old daughter, Jasmine, to meet the mayor. ''I'm still his biggest fan.'' 
 For David Johnston, who served four years in prison for selling drugs and showed up at two different office-hours sessions to press the mayor for work as a city boiler operator, the initial sense of promise has given way to a simmering resentment. ''If you can't help me, then what are you there for?'' asked Mr. Johnston, 38. ''I can't wait until the next election because guys like me won't be voting for Cory Booker.''
 The mayor said that it would be impossible to fulfill the needs of everyone who comes to see him, and that the point of the sessions was ''not necessarily about solving their problem but helping them recognize their ability to solve their own problem.''
 Mr. Booker's office hours were held every other week at first, but were scaled back to once a month. At each one, aides use cards to write down the complaints, and are supposed to later note on them how they followed up. Regardless of results, the mayor said, there is value in listening to people's troubles and giving them words of encouragement. 
 From time to time during office hours, Mr. Booker pulls a few dollars from his pocket for someone's bus fare. If a job seeker has a valuable skill or obvious fire in the belly, he may direct an aide to see what can be arranged -- or, as he did last week with Taron Price, 33, whip open his cellphone and set up an appointment at a job-training center. But the mayor said his advice and offers of assistance were often misconstrued as promises. 
 ''People hear what they want to hear,'' he said. ''It's frustrating sometimes because people have unrealistic expectations of what we can do for them.''
 The free-for-all encounters are emblematic of Mr. Booker's approach to governing, with its emphasis on transparency and access, and his in-the-trenches political style, which led him to live for years in a dilapidated housing project and has sent him speeding to crime scenes in the middle of the night. 
 But where his friends see the office hours as a manifestation of Mr. Booker's deep-seated belief that he can solve all that afflicts this city and its 280,000 residents, the pragmatists in his administration worry that such sessions further heighten expectations and can only lead to disappointment and disenchantment. 
 Kenneth Gibson, who was Newark's mayor from 1970 to 1986, said that because of the city's relatively small size, many residents feel a personal connection to the mayor and thus expect too much. ''Most people have no real understanding of the limitations of the job,'' Mr. Gibson observed.
 In a city with 10 percent unemployment, where City Hall has been the largest employer since the decline of industry in the 1960s and '70s, the mayor has long been seen as job-dispenser-in-chief. But while the last mayor, Sharpe James, embraced that role in his 20-year reign, swelling the municipal payroll around election time, the Booker administration has been troubled by budget woes and has been shrinking the 5,000-person work force.
 Jermaine James, the mayor's deputy chief of staff, said the city hired 123 people and let go 93 in recent months; one person in the long line last week was Sylvia Hale, 56, an administrative secretary who was laid off from the city's housing authority in the fall. 
 ''I'm going to look inside City Hall and see what I can do,'' Mr. Booker told Ms. Hale.
 From the first office-hours session to last week's, jobs have been the most common request -- from ex-convicts like Mr. Warren, from recovering heroin addicts like Shawanda Christian and from devoted campaign volunteers like Jimmy Mitchell.
 Ms. Christian, meek and jittery, had just gotten out of a five-day drug detox program when she showed up to see Mr. Booker on Oct. 23. The mayor became emotional when he heard about her struggle to stay sober and her failed attempts to find work. Grabbing her hands, he said: ''I have a lot of faith in you. I can try to kick open doors to you, but ultimately you have to help yourself.'' 
 Ms. Christian, 36, said the mayor's secretary called twice to check up on her in the ensuing weeks, but did nothing to help her find long-term drug treatment or a job. She said she called the mayor's office twice after that but never heard back, and soon after Christmas, she began using drugs again.
 Terrance Bankston, Newark's director of constituent services, said he had no record that the mayor's secretary had reached out to Ms. Christian; he said the records show that aides tried twice to call the day after she met the mayor, but could not reach her.
 Mr. Mitchell, who was an unpaid driver for Mr. Booker during his last two campaigns, fumed as he waited nearly three hours in a high school auditorium to see the mayor in November. 
 ''I used to have the keys to his apartment; I still drive his parents around when they come to town,'' said Mr. Mitchell, 60, adding that he wanted a part-time job -- ''something, anything'' -- that would let him sit at a desk and collect $20,000. 
 In an interview last week, Mr. Mitchell said nothing had come of his numerous calls to Pablo Fonseca, the mayor's chief of staff. ''They could have created something for me,'' he said. ''When Election Day comes, I'm going to be on the other side.''
 Asked about Mr. Mitchell, who owns a car wash, the mayor said, ''Jimmy is like family, but City Hall is not in the business of creating employment for people, no matter how much they volunteered.''
 Not everyone asks for a job. Ronda Walton brought six relatives into an East Ward elementary school in November to tell the mayor that her 24-year-old son, Ronald, had been linked to a stash of cocaine found in the hallway of their housing project, leading to his arrest and firing from a job as a school bus attendant, and leaving the family under threat of eviction. Mr. Walton also claimed he had been roughed up by the police.
 Mr. Booker, seeming shaken, offered to find her son free legal representation, and told her, ''You've obviously done a good job keeping your kids out of trouble.'' But four months later, Ms. Walton said that after numerous calls to City Hall in which she spoke with four or five aides, she has given up. 
 ''He didn't follow through,'' she said of the mayor.
 Mr. Bankston, the mayor's constituent director, said that the office was still trying to help Ms. Walton, but that her son had failed to cooperate with investigators looking into his allegation.
 After seven months of practice, Mr. Booker's team has turned office hours into a smooth operation, with employees greeting people as they arrive and writing down the nature of their complaints -- or, for perhaps 1 in 10, compliments. These aides try to resolve issues before residents get an audience with the mayor; those seeking housing, for example, may be directed to a housing authority worker, although last week the housing officer was offering only apologies that the waiting list, years long, was reserved for the disabled and the elderly.
 The visitors were then ushered into the school's auditorium, where ''Fantastic Four,'' an action-adventure film about astronauts who gain superpowers, was projected onto a large screen. One by one, after a brief wait in a hallway, they were led to a cluster of student desks, where another aide took down contact information and a detailed account of the issue at hand. 
 Mr. Booker rotated among three desk clusters, barely pausing between each encounter. He listened to each petitioner with the empathetic mien of a therapist, though compared with earlier sessions, his responses were more measured. 
 When it came time to speak with Ishmael Bailey, four months out of prison and wielding a 10-page rap sheet that included drug and assault charges, Mr. Booker shook his head with frustration. Mr. Bailey said he had filled out 14 job applications to no avail, and hinted that he might be forced to return to crime if he did not get help. Mr. Booker said he would link Mr. Bailey to a nonprofit program for ex-offenders and challenged him to follow through. 
 ''I've got your phone number and I'm going to call you,'' Mr. Booker said. ''But you're going to have to do everything in your power to help yourself. There's only so much anyone, even a mayor, can do for you.''Darrin Ruth
 Mr. Ruth, a former payroll supervisor for the city's office of employment training, attended the office-hours session in November with his 8-year-old son to ask the mayor for a job and the $1,700 in back pay he said never showed up in his final paycheck. A temporary employee who worked in the job for eight months, Mr. Ruth, 46, was let go in November. He told the mayor that the agency's director had advised him to forget about the $1,700, saying, ''It's lost in a black hole.''
 Mr. Booker asked an aide to take Mr. Ruth's number and follow up within two weeks.
 Mr. Ruth said he never got a call. He said that he has been calling twice a week ever since, to be told only that his name is on a list of job candidates. ''I feel like I'm being railroaded,'' he said.
 Citing the slow wheels of bureaucracy, a spokeswoman for the mayor's office said it was still working to get his money.David Johnston
 An ex-convict who served four years for selling drugs, Mr. Johnston went to the office hours sessions in September and October to see the mayor about a job with the city maintaining boilers, work he has done before.
 Mayor Cory A. Booker said at the October session that he would see what he could do about Mr. Johnston's application at City Hall and encouraged him to be persistent. 
 ''I have faith in you,'' the mayor told him. ''Do you have faith in me?'' Mr. Johnston nodded, and the two embraced.
 In an interview, Mr. Johnston, 38, said he had called City Hall a half-dozen times and each time had been told that there was nothing available, but that his name was still on the hiring list. He has found a job as a truck driver for a private company, he said, but would still prefer a job with the city. 
 ''Cory told me to be persistent, and that's exactly what I'm going to do,'' he said. But he added that because of the lack of help, he was likely to support Mr. Booker's opponent in the next election.Apoon Awalla
 Mr. Awalla begged the mayor at the October office hours to stop the demolition of two newsstands he had operated at Broad and Market Streets, Newark's busiest intersection, since 1980. The demolitions had been ordered by Mr. Booker's predecessor, Sharpe James, as part of a street-improvement project.
 Mayor Cory A. Booker said he would talk to people in his administration, but could not make any promises. ''I want to find out why we can't include you in our vision for a new Broad Street,'' he told Mr. Awalla at the time.
 In December, the city demolished the two newsstands. Mr. Awalla, 61, said that he had been in touch with a lawyer in the mayor's office, but that his requests that the city find alternative spots for his newsstands had been ignored. 
 A spokeswoman for the mayor's office said yesterday that the city was still trying to find Mr. Awalla a new spot.Dorothy Brown
 A retired school aide, Ms. Brown, 63, told the mayor at the October office-hours session that the police ransacked her apartment after they arrested her grandson in front of her, at her building, on suspicion of selling crack cocaine. She said an officer flew into a rage, breaking a computer, after she asked him to return $6 that she claims he took from the apartment and put in his pocket. The police said they found the drugs in Ms. Brown's kitchen, prompting an eviction notice. But Ms. Brown insisted that the police had planted the drugs.
 ''I'm very disturbed by this, and I'm going to personally follow up,'' the mayor told Ms. Brown. ''One bad incident with our Police Department can ruin it for everyone. The facts will come out. The truth will come out.''
 Ms. Brown said the mayor called her a few days after their meeting and referred her to the Police Department's internal affairs division. Since then, she said, the police have decided her claims were unfounded. Ms. Brown, who takes care of several grandchildren, said she must vacate her apartment by May 1. The grandson in question, who does not live with her, is awaiting trial.The Hard Part
 This is the fourth article in a series chronicling Mayor Cory A. Booker's first year in Newark's City Hall.Previous articles and a video report on Mr. Booker's latest ''office hours'' session with city residents:
 nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a session for constituents last week, Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark spoke with Shaniquah Townes, 19, right, who was seeking a job. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING OFFENSES (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); GOLF (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); NEWSSTANDS (60%); BACK PAY (60%) Surveys and Series; Public Opinion; Mayors (US)

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs; Cory A (Mayor) Booker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



168 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Candidate's Illness Is Latest Obstacle for Nigerian Election

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, March 7 

 BODY:
At first, the rumor was that the patient was in a coma, taken off for emergency resuscitation. In the next swirl of speculation the patient was already dead, and preparations were being made for a hometown burial. 
 Later, more concrete information was released. The patient, Umaru Yar'Adua, the governing party's candidate in the Nigerian presidential election just weeks away, was in a German hospital undergoing tests because of breathing problems.
 On Wednesday, he assured the BBC's Hausa Service that his health problems were ''nothing serious.'' 
 Whether the same can be said for Nigeria's fragile democracy is unclear. Mr. Yar'Adua's health troubles -- he has a kidney ailment, but the severity and exact nature of his current illness have not been made public -- are the latest of several high-profile stumbling blocks as Nigeria heads toward an election that will either secure its place in the family of modern African democracies or send it spiraling back toward chaos. 
 ''This is really the historical test of whether they can move from one elected incumbent to another without having things break down,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research group in Washington. ''There is a lot riding on this.'' 
 Since its independence from Britain in 1960, Nigeria has seesawed between civilian and military rule, enduring a brutal civil war and decades of misrule that siphoned billions of dollars from the country's oil wealth. No civilian government in Nigeria has handed power to another civilian government, making April's election a watershed. 
 But what was supposed to be a triumphant transition has been marred by a messy battle between the current president, Olusegun Obasanjo, and his deputy, Atiku Abubakar, who wants to succeed Mr. Obasanjo but has been blocked by a series of legal maneuvers seeking to disqualify him. Once allies, the two have had a very public and acrimonious falling out over whether Mr. Obasanjo should seek a third four-year term. 
 Mr. Obasanjo and his allies say Mr. Abubakar is unfit to run because of corruption allegations against him. Government officials accused him of looting a public education fund, and his name has surfaced in connection with a bribery scandal involving Representative William J. Jefferson, Democrat of Louisiana. Like many leading Nigerian politicians, Mr. Abubakar is very wealthy, but the source of his wealth is unclear because he spent most of his career in the military. He has said that his fortune came from investments. 
 He was listed among the politicians deemed too corrupt to stand for office by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, a government agency, but critics of the current administration say the commission's list was intended to attack Mr. Obasanjo's enemies. 
 Mr. Abubakar has used the country's courts to fight efforts to remove him from the ballot, but he may have been checkmated by a recent decision by Nigerian electoral officials to bar anyone on the commission's list from running. The battle is headed to Nigeria's highest court. 
 Further complicating Nigeria's march toward democracy is the unrest in the Niger Delta region, where militants seeking more of the country's oil wealth for the impoverished residents of the oil-rich delta have carried out kidnappings and bombings that have harmed the oil industry. Exports have been cut by as much as 25 percent, and the region has become so dangerous and lawless that some contracting companies are leaving. 
 It was on top of these troubles that the news came of Mr. Yar'Adua's hospitalization. Mr. Yar'Adua, 56, who is little known outside Katsina, his home state in northwest Nigeria, told the BBC's Hausa Service from a hospital in Germany that he planned to return to Nigeria to resume campaigning soon. 
 ''We were getting ready to go on the campaign trail when I began to have difficulty with my breath,'' he said. Doctors in Abuja, Nigeria's capital, ''suggested that I sought medical checkup overseas,'' he added. 
 Given the dominance of the governing party -- the People's Democratic Party -- Mr. Yar'Adua has been widely considered the leading candidate. But even before his abrupt departure, Nigeria's political elite chattered about the possibility that he would be replaced by a better-known candidate, or that the governing party had chosen a weak and ailing candidate so that Mr. Obasanjo, who will continue to hold a powerful position in the party even after his term, could continue to wield power through a loyal proxy.
 Mr. Yar'Adua has countered that notion, asserting in interviews that he is his own man and that his health is excellent. He challenged his critics to a squash tournament, saying they should turn up only if they were ready to play a dozen sets of the strenuous game. 
 Clement Nwankwo, a senior program manager at the National Democratic Institute, a democracy building organization that is helping with election preparations, said the confusion had left many Nigerians cynical and frustrated with the process, fearful that their country's fragile democratic experiment would be destroyed in the chaos. 
 ''It is a messy situation right now, and it is reinforcing the skepticism that this whole process is not working toward achieving democratic progress in Nigeria,'' he said. ''Many people believe that this is just a smoke screen to postpone the election and hold on to power. Everyone is waiting at watching to see what comes next.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about troubles plaguing the coming presidential election in Nigeria incorrectly described the career of Atiku Abubakar, the current vice president, who wants to run for president but so far has been blocked by legal maneuvers to disqualify him. Although he spent much of his career as a customs officer during military rule, he was not in the military.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Umaru Yar'Adua, the governing party presidential candidate, last week in Ebonyi State before he fell ill. His malady led to rumors that he was picked to let President Olusegun Obasanjo keep wielding power by proxy. (Photo by Sunday Aghaeze/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); CORRUPTION (84%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); SCANDALS (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); KIDNEY DISEASE (69%); BRIBERY (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%) Elections; Politics and Government; Election Issues; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: WILLIAM J JEFFERSON (56%) Lydia Polgreen; Umaru Yar'adua; Olusegun (Pres) Obasanjo; Atiku (Vice Pres) Abubakar

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (50%) NIGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (79%) Nigeria; Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



169 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Kazakhstan and China Deadlock Over Depletion of a Major Lake

BYLINE: By ILAN GREENBERG

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan, March 7 

 BODY:
A conference that convened here this week to address the fate of an ecologically threatened Central Asian basin the size of California has ended in stalemate between Kazakhstan and China, the two countries most reliant on its waters. 
 The heart of the basin is Lake Balkhash, the third-largest freshwater lake on earth, tucked in the southeastern corner of Kazakhstan. More than 20 percent of the country's population draws on the lake for its drinking water. Lumbering rivers flowing through neighboring Kyrgyzstan and China replenish the lake and adjacent wetlands.
After decades of water diversion to nearby factories and farms, Lake Balkhash is threatened with ''the same fate as the notorious Aral Sea,'' according to conference documents. 
 The Aral, in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, is widely considered one of the worst human-created ecological disasters in history. Rivers feeding the lake were diverted over decades for water-intensive cotton cultivation across Central Asia. That caused the sea to shrink drastically and eventually split into two anemic parts, devastating a once thriving fishing industry and causing deadly cancer clusters in nearby villages. 
 Progress at this week's conference, convened to introduce an environmentally sound economic development plan, stalled when China spurned Kazakhstan's proposal to send China large stocks of free or heavily subsidized food for 10 years in exchange for a commitment from China to allow an unimpeded flow of river water into Lake Balkhash.
 ''The Chinese were cautious and wary, but they also were listening,'' said Anna Bramwell, chief of operations for the European Union's political office in Kazakhstan, who attended the meeting.
 As part of its ''Go West'' policy, China has offered incentives to people to move to its resource-rich Xinjiang territory, which includes part of the basin area. Chinese authorities have said the now sparsely populated region may eventually have as many as 40 million new inhabitants.
 On top of population pressures, the water system is fast draining into nearby rice and sugar farms that consume twice the water that European and American operations require, according to representatives of the European Commission. 
 According to several participants in the conference, Kazakhstan's president, Nulsultan A Nazarbayev, strongly lobbied the other conference parties to urgently adopt preservation strategies. 
 But Mr. Nazarbayev has angered environmentalists in the past by appearing to endorse the building of a nuclear power plant in the basin, which yields more than 30,000 tons of fish a year and contains vast amounts of coal and building materials like marble.
 Dr. Bramwell said, ''We're trying to move away from the classical environmental approach to a more win-win scenario where everyone has to pay for water and take responsibility for the damage'' they create.

GRAPHIC: Map of Kazakhstan highlighting Lake Balkhash: Lake Balkhash is imperiled after decades of water diversion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); WETLANDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); WATER QUALITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (70%); SUGAR FARMING (70%); COTTON FARMING (70%); LOBBYING (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); POWER PLANTS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); CANCER (52%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%) Water; Water

PERSON: Ilan Greenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%) China; Kazakhstan; Lake Balkhash (Kazakhstan)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



170 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: The Bare Minimum

BYLINE: By Sarah Hamersma. 
Sarah Hamersma is an assistant professor of economics at the Warrington College of Business Administration at the University of Florida.

DATELINE: GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
BOTH the House of Representatives and the Senate have recently passed bills raising the minimum wage. The Senate bill includes tax breaks for businesses, based on the following logic: While a minimum wage increase is popular, the resulting higher labor costs will translate into fewer jobs, more expensive products or both. The solution, the senators concluded, was to subsidize companies that hire disadvantaged workers, in order to reimburse them for these higher wage costs.
 Does this reasoning hold up? A look at one of the key pieces of this business tax package -- the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, which has been in place since 1996 and would be extended for five years under the proposal -- suggests otherwise. 
First, most eligible companies don't take the credit, which averages about $1,000 for each employee who belongs to one of the specified categories of workers (for instance, recent recipients of welfare or food stamps). Even though national surveys show many such workers being hired, employers claim the credit for less than a third of them. 
 Second, there is no evidence that employers have hired more eligible workers as a result of the program. Indeed, according to a number of studies -- including one by the Department of Labor, another surveying 101 temporary help agencies, and a statistical analysis of welfare recipients in Wisconsin -- the credit seldom influences hiring decisions of participating firms. Many companies wish to avoid preferential hiring, even though the policy is explicitly intended to give disadvantaged job seekers an advantage in the labor market.
 Is it a good idea to extend this program, even though it hasn't meaningfully improved the employment picture for disadvantaged workers? But suppose such a program had even a small effect. Would it undo the negative consequences of a minimum wage increase? The answer is no, for two reasons. 
 First, data from Wisconsin show that fewer than 25 percent of workers claimed under the credit are earning the minimum wage. Second, large corporations are the most active participants in the program. In 1999, the average participating corporation received more than $100,000 in credits. The Senate bill, however, is supposed to support small businesses, which have never taken advantage of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit in large numbers, but are the most likely to suffer under the proposed minimum wage increase.
 There's a more direct path to improving incomes for the working poor. Instead of requiring employers to pay more, and then allowing them to apply for reimbursement through tax subsidies, why not skip the middleman and subsidize the worker directly?
 Such a program already exists. The Earned Income Tax Credit is a federal tax refund for workers, who qualify based on family income rather than individual income or wages. This means that an upper-class teenager working at McDonald's will not get a benefit, but someone trying to support a family will. Over the last 15 years, the credit's subsidy rates have increased and the definition of eligibility has broadened. These expansions have greatly improved labor force participation among single mothers.
 If we don't think that people with low incomes are getting what they need, let's not look to ineffective employer tax credits to try to create jobs. And let's not burden employers with the costs of a higher minimum wage, most of which won't even go to low-income families. If additional investments are to be effective -- and directed toward the intended recipients -- they should focus instead on making sure our Earned Income Tax Credit program provides an adequate income supplement for the working poor.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (77%); FAMILY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Hiring and Promotion; Taxation; Small Business; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Labor

PERSON: Sarah Hamersma

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



171 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 842 words

 BODY:
TAKEOVER PLOT AT TAKE-TWO -- A consortium of investors disclosed that it intended to oust the board and possibly the top management of Take-Two Interactive Software, a video game publisher that has been plagued by legal, regulatory and accounting issues. [Page C1.] RETHINKING THE EUROPEAN CAR -- The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, below, wants European automakers to adhere to new limits on carbon dioxide emissions. But first she will have to take on the auto industry at home, where Porsche sports cars tear along the no-speed-limit autobahn. [C1.] A SHORTFALL IN POWER -- A deal that delighted environmentalists -- TXU Corporation's decision to scrap plans for eight new coal-fired plants under a deal it has agreed to with potential new owners -- could leave Texas with a shortfall in energy. 
[C4.]ENVIRONMENTALISTS HIRE BANKER -- One of the nation's largest and most influential environmental groups, Environmental Defense, has hired Perella Weinberg Partners, the boutique investment bank, to advise it as the group takes on an unusual role in the middle of the $38 billion buyout of TXU, the Texas energy giant. [C1.] WALGREEN ACCUSED OF RACIAL BIAS -- The Walgreen Company, the nation's largest drugstore chain, discriminated against thousands of black employees across the country, including managers and pharmacists, according to a class-action lawsuit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. [C1.] FRAUD RULES QUESTIONED -- Some lawmakers are questioning the Justice Department's recently revised guidelines on combating corporate fraud, asking whether they do enough to protect the confidentiality of legal communications and the right to legal counsel. [C3.] A TO-DO LIST, IN BILLIONS -- Exxon Mobil, which earned a record $39.5 billion last year, said that it would spend much of that money by increasing investment in oil and natural gas projects. [C6.] A WIDGET BY ANY OTHER NAME When global marketers try to come up with a meaningful name for a new product, the odds of finding a name not already taken are getting smaller and smaller. Advertising. [C5.] HIGHER BID FOR CAREMARK -- Express Scripts sweetened its $26.1 billion offer for Caremark Rx but cautioned that the bid would be delayed by further regulatory scrutiny. [C3.] BRINGING VIDEO TO THE WEB -- A New York-based Internet start-up that is backed and will be run by former executives of MTV and Nickelodeon will announce plans to begin a series of video-oriented Web sites on niche topics. [C3.] CHANGES AT A RETAILER? The resignation of the supervisory board chairman at Carrefour, the French retailer, has fueled speculation over a shift in strategy. [C6.] SEEKING SUPPORT FOR 'OPEN SKIES' -- European transportation officials urged Britain not to scuttle a landmark deal on trans-Atlantic air travel. British officials are concerned that the draft ''open skies'' agreement could hurt British Airways and Virgin Atlantic. [C6.] E.ON RECONSIDERS TAKEOVER BID -- The German energy giant E.On said that it might abandon a yearlong effort to take over the utility company Endesa of Spain, or settle for just a slice of the company.[C6.] INDIAN EXCHANGES DIVERSIFY -- The Bombay Stock Exchange sold a 5 percent stake to the Singapore Stock Exchange for 1.89 billion India rupees, or $42.6 million, and the exchange in Calcutta said it planned to sell 51 percent of its shares to partners and strategic investors. [C11.] SAKS REVERSES A LOSS -- Saks Inc. reported a fourth-quarter profit, reversing a year-earlier loss, as improved merchandise drove higher sales. The company, operator of Saks Fifth Avenue stores, also said that sales at stores open at least a year had gained nearly 25 percent in February. [C2.] WAIT TILL YOU SEE MY HARD DRIVE -- External hard drives for computers have suddenly become stylish, with brushed aluminum cases, decorator colors and glowing blue or amber lights that grab attention. [C9.] A MEANS TO INFLUENCE POLICY -- The founder of eBay, Pierre Omidyar, has named a new leader for his personal philanthropy as he explores ways to play a bigger role in shaping public policy. [C11.] FILLING A FOUNDER'S SHOES -- When an heir steps in to run a start-up after an entrepreneur dies, it can be difficult undertaking. Small Business. [C7.] MARKETS SHOW STABILITY -- Stocks fell modestly but showed more signs of stability as investors sifted through new economic data and found little reason to resume last week's heavy selling. [C11.]ONLINEON MORTGAGES -- Bob Tedeschi talks about lenders who are redoubling their efforts to keep borrowers afloat. That article and more on home mortgages are available at nytimes.com/realestate.PODCAST ON HEALTH -- Jane Brody, the ''Personal Health'' columnist, discusses the latest health news. Subscriptions to her podcast are available at nytimes.com/health. BATTLE FOR BLUE SKIES -- A decade and a half after Thailand began a battle for better air quality, this erstwhile icon of smog has emerged as a role model for pollution-choked capitals in Asia. A slide show is at nytimes.com/science.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows Saks shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); PHARMACIES (87%); RETAILERS (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); STARTUPS (73%); SPEED LIMITS (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); RACE & RACISM (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); PHARMACISTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (54%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (50%); CLASS ACTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (91%); WALGREEN CO (82%); ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (70%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (91%); WAG (NYSE) (82%); WAG (NASDAQ) (82%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); CVS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (82%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (82%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (70%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



172 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: GENERAL SEEKING HIGH TROOP LEVEL FOR IRAQ INTO '08

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD and MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
The day-to-day commander of American forces in Iraq has recommended that the heightened American troop levels there be maintained through February 2008, military officials said Wednesday. 
 The White House has never said exactly how long it intends the troop buildup to last, but military officials say the increased American force level will begin declining in August unless additional units are sent or more units are held over.
The confidential assessment by the commander, Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, reflects the military's new counterinsurgency doctrine, which puts a premium on sustained efforts to try to win over a wary population. It also stems from the complex logistics of deploying the five additional combat brigades that are being sent to Iraq as part of what the White House calls a ''surge'' of forces. 
 In fact, for now, it is really more of a trickle, since only two of the five brigades are in Iraq. The American military is stretched so thin that the last of the brigades is not expected to begin operations until June. 
 In both the House and the Senate, most Democrats and many Republicans have made clear their opposition even to the current troop increase, and a decision by the White House to extend its duration would probably intensify the political debate over the war. 
 Democratic lawmakers most strenuously opposed to the war are likely to point to the increased stress on the armed forces in trying to persuade party leaders to back a plan that would cut off financing for any troop increase, a course that the Democratic leadership has so far declined to embrace. In its effort to blunt the Congressional opposition to the new strategy, the Bush administration has cited what it calls early signs of progress, including a reduction in sectarian killings in Baghdad. But military officials say it is far too soon to draw any firm conclusions. 
 President Bush has often said that he will listen closely to advice from commanders in the field in making decisions about strategy and manpower in Iraq, but Pentagon officials emphasized Wednesday that no decision to extend the ''surge'' had been made. Military officials said General Odierno had provided his assessment to his superior, Gen. David H. Petraeus, who took over as the top American commander in Iraq this year. General Petraeus has yet to make a formal recommendation to the Pentagon.
 But the question of how long the buildup should last has already become the focus of major concern for the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.
 ''We're looking, as we should, at each of the three possibilities: hold what you have, come down, or plus up if you need to,'' Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters at the Pentagon. General Pace said that ''early data points'' showed that sectarian attacks were slightly down since the Baghdad operation began. But he said that the increase in car bombs suggested that Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia was trying to incite further hostilities with this method.
 When the Bush administration announced its troop buildup in January, it said it was sending 21,500 troops to Baghdad and Anbar Province. Since then, the Pentagon has said that as many as 7,000 additional support troops would also be deployed, including some 2,200 additional military police that General Petraeus had asked for to handle an anticipated increase in detainees. These increases would bring the total number of American troops in Iraq to around 160,000.
 Any extension of the troop buildup would add to the strain on Army and Marine forces that have already endured years of continuous deployments. According to the current schedule, a Minnesota National Guard brigade whose Iraq deployment was extended as part of the troop reinforcement is to leave in August. A senior Pentagon official said that the number of forces would be down to ''presurge'' levels in December unless additional units were sent or kept longer. 
 Decisions need to be made soon, Army officials say, to identify potential replacement units or extensions. To meet troop requirements, the Army would need to look seriously at mobilizing additional National Guard units later this year. 
 Another point of stress is the amount of time active duty units have spent in the United States between deployments. It takes around a year at home to prepare a combat brigade for Iraq. The Army generally has been able to avoid sending units back to Iraq or Afghanistan without at least a year at home. 
 But if Mr. Bush decides to extend the buildup, the first of the Army brigades to return to Iraq with less than a year at home are likely to do so later this year.
 ''As you move to less than a year, you're beginning to erode the ability of the service chiefs to produce a ready force,'' said a senior Pentagon official, who emphasized that the United States needed to be prepared to deal with a range of threats. 
 Despite the strains, some military officials in Iraq say it is unrealistic to expect a troop buildup of several months to create enough of a breathing space for Iraqis to achieve political reconciliation. ''There is Washington time and Baghdad time,'' said a senior Defense official in Iraq. ''Some in Washington want it now, and there is reality on the ground in Baghdad. They don't always match.'' 
 One concern is that Shiite militants and some insurgents will try to outlast the American troops if the buildup is too short. A longer buildup would give the American and Iraqi forces more time to disperse economic assistance, provide better protection to Iraqi neighborhoods and try to win over the Iraqi public.
 ''You have to protect the people long enough to get economic assistance to them and change their attitude and change their behavior,'' said Jack Keane, the retired vice chief of staff of the Army, who has argued that the troop buildup should last 12 to 18 months. ''You cannot do that in weeks. It takes months to do that. The problem with the short-term surge is that the enemy can wait you out.'' 
 The recent National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq also suggested that the Iraqi Security Forces would not be able to assume the major responsibility for securing Baghdad in the near future. An unclassified version of the report noted that ''the Iraqi Security Forces, particularly the Iraqi police, will be hard pressed in the next 12 to 18 months to execute significantly increased security responsibilities, and particularly to operate independently against Shia militias with success.''
 Given the time needed to adjust training schedules and prepare units, decisions may need to be made before there is clear evidence about whether the new strategy is working. ''If he defers some decisions he potentially will foreclose deployment options downstream because people won't begin to move,'' said a Pentagon official, referring to Secretary Gates. ''By deferring a decision he will in effect be making a decision.''
 The additional American troops in the troop reinforcement plan are intended to support a new strategy in which American forces are taking up positions in Baghdad neighborhoods and not limiting themselves to conducting patrols from large bases. Iraqi security forces in Baghdad are also being expanded, including by the addition of Iraqi Army units largely made up of Kurds. 
 The strategy calls for the establishment of 10 districts in Baghdad. At least one American battalion is to be paired with Iraqi units in each district. The hope is that this plan will afford more protection to the Iraqi public and, along with political and economic moves by the government, head off further bloodletting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); POLITICS (71%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (89%); DAVID PETRAEUS (78%); ROBERT M GATES (58%) David S Cloud; Michael R Gordon; Raymond T (Lt Gen) Odierno

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



173 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Urges China to Open Its Markets More Quickly

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and STEVEN R. WEISMAN; David Barboza reported from Shanghai and Steven R. Weisman

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Thursday, March 8 

 BODY:
 from Washington.
Hoping to shift the debate in United States-China trade relations away from currency reform and the growing American trade deficit, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said Thursday that China needed to quicken the pace of its economic reforms and do more to open its financial markets to foreign competition. 
 In a speech here at the Shanghai Futures Exchange, Mr. Paulson outlined a detailed set of capital market reforms that he said would help strengthen China's sometimes volatile capital markets, bolster the country's economy and also help rebalance the global economy.
The speech, which came on the final leg of a three-nation trip through Asia and just over a week after China's stock markets rattled the global financial markets, also called for allowing foreign investors, including big Wall Street firms and Western financial giants, better and quicker access to China's restricted markets. 
 The risks for China are greater in moving too slowly than in moving too quickly toward transparent, liquid, stable capital markets, he said. 
 Though the speech did not contain any new points, it was significant because it reflected the mounting tensions in the United States-China relationship. It was the third time in six months that the Treasury secretary has traveled to China to press the leadership to open up its economy, a highly unusual display of American pressure. 
 The Bush administration effort so far has yielded few results, despite growing fear at the Treasury Department that if China does not take steps soon there will be legislation requiring economic retaliation against China in Congress.
 Shortly after taking office last summer, Mr. Paulson vowed to step up the pressure on China by establishing a ''strategic economic dialogue'' between high-level officials in both countries. In December, Mr. Paulson headed a delegation of administration cabinet members, along with Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, to urge China to open its economy and in particular to allow its currency, the yuan, to appreciate in value. 
 A yuan appreciation would, many economists say, ease the American trade deficit with China by making Chinese exports to the United States more expensive and American exports to China cheaper.
 Though many analysts doubt that China will allow the yuan to appreciate rapidly or that such an appreciation would make a substantial dent in the deficit in the next few years, there has been growing frustration over the trade deficit. The Bush administration and Congress are hoping that China can move more quickly on economic and financial reform that could set the stage for more balanced trade between the two countries.
 Last year, China reported a $177 billion trade surplus with the rest of the world, mostly with the United States and Europe.
 Mr. Paulson stopped in Beijing Wednesday and met with his counterpart in the strategic dialogue, the vice prime minister, Wu Yi, amid indications from the Bush administration that Mr. Paulson was trying to impress on the Chinese leadership the importance of taking concrete steps to ease economic tensions before May.
 The May deadline is seen by administration officials as important because Ms. Wu is to lead a high-level delegation of Chinese officials to Washington as a counterpoint to Mr. Paulson's visit in December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Stocks and Bonds; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Investments

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); WU YI (58%); BEN BERNANKE (57%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Wu Yi (Vice Prime Min); George W (Pres) Bush; David Barboza; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



174 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Shares End Lower on Reduced Volatility

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks fell modestly but showed more signs of stability yesterday as investors sifted through new economic data and found little reason to resume last week's heavy selling.
 Indexes of larger stocks wavered in a narrow range, reacting little to comments from Michael H. Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, that inflation remained stubborn and rate increases might be needed. The market also appeared unimpressed by data showing a weaker jobs picture and sluggishness in some regions.
Stocks turned lower toward the end of the session after drifting higher for much of the afternoon, unable to build on Tuesday's sharp rally. 
 Over all, though, traders seemed reassured. ''The market is stabilizing after the storm of last week,'' said Hugh Johnson, chairman of Johnson Illington Advisors. ''That's real progress.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 15.14 points, or 0.12 percent, to 12,192.45. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave up 3.44 points, or 0.25 percent, closing at 1,391.97. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index dropped 10.50 points, or 0.44 percent, to 2,374.64. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies was 2.98 points lower, or 0.38 percent, closing at 775.90.
 Advancing issues and those declining were virtually equal on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was 1.71 billion shares.
 Oil for April delivery rose $1.13 a barrel, to settle at $61.82 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after weekly domestic inventory data showed a surprising drawdown of supplies. Stock prices of oil companies rose. Chevron advanced 66 cents, to $68.33; Exxon Mobil was up 64 cents, to $71.64; and ConocoPhillips climbed $1.34, to $67.16.
 Wall Street gained little inspiration from the Federal Reserve survey of regional economic activity, the beige book, and largely shrugged off ADP's national employment report, which found that private employment rose by 57,000 jobs in February, the weakest reading since July 2003. Investors are expected to scrutinize the Labor Department's employment report tomorrow.
 ''I think stocks have seen the bulk of the declines,'' said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company. ''I think we will, in the next couple of months or so, be testing highs.''
 CV Therapeutics dropped $2.90 yesterday, or 23.6 percent, to $9.40, after the company said its only approved drug failed to show adequate improvement compared with a placebo in treating heart disease.
 Shares of Friendly Ice Cream jumped by $2, or 16.9 percent, to $13.84, after the chain said it turned a profit last quarter and would consider putting itself up for sale.
 Sales at stores open at least a year at Saks Inc. rose 24.7 percent in February on stronger sales of full-price merchandise. The stock gained $1.08, ending at $19.82.
 In bond trading, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 11/32, to 101 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.49 percent from 4.53 percent.Big Board to Add CapacityBy Bloomberg News
 The New York Stock Exchange, stung by a computer slowdown last week that forced some floor brokers to complete trades by hand, plans to increase its order capacity by more than 60 percent. ''It's a fact of life that message traffic is going to grow and probably grow quickly,'' the chief executive, John A. Thain, said yesterday, ''so we have to add more capacity to deal with it.''

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (72%); SAKS INC (60%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); WEEDEN & CO LP (52%); FRIENDLY ICE CREAM CORP (50%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%); SKS (NYSE) (60%); XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



175 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Education Dept. Is Urged To Explain Loan Subsidy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Lawmakers from both parties are pressuring the Education Department to explain why it let a student loan company keep $278 million in subsidies that an audit found improper.
 The pressure indicates that both parties are focused on the increasing costs of higher education.
The loan company, Nelnet, received the payments through a subsidy program that guaranteed a 9.5 percent interest rate on student loans. In an accord reached in January, the department allowed Nelnet to keep the $278 million it had received but suspended future payments of more than $800 million until a future audit could determine whether the company was eligible for the money. 
 Ten Democrats on the House Education and Labor Committee, as well as a separate bipartisan group of 10 members of Congress, sent letters to the department in the last two days seeking an explanation of that decision.
 Last week, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, asked the department for copies of all communications with the company since last August on the decision not to seek recovery of the money.
 A spokeswoman said Mr. Kennedy planned a full investigation into the case. 
 ''I am interested in the rationale underlying your decision to reject the recommendation by the department's inspector general that the chief operating officer for Federal Student Aid 'require the return of the overpayments' made to Nelnet,'' Mr. Kennedy wrote.
 He asked the department to provide the documents by March 31. 
 In a follow-up letter, Mr. Kennedy asked yesterday whether the department had received a necessary approval from the Justice Department before reaching the agreement. 
 A spokeswoman for the Education Department, Katherine McLane, said the agency was reviewing the letters.
 The letter from the 10 Democrats on the House committee was sent on Wednesday to Education Secretary Margaret Spellings. It also asked for a description of actions that the department might take toward other companies that might be receiving similar payments. 
 ''The Nelnet example represents a serious misuse of federal funds, and it is likely that this is not an isolated case,'' the letter said. ''It is critical for you to conduct full oversight.''
 In their letter sent on Tuesday, the bipartisan group of lawmakers -- seven Republicans and three Democrats, none of whom signed the Wednesday letter -- criticized the decision to settle with Nelnet, of Lincoln, Neb., as fiscally irresponsible and warned that it set a poor precedent. 
 The letter asked the department to revisit this decision and give an explanation if it did not try to recover the money. 
 The guaranteed interest rate was established in the 1980s, when rates were high, to keep lenders in the loan business. Congress tried to rein in the program in 1993, but the loans ballooned as lenders found ways to increase portfolios that they said were eligible for the guarantee.
 A spokesman for Nelnet, Ben Kiser, said, ''We reached an amicable agreement with the department on this issue in January and consider this issue resolved.''
 Representative Thomas E. Petri, a Wisconsin Republican who signed the group letter, said in a telephone interview, ''I don't think any of us think we should sit idly by and let people just game the system.''
 Mr. Petri noted that the overpayments could help finance efforts to make college more affordable, perhaps by increasing grants for poor students. ''That's not liberal or conservative,'' he said. ''That's just a basic responsibility that we have.''
 Advocates for students hope the letters may be the first step in a broader review of the loan industry, and hailed the pressure on the department. 
 ''The fact that you have requests from Democrats, but then also people like Jeff Flake, who is one of the most fiscally conservative members of the Republican Party -- that breadth is significant,'' said Luke Swarthout, higher-education associate with U.S. Public Interest Research Group in Washington.
 Mr. Flake signed the Tuesday latter. 
 Senator Kennedy sent letters to Education Department officials and contractors involved in Reading First, a $1 billion-a-year program in which he demanded to see all correspondence and contracts between Reading First and the White House, the department and other entities. 
 The letters went out hours after the department's inspector general found that the program's main contractor had failed to screen for conflicts of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUDITS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); APPROVALS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%) 

COMPANY: NELNET INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Education Department (US); Nelnet (Co) 

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (79%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%) Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



176 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Bruno Threatens to Undo Some of Spitzer's Proposed Cuts

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Ray Rivera contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 7 

 BODY:
The State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, delivered one of his sharpest and most specific attacks yet on Gov. Eliot Spitzer's budget plan on Wednesday, pinpointing at least $300 million in proposed health care cuts that the Senate would probably try to restore. 
 ''There's enough money in this state to do it all,'' Mr. Bruno said, referring to health care, education, tax relief and other programs that the Republican-controlled Senate wants to increase spending on. 
But Thomas P. DiNapoli, a Democrat who was recently appointed state comptroller by the Legislature despite Mr. Spitzer's opposition, suggested that Mr. Bruno's projections were too optimistic. 
 ''Spending is still increasing at an unsustainable rate, almost two times faster than revenues,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement accompanying an analysis of Mr. Spitzer's spending plan. 
 Mr. DiNapoli said that the governor's plan would lead to a budget gap of $13 billion over three years. And Mr. Spitzer's $120.6 billion budget will grow as the Legislature weighs in with more spending. The Senate and Assembly are likely to introduce their own budget plans by Friday.
 Legislative leaders reiterated on Wednesday that they would restore an appreciable amount of the $1.3 billion the governor is cutting from hospitals and other health care providers. And the Senate, controlled by upstate and suburban Republicans, will seek increases in education aid even above those planned by the governor, asserting that Mr. Spitzer's plan favors New York City.
 But the Legislature may have limited ability to impose its changes, since the governor appears to have enough votes to sustain his vetoes.
 Mr. Bruno outlined two specific items worth $300 million in all that the Senate would probably alter in the governor's budget. In a speech on Wednesday morning to the Healthcare Association of New York State, a hospital group, Mr. Bruno questioned why the governor planned to keep in place a tax on hospitals, worth about $137 million a year, that is scheduled to expire and criticized the governor's plan to eliminate an annual inflation adjustment in Medicaid payments to health care providers. 
 ''Anybody here know anything that's going down?'' he asked, adding, ''I know some things that are going down: some parts of this budget.''
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, was more muted in his remarks to the group. Assembly Democrats want to reverse some of the governor's cuts but are reluctant to worsen an already strained relationship with Mr. Spitzer. 
 ''There are a lot of principles the governor has expounded that we can buy into,'' Mr. Silver said after the speech. ''There are some places that we may want to soften some of the cuts.''
 Mr. Silver also said that he mostly supported the governor's plan to close more than $400 million in corporate tax loopholes, a proposal that has drawn criticism from the Bloomberg administration. The mayor's budget director said on Tuesday that the move would encourage large financial companies to leave the city.
 ''I find that hard to believe,'' Mr. Silver said, adding of the tax moves, ''We can support most of them on a statewide basis.''
 While several hundred health care workers rallied in Albany on Wednesday, the governor promoted his health plan at the Children's Aid Society's Dunlevy Milbank Center in Harlem. He toured the center, including its health clinic, asserting that it could deliver primary and preventive care to children at a lower cost than most hospitals.
 ''We can afford to deliver health care in this setting, because you catch diseases, you prevent diseases from becoming chronic diseases, and you save loads of money,'' he said. 
 With Mr. Spitzer was Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, who praised his plan to make health coverage available to the state's 400,000 uninsured children.
 ''It's the cost-effective thing to do, it's the right thing to do for every child, and it's the smart thing to do,'' she said. 
 But far more politically influential groups are opposing his health care proposals, namely the Greater New York Hospital Association and 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, the powerful union. The groups have launched a media campaign criticizing the governor's plan. And their top officials will probably have time to lobby Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver in Washington on Thursday when they are all to meet with the state's Congressional delegation to oppose spending cuts proposed by the Bush administration. 
 ''Nobody said creating a budget in the state of New York was going to be easy and fun, or all sugar and milk,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''It's going to be hard fought because there's much at stake.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Thomas (Comptroller) Dinapoli; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007



177 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INSIDER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Winners Amid Gloom Of Defaults

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Chaos spells opportunity on Wall Street. 
 When Amaranth Advisors, the $9.5 billion hedge fund, collapsed, Citadel Investments and JPMorgan swooped in for the leftovers. After the Sept. 11 attacks and Hurricane Katrina, reinsurance companies sprouted like weeds to take advantage of soaring premiums.
So it is no surprise that the meltdown of the subprime mortgage market is producing a who's who of winners and losers among hedge funds.
 Some hedge funds have made a killing. Paulson & Company, an $11 billion hedge fund in New York, had such a strong belief that the subprime market would fall apart that it started two funds last summer concentrated solely on expecting such a collapse. Paulson's Credit Opportunities Funds, now with more than $1 billion, were up 67 percent for February and about 82 percent for the year to date. A spokesman for Paulson declined to comment. 
 Losers abound as well. Greenlight Capital, a $4.7 billion hedge fund in New York with a blue-chip reputation, has been hurt by the troubles of New Century Financial, a subprime mortgage originator. At the start of 2006, the fund owned about 5.5 million shares of New Century. A year ago, with the stock trading around $40, Greenlight's founder, David Einhorn, joined the board after a proxy fight. He resigned from the board yesterday and the stock closed at $3.87. 
 Greenlight now owns 3.5 million shares, or 6.3 percent of common shares. A representative declined to comment yesterday. 
 Some hedge funds actually hedged from the start. In July 2005, TPG-Axon, a $7.5 billion hedge fund founded by a former Goldman Sachs trader, Dinakar Singh, invested $100 million in ResMae Financial Corporation, a residential mortgage originator and servicer. In February, ResMae filed for bankruptcy protection. (An affiliate of Citadel Investment Group has since agreed to buy the remains.) 
 TPG-Axon, however, also bet against the subprime sector to offset its exposure from the Resmae position, said a person briefed on the fund. TPG-Axon funds are up about 6 percent through February.
 But the more nuanced tale in the subprime meltdown is that of Scion Capital, a $700 million hedge fund in Cupertino, Calif., founded by a former neurologist, Michael J. Burry. The fund made a smart bet -- but one that was early and nearly brought the fund to the brink. 
 Scion Capital is a long-short value hedge fund, meaning that it looks for undervalued and overvalued stocks and bets for them or shorts them, betting the price will fall. 
 In May 2005, Mr. Burry decided that the housing market was overheated. Credit had been overextended and the appreciation in home prices had the earmarks of a bubble. He placed a bet that the subprime market would collapse. 
 To do so, he used credit derivatives to short -- bet against -- subprime mortgage tranches that are part of mortgage-backed securities. The derivatives were essentially insurance against a default, so he would make money when subprime started to deteriorate. 
 Mr. Burry ultimately entered into eight credit derivative agreements that effectively shorted the riskiest parts of subprime mortgage pools issued in 2005. That investment, which looks smart today, hurt the performance of the overall fund as the subprime market continued to hum.
 Through the first nine months of last year, Scion Value Fund and the Scion Qualified Value Fund were down 16.4 percent, with a big chunk of that loss coming from credit derivative positions, some tied to mortgages and others related to corporate bonds, according to a letter to investors. The fund ended the year down about 17 percent, most of which was attributed to the credit derivative positions. 
 Yet at the end of the third quarter, Mr. Burry still had faith in his trade.
 ''Never before have I been so optimistic about the portfolio for a reason that has nothing to do with stocks'' he wrote in his third-quarter letter to investors, referring to the credit derivative positions. The letter was confident -- bordering on cocky --suggesting that others players jumping into the market would pay for being late to the game. 
 ''But man oh man are they the overconfident big boys diving head first into the shallow end of the pool,'' he wrote. ''Despite our mark to market losses, we're short the mortgage portfolio everyone would want if they knew what they were doing.'' 
 But investors were wary. Rumors abounded that two significant investors wanted to pull their money because of the poor performance -- departures like that, if true, might have sparked a run. Scion, it seemed, might be dead before it had the chance to be right. Dan Nero, chief financial officer and chief operating officer of Scion, declined to comment on investors' perceptions. 
 Then Scion made a radical decision: It put the poorly performing credit derivative positions in a side pocket, essentially separating them from the main fund whose performance they were hurting.
 Investors were required to enter into the side pocket, which locks up investor money until Scion decides to unwind it. Scion would not receive performance fees on the side pocket until it was liquidated. 
 Some investors were furious, said one investor because they were locked into a poorly performing fund that they hoped to exit. In essence, Scion erected a steel gate as investors were trying to get out the door. 
 ''We thought it was in the best interest of shareholder because of the illiquidity of the market,'' Mr. Nero said. 
 Then something funny happened: The subprime market imploded, and Scion's investment looked a whole lot better. 
 The market entered a tailspin. Investment banks that had been financing mortgage originators put back loans that were in early default or violated the bank's credit quality terms. Almost two dozen subprime originators declared bankruptcy. 
 When Mr. Burry first bet against the subprime market, few saw the carnage coming, and as a result the cost to insure subprime mortgage bonds did not reflect significant risk. According to research provider Markit, the cost to insure $10,000 worth of low-rated parts of subprime mortgage-backed securities in early August was only about $217.
 But by the end of February, the cost to insure those subprime mortgage-backed securities shot up to almost $2,000, making Scion's positions suddenly valuable. 
 Scion Capital's bets, including its side pockets, started to pay off: through February, the funds are up 19 to 20 percent, according to a person close to the fund. According to Hedge Fund Research, a Chicago-based firm, hedge funds investing in mortgage-backed securities were up 2.25 percent through February; the HFRI index, a measure of overall hedge fund performance, was up 1.81 percent through February. 
 Investors who were unwittingly locked into Scion were saved, at least for now. (The investment is expected to remain in place until 2008.) Patience paid. Or perhaps Scion was saved by timing and side pockets. 
 Either way, chaos created opportunity and Scion investors might feel lucky that they were locked in the castle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Paulson, whose used his hedge fund to bet against the subprime market. (Photo by Chip East/Reuters)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INSURANCE (77%); TERRORISM (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); REINSURANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOME PRICES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Boards of Directors; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Housing

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (72%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Paulson & Co; Greenlight Capital Inc; New Century Financial; Tpg-Axon Capital Management; Scion Capital

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: David Einhorn; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



178 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 866 words

 BODY:
I.R.S. ASKS THE EXPERTS -- The Internal Revenue Service is asking tax lawyers and accountants who help create tax shelters and advise clients on how to exploit loopholes to take the lead in writing some of its new tax rules. [Page C1.] A NEW PRODUCER'S CHALLENGE -- Rick Kaplan, who was hired by CBS to turn around the ratings slide of its evening newscast with Katie Couric, has an opportunity in his new job to stage a comeback of his own. [C1.] OLD NAME, NEW MONEY -- The man in line to be the fifth Baron Rothschild is close to becoming a billionaire through a web of private equity investments. He has reinvigorated the prestige and wealth of Europe's most storied banking family. 
[C1.] A TROUBLED OIL COMPANY -- Pemex, Mexico's oil monopoly, is struggling with falling production and reserves, and no money to reverse the slide. [C1.] SOME SAW IT COMING -- The meltdown of the subprime mortgage market is producing a who's who of winners and losers among hedge funds. And some hedge funds have made a killing. [C1.] LENDER STOPS TAKING APPLICATIONS -- New Century Financial, the troubled mortgage company, stopped accepting new loan applications as it tried to negotiate the terms of financing arrangements with banks that had cut off its access to billions of dollars in funds. [C3.] VONAGE TOLD TO PAY $58 MILLION -- A federal court ordered Vonage, the Internet phone provider, to pay $58 million for infringing Verizon's patents, dealing a blow to a company already showing signs of stress. [C3.] THREE WINNERS' PROJECTS -- The annual TED conference, named for the confluence of technology, entertainment and design, presents $100,000 to each of three prize winners to help them realize a dream. This year's winners, including the photographer James Nachtwey, above, announced their projects this week. [C4.] FORD WORKERS TO GET BONUSES -- Ford Motor Company, which lost a record $12.7 billion last year, said that all of its employees would receive a ''modest'' bonus. Union leaders had criticized the company over the prospect of bonuses for management. [C3.] BIDDING ESCALATES FOR CAREMARK -- CVS delivered what it hoped would be its knockout punch in the fight to acquire Caremark Rx, raising its offer for the drug benefits manager to $26 billion less than a day after a rival suitor sweetened its own proposal. [C3.] THE S.E.C. VS. SPAM -- The Securities and Exchange Commission, taking a step toward combating stock spam, the unsolicited bulk e-mail that promotes cheap stocks for quick profits, has suspended trading in 35 company stocks that had been promoted in recent spam campaigns. [C4.] RISING MORTGAGE DEBT -- Americans continued to load up on mortgage debt last year, even though the housing market was stalling, according to data from the Federal Reserve. [C2.] WEATHER-BEATEN RETAILERS -- Retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and Federated Department Stores reported weak February sales, saying the month's cold temperatures and stormy weather hampered results. But Wal-Mart's rival, the Target Corporation, posted stronger-than-expected comparable-store sales figures, and some retailers said they expected the Easter holiday to help their March results.[C2.] A RATE INCREASE IN EUROPE -- The European Central Bank raised its benchmark interest rate by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 3.75 percent, and made clear that it was willing to tighten credit further in a humming European economy that could generate inflation. [C7.] PRIVATE PROPERTY IN CHINA -- China's national legislature began deliberating on a landmark law that would provide legal protections for private property as well as a law that would gradually equalize corporate taxes on foreign and domestic corporations. [C3.] ORGANIZING THE INTERNET -- A new company founded by a longtime technologist is setting out to create a vast public database, paving the way for a more automated Internet in which machines will routinely share information. [C7.] SHARE THE GLORY -- The automaker Saturn is inviting owners of its new Aura sedan to borrow for a day or two a replica of the five-pound trophy it won as the North American Car of the Year. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C8.] INVESTORS' CONFIDENCE RISES -- Wall Street extended its recovery from last week's big plunge, closing up after several stable sessions helped buttress investor sentiment and allay some concerns about the economy. [C11.]ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.Dell Inc. did not infringe a patent held by Alcatel-Lucent in its personal organizer products, a federal court ruled in a summary judgment. (REUTERS)Costco Wholesale, the warehouse retailer, said that its fiscal second-quarter profit dropped 16 percent, hurt in part by costs associated with revamping its consumer electronics return policy. (AP)A real estate promoter was charged in a federal indictment with stealing tens of millions of dollars from investors in a Ponzi scheme and using the money to pay for jewelry, luxury automobiles, and credit card and tax bills. (AP)Hovnanian Enterprises, the home builder, reported that it swung to a loss in the first quarter, continuing a trend of bad news in the housing market. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Federated Department Stores shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (88%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (84%); EMAIL MARKETING (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (66%); PATENTS (66%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (64%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (64%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (83%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (55%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); VG (NYSE) (54%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); CVS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (55%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (51%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (51%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



179 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Benefit Claims Fall

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
Workers filing initial claims for jobless benefits fell 10,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 328,000, slightly lower than Wall Street expectations, the Labor Department reported Thursday. 
 But the four-week moving average for claims, a better look at the underlying trend, climbed to 339,000, its highest since an equal level in October 2005.
The number of workers filing for continuing claims fell 98,000, to 2.53 million, in the week that ended Feb. 24, mostly offsetting a jump of 118,000 the previous week. The insured unemployment rate was 1.9 percent, down from 2 percent the previous week.
 Meanwhile, a gauge of online labor demand jumped in February to a record high, with the steepest gains in the utilities sector and in transportation and warehousing, a report showed on Thursday. Monster Worldwide said its employment index rose to 177 in February from 168 in January, a jump of 5.4 percent.
 The Labor Department's jobs report for February is due out Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (89%); TRENDS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Monster Worldwide; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



180 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: With Housing In a Slump, Mortgages Rose Anyway

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
Americans continued to load up on mortgage debt last year, even though the housing market was stalling, according to data released on Thursday by the Federal Reserve.
 Homeowners increased their mortgage borrowing by almost $600 billion in the last quarter of 2006, an annual pace of 6.4 percent, significantly faster than the rise in housing prices, according to the Fed's newest estimate of household and business balance sheets. 
Mortgage debt climbed more slowly in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter, though, reflecting the slowdown in home sales.
 But with prices creeping up slowly, homeowners dug deeper into their equity to keep up their spending. Owners' equity as a share of the total value of their property edged down to 53.1 percent at the end of 2006, from 54.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. 
 Homeowner equity was almost 58 percent of housing value in 2000, and nearly 70 percent in the 1980s.
 Analysts said that homeowners continued to stretch their resources last year, when household savings rates dipped into negative territory, below zero, and that many people might be at the limit of how much they could borrow. 
 Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research, a left-of-center institute in Washington, said the new data raised concerns about both the short-term outlook for economic growth and the long-term retirement security of baby boomers.
 ''Most of the baby-boom generation is near retirement and has few assets outside their homes,'' Mr. Baker wrote in a research note Thursday. ''If weak house prices reduce equity even further for this group, it will be difficult for them to save enough in their remaining working years to offset the loss.''
 Not all the new data pointed to gloomy conclusions. The Fed estimated that household wealth rose 7 percent in 2006 as the value of real estate and financial assets increased faster than the pace of borrowing.
 The data also suggested that savings rates might start to edge back up as the housing market cooled. Some Fed officials argue that the plunge in savings partly reflected the boom in home ownership, which had risen to record levels as people took advantage of low interest rates to switch out of rental housing or cash in on the rising value of their homes.
 Now, with housing prices flat in much of the country and mortgage lenders scaling back on exotic loans that allow people to borrow well beyond traditional guidelines, mortgage borrowing could decline.
 Zoltan Pozsar of Moody's Economy.com said homeowners had already scaled back sharply on home equity loans, taking out $20 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006, compared with $100 billion a year earlier.
 Though there are signs of distress among people who took out subprime loans, which frequently offer low initial rates that go up sharply, there are only limited signs of stress among prime-quality borrowers, who make up more than four-fifths of the overall mortgage market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (68%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



181 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: California Coasting

BYLINE: By CHRIS DIXON

 BODY:
UNDER a full moon, Jalama Beach was stunning. Bathed in the pale lunar glow, the heaving black Pacific washed onto a light, sandy beach. To the north, a curve of coastline was backed by imposing mountains, massive dark hulks in the dim light. Rolling ranchland, dotted with oaks just visible against the night sky, spread out to the east and south.
 This was the California coast, where a night in a hotel in the fabled beach towns between San Francisco and San Diego might run hundreds of dollars, and a week in even a modest beach house would cost $1,500 to $4,000. But I had found oceanside accommodations for $18. 
At Jalama Beach County Park, operated by Santa Barbara County, $18 bought a night in the park campground, the only publicly accessible spot on this wild stretch of coast for 40 miles. In summer, staying there -- or at any of the other public beach campgrounds in California -- would be almost impossible. Hordes of vacationers snap up the campsites the moment reservations for the weeks from Memorial Day and Labor Day become available. Those who do get spots find themselves packed in with other campers. But we -- my wife, Quinn, and I and our 18-month-old daughter, Lucy -- traveled at the end of January. For the most part, we found it was possible simply to drive up to the gate a few hours before sunset and rent a choice site.
 Sure, this was winter camping, but we toured the southernmost campgrounds and experienced sunny days with highs in the 60s, 70s, even 80s, great for wetsuit surfing, beachcombing and side trips into beach towns like Malibu and Laguna Beach. At night, when temperatures dropped into the 40s, we could bundle up to walk on the moonlit sand or stay snug in one of the most economical forms of camping accommodation available -- a reconditioned 1973 Volkswagen camper van. 
 We had rented our van from Bill Staggs, an Orange County surfer whose company, Vintage Surfari Wagons, owns a small fleet of these retro relics, fully outfitted, roadworthy and refurbished. The price was $89 a day, and driving this funky motor home seemed an ideal way to meander along the Pacific Coast Highway.
 We started between San Diego and Los Angeles and worked north, finding a succession of well-equipped campgrounds, all with hot showers, inviting fire pits and separate sections for huge R.V.'s and small campers or tents. Everywhere, the beaches were beautiful and serene. San Onofre
 Nestled between the sprawling Camp Pendleton Marine base and the charming surf-centered town of San Clemente, the San Onofre State Beach park runs roughly four miles from Cotton's Point, the site of the Western White House of President Richard M. Nixon, southward through a series of famed surfing breaks known as the Trestles before reaching the mile-long, palm-lined, thatched-hut paradise at the San Onofre Surfing Beach. Its wild strand is interrupted only by the ominous domes of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station before continuing south through a long stretch of untamed but easily accessible beaches known as the Trails. 
 We reached the surfing beach in midafternoon on a Sunday. The crowd was sparse and the sky sunny. I threw on my wetsuit and paddled out in 60-degree water. I dropped into my first wave, and a dolphin rocketed through the water alongside me. A couple of hours later, Quinn and I were toasting the setting sun with chardonnay. 
 The San Mateo campground, one of two at this park, is tucked into an unspoiled, oak-lined river valley. Though little more than a mile from the beach, and separated from it by Interstate 5, it seems a world away. On a peaceful Sunday night, the distant hum of traffic was drowned out by guitar strumming from a neighboring campsite and regular howls from a distant pack of coyotes. 
 I crept out of the van before sunrise the next morning, eager to surf in front of the former Nixon estate. I shared the mile-and-a-half-long chaparral-lined trail to the beach (it crosses under the freeway along the banks of San Mateo Creek) with scores of rabbits, an owl and a coyote. After an hour of flawless waves, I hiked back, spotting a bobcat and a covey of startled quail. 
 San Onofre is California's fifth-most-popular state park, but a proposed six-lane toll road would cross near the campground. If it is approved, opponents say, the landscape will be irrevocably altered. We were glad to have seen it before that happens. Leo Carrillo
 About 100 miles up the Pacific Coast Highway from San Onofre, Leo Carrillo State Park sits at the base of the Santa Monica Mountains along the oak and sycamore-shaded Arroyo Sequit, which is usually a dry creek bed but can become a torrent after winter storms. The arroyo meets the Pacific at a mile-long, mountain-shadowed crescent of beach with an often crowded surfing break and vast, anemone-filled tide pools, whose denizens positively fascinated Lucy. 
 We were completely alone on the beach and nearly so in the campground, which is hidden among trees at the base of a long, verdant canyon. 
 We parked and set up near the streambed. After a dinner cooked over the camper's propane stove, we settled in for sleep -- the camper has a double bed that folds out of the back seat and a bunk in the pop top. Owls and coyotes serenaded us to sleep. 
 The next morning, we roamed the densely forested banks of the arroyo. The trees were filled with bluebirds and a shrieking flock of wild green parrots, which were regarded with some disdain by a large red-tailed hawk.
 (The park, by the way, was named for a California conservationist and actor, who is perhaps best known for his role as Pancho in the 1950s TV series ''The Cisco Kid.'') Carpinteria
 The shore at Carpinteria State Beach has been called the place where asphalt meets the sea -- not because of some modern roadway, but in honor of an eons-old tar pit that nature has placed right in front of one of the town's better surf spots. Chumash Indians once used the tar to seal their canoes. Close to the water, Lucy dug in soft sand, picked daisies, chased scores of gulls and gawked at a great blue heron stalking the dunes.
 In Carpinteria itself, a quirky but sophisticated little beach town about 13 miles south of Santa Barbara, we strolled along Linden Avenue, admiring the quaint shops, Craftsman homes and century-old palm trees all set against the 4,000-foot Santa Ynez Mountains. At the Rincon Designs surf shop, Lucy tried on about 10 pairs of toddler-size flip-flops. 
 At the campground, we found another couple, Libba and Laurie Padgett, staying in a VW camper -- a 1989 Westfalia with an odometer reading of 385,000 kilometers (239,228 miles). The Padgetts had used it for a decade to make trips from their home in Powell River, British Columbia, to the desert Southwest. In 1975, in an earlier VW microbus, they drove with their four children across Mexico. ''They were all blond, and we got a lot of attention,'' Mr. Padgett said. ''There was love everywhere we went.''
 Of the campgrounds they'd visited, Mr. Padgett judged Carpinteria to be perhaps his favorite. ''It's beautiful here, and everything is so convenient to town,'' he said. ''And this town hasn't changed much through the years, but the rest of California is so different.''Jalama Beach
 The lonely, winding 14-mile road off the Pacific Coast Highway leading to Jalama Beach County Park was spooky but majestic for after-dark arrival. To the north of this park is the mountainous Vandenburg Air Force Base; to the south are the gates of the 25,000-acre Bixby Ranch -- a place of sweeping foothills, happy cows and long surf breaks -- which was recently sold to an investment group for a reported $140 million. 
 The roar of the ocean boomed through the van's open top early the next morning. In the soft sand outside were the pawprints of at least three raccoons that had been sniffing around for a leftover. Daylight offered a clearer picture of the rocky, windswept shore. This tiny 22-acre park has to be one of the prettiest campgrounds in all the West.
 Out on the chilly beach, a bundled-up group of campers oohed and aahed at the huge westerly swell. Nearby, some high-school-age surfers from Los Angeles huddled around a huge pan of sizzling bacon and prepared to do some surfing. Charlie Piechowski, 17, said he had followed the news of the ranch sale and hoped that it would mean more public access to well-known, difficult-to-reach breaks like Cojo and Government Points.
 Nancy Aardweg, the manager of the park's tiny general store, which also has a fine restaurant, said that some local people were concerned that the sale of the ranch might usher in a big development, changing the nature of this wild place.
 The restaurant's walls double as a museum, with shelves holding the history of Jalama in fossils, photographs and words. There, the September 1923 Honda Point Disaster, the Navy's worst navigational accident, is immortalized in pages from The Lompoc Record: ''The ships were going at such terrific speed when they hit that they bounded on top of the low reefs and tore great holes in their bottoms.'' (Twenty-three sailors died and seven nearly new destroyers were lost in the dense fog near the Santa Barbara Channel.) 
 The air was chilly, and I took a walk alone along the beach toward the Tarantulas, an ominously named reef-bottomed surf break two miles south. Along the way, shells, driftwood, river stones and washed-up kelp lay below questionably stable sandstone cliffs. Throngs of tittering little shorebirds dug for food in the sand. 
 Offshore, dolphins rode and dived, and I imagined a shipwrecked sailor struggling ashore. I like to surf, but I wanted no part of these enormous, frigid waves. The grandeur of the scenery was enough. ENDLESS WINTERFor Shorebirds and Snowbirds
 RESERVATIONS for California state campgrounds, including those at San Onofre, Leo Carrillo and Carpinteria, can be made through Reserve America (www.reserveamerica.com) or by calling (800) 444-7275 or (916) 638-5883. Rentals are $20 to $25, with an additional $7.50 reservation fee. Midweek in winter and early spring, it is often easy to find a desirable campsite without reserving in advance. 
 San Onofre beach is 58 miles north of downtown San Diego, off Interstate 5 near San Clemente.
 Leo Carrillo is in an unusually remote part of Malibu, off Route 1 at 35000 Pacific Coast Highway, around 30 miles north of Santa Monica.
 Carpinteria is about 13 miles south of Santa Barbara; take the Casitas Pass Road exit from Route 101 to Palm Avenue, which ends at the beach. 
 Information on California state parks is available at www.parks.ca.gov.
 Jalama Beach County Park (www.sbparks.org) in Santa Barbara County, has 98 campsites, all with ocean views. Sites range from $16 to $25. Groups can reserve by calling (805) 934-6211, but individuals must rent sites first come first served. To reach the park, from Santa Barbara, turn onto the Pacific Coast Highway just outside Gaviota, drive north about 15 miles to Jalama Road and turn left. Another winding 14 miles will drop you off at the beach.
 To rent a VW camper, contact Vintage Surfari Wagons in Mission Viejo (949-716-3135, www.vwsurfari .com).

GRAPHIC: Photo: ECONOMY COACH -- Finding cheap beach accommodations with a van is easy, in winter. (Photo by Chris Dixon for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 COLD WAVE -- Swells at Jalama can discourage all but the most intrepid surfers. (Photo by Chris Dixon for The New York Times)(pg. F8)Map of California highlighting State Parks and beach areas along the southern coast. (pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (91%); CAMPING (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SURFING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); US LABOR DAY (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) Camps and Camping; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%) Chris Dixon

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



182 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS Londonderry, Vt.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: A Town That's Still Down to Earth in a Highflying Ski Region

BYLINE: By WENDY KNIGHT

 BODY:
A DIVOT in the Green Mountains at the crossroads of Routes 11 and 100 in south-central Vermont, Londonderry could be mistaken for just another white-steepled eye blink on the way to better-known destinations like the Stratton Mountain Resort or Manchester. 
 Yet driving the country roads that fan out beyond the town's two villages, Londonderry and South Londonderry, the allure that the quiet place has for weekenders is easy to understand. Tall white pines frame the winding streets, and a car unexpectedly parked by the side of the road prompts a friendly offer of assistance.
The West River weaves through town, recalling bygone days when it was crucial to the lumber industry. Today, forested hillsides are cut with powdered ski runs that signal the region's new economy. 
 ''We love the location,'' said Peter Sternbach, 70, a retired international business consultant from Westport, Conn. ''It's very rural, with lots to do.'' 
 He and his wife, Anna Marie, 69, bought a three-bedroom chalet in 1973 for $36,000. They have since made significant improvements to the house, including the addition of a screened porch, an upstairs bathroom and a modern kitchen. 
 The couple cross-country ski and snowshoe on trails along the river or in Landgrove, a hamlet near Londonderry. In summer, they hike, swim in Hapgood Pond and often attend performances at the Weston Playhouse six miles north on Route 100 -- ''The King and I'' and ''Hairspray'' are promised for the summer -- or at the Southern Vermont Arts Center about 15 miles southwest in Manchester. 
 Compared with properties on Stratton Mountain, where the average price of a single-family home is just over $1 million and three-bedroom town houses are $800,000 to $1.2 million, properties in Londonderry are a steal. The average selling price of a house last year was $379,000. 
 ''Initially, we thought we couldn't afford the area,'' said Pamela Erickson, 51, a real estate broker from Bordentown, N.J., who spent summers in Vermont as a child at her parents' log cabin near Bennington, about 40 miles southwest. 
 In looking to buy their own property in Vermont, she and her husband, John McDonald, 50, a telecommunications engineer, were ''open to a wide range of styles and prices,'' she said. They looked at seven places before they bought their four-bedroom, cedar-sided house for $254,500 two months ago. 
 ''I loved that it was on a cul-de-sac'' off Route 100, Ms. Erickson said, where ''we're close to the ski hills, yet it feels private.'' The Scene
 By late Friday afternoon, the parking lot of the Mountain Marketplace, a strip of stores at the junction of Routes 11 and 100, teems with station wagons and pickups bearing ski racks or snowmobile trailers, as weekenders get food and other provisions at Clark's Quality Foods, the town's supermarket. From May through October, the parking lot of Mill Tavern on Route 11 is host to a farmers' market. 
 Still dressed in their Nordic ski sweaters, families with young children dine at the dimly lighted, antique-filled Mill Tavern, whose owner, Ed Brown, greets guests by name. 
 Other weekenders head across town to the Three Clock Inn, a restaurant with white table linens and votive candles that has attracted the attention of food magazines over the years with dishes like its Maine lobster pot pie and roast rack of Colorado lamb. 
 One recent Saturday morning at the Village Pantry, a gourmet coffee-food-wine shop in South Londonderry, two contractors in paint-speckled sweatshirts stood in line for egg sandwiches beside a female snowboarder in white, rhinestone-studded snow pants and another woman clutching a Chloe handbag. But by 8 a.m., many weekenders are already on the mountain. 
 ''Best runs are the first runs,'' said Chris Lautenslager, 49, who works for a commodities exchange in Manhattan. Last fall, he and Bernadette Grey, 43, an editor of children's books, bought a six-bedroom, three-bathroom chalet-style house on six acres for $330,000. 
 Between them, they have five children who range in age from 8 to 14, all of whom are skiers or boarders. In summer, they also bike, canoe and swim in the quarry near Manchester.
 On Saturday night ''we hang,'' Mr. Lautenslager said, echoing the sentiment of many families who snuggle into their homes after a day on the slopes. Pros
 Being near the ski hills is a huge draw for most seasonal homeowners, said Andy Reed, an agent with Stratton Buyer Brokerage in Londonderry. With three resorts within a few miles of town -- Stratton, Bromley and Magic Mountains -- and Okemo about 20 miles north, Londonderry is the center of the mountains, he said. 
 ''You don't have to drive 20 minutes to a grocery store,'' said Mr. Lautenslager, who enjoys the basics the town offers: a grocery store, a hardware store, a pharmacy, a health food store and a bank. 
 ''People are very friendly,'' said Mr. Sternbach, who has befriended a number of second- and third-generation Vermont families in the region. Cons
 Cellphone reception is unreliable, and high-speed Internet access is not available in some areas -- but some people might see that as a plus. For those who live in Connecticut, Londonderry is a manageable three-to-four-hour drive, but for homeowners who live south or west of Manhattan, the weekend trip can be difficult. 
 ''We'd love it if it were closer to New Jersey,'' said Ms. Erickson, who generally makes it to Londonderry in five and a half hours. 
 Taxes have jumped for some property owners, Mr. Sternbach said. In the 34 years that he and his wife have lived in Londonderry, he has seen bed-and-breakfasts and stores close, he said, because their owners ''couldn't afford the taxes.'' The Real Estate Market
 Properties with views of Stratton or Bromley are very sought after, Mr. Reed said, with many seasonal homeowners looking for land on which to build hiking or horse trails. Prospective buyers ask about an apartment, garage or other rental property, though most never rent it, he said. ''People are buying houses they feel they can comfortably manage,'' he added. 
 Rather than build new homes, weekenders are renovating existing homes, with saltboxes and capes predominant. Most available properties in Londonderry list for $400,000 to $600,000, though a 1970s ski chalet can be found for less than $300,000. A 10-acre lot might be priced anywhere from $200,000 to $700,000. Homes are staying on the market for more than six months, Mr. Reed said. ''People aren't that anxious to buy.'' 
 Many of the younger baby boomers are acquiring property with an eye toward retirement. ''Our goal is to eventually transition here,'' said Mr. Lautenslager. He and his family try to spend three weekends each month in Londonderry. 
 ''Remember when we were kids and we'd go out in the yard to play?'' he said. ''And it wasn't scheduled, and it wasn't a play date? That's what it's like here.''LAY OF THE LANDPOPULATION -- 1,709, according to the town clerk.SIZE -- 32.6 square miles.WHO'S BUYING -- Skiers and outdoor enthusiasts in their 40s and 50s who have school-aged children. Most are from New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts.GETTING THERE -- From southern Connecticut, take Route 91 north from Hartford to Brattleboro, Vt. Follow Route 9 west to Route 100 north to Londonderry. Or take the New York State Thruway north to the Troy exit and follow the signs for Route 9 east to Bennington. From Bennington, take Route 7 north to Manchester, then Route 11 east to Londonderry. WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Frog's Leap Inn (7455 Route 100, Londonderry; 802-824-3019; www.frogsleapinn.com) has four decent standard rooms and four suites with mini-refrigerators and fireplaces in the annex building and a two-bedroom cottage. Rates begin at $89 a night with a full breakfast. Dinner is served in the dining room in the main house. 
 On 35 acres, the Landgrove Inn (132 Landgrove Road, Landgrove; 802-824-6673; www.landgroveinn.com,) has 18 rooms, starting at $155 on weekends, with breakfast. On Sunday nights, there is a three-course dinner for $25 a person. There are snowshoe and cross-country trails.COMPARABLESWhile There's a Lot to Do, Being Low-Key Remains the Key Information on properties was supplied by the listing companies.WHAT -- 6-bedroom houseHOW MUCH -- $190,000This 1,900-square-foot house, a former firehouse built in 1900 that still has the original hose tower, has three bathrooms, including one with a claw-foot tub. The living room has a brick fireplace and a stained-glass window. Agent: Kathy Snyder, Country Living Properties, (802) 824-4400; www.countrylivingproperties.com.WHAT -- 4-bedroom houseHOW MUCH -- $460,000Surrounded by old-growth sugar maples, this 3,000-square-foot cape-style house has views of the village and Magic Mountain. It has yellow-pine floors, a new roof, updated wiring and plumbing, a new well, three and a half bathrooms and an attached two-car garage. The master bedroom suite has a fireplace. Agent: Andy Reed, Stratton Buyer Brokerage; (802) 824-4421; www.strattonbroker.com.WHAT -- 4-bedroom houseHOW MUCH -- $689,000This 2,500-square-foot clapboard farmhouse was built in the 1830s. It has updated mechanicals, four bathrooms and a family room with a stone fireplace and wide-plank floors. The property, which has stone walls and perennial gardens, is just under five acres near Landgrove, two miles west of Londonderry. Agent: Ted Cetron; Winhall Real Estate; (802) 297-1550; www.winhallrealestate.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CONVENIENCE -- The small town center is a big part of the appeal of Londonderry. (Photo by Caleb Kenna for The New York Times)Map of Vermont highlighting Londonderry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); HOME PRICES (87%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (74%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (74%); RESORTS (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%) Geographic Profiles; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Wendy Knight

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (93%) VERMONT, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Londonderry (Vt); Vermont

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



183 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: It Came From the River, Hungry for Humans (Burp)

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
The plug-ugly monster that jumps out of a city river in ''The Host'' to scoop up and chomp down on those unlucky enough to cross its path -- men, women, a whip-smart 13-year-old girl named Hyun-seo -- looks like something you might find lurking at the bottom of a Hieronymus Bosch painting or trolling the depths of a murky restaurant aquarium in the middle of a toxic dump. Blink and it looks like something that slimed out of the sea in a creationist nightmare.
 It would have to be an awfully big aquarium, as it happens, because this fishy creature, this mystery from the deep with the gulping petaled mouth and prehensile tail is the size of a school bus and restless to boot. It rushes underwater and races over ground, its sturdy little legs churning turf. Every so often it spirals into a back flip as gracefully as a prepubescent Romanian gymnast or drops into the water like a knife, scoring a perfect-10 dive. It's as ugly as sin, this thing, but it has style to burn. As does this film, a loopy, feverishly imaginative genre hybrid from the South Korean filmmaker Bong Joon-ho, about the demons that haunt us from without and within. 
By turns a carnival of horrors and a family melodrama (variations on the same theme), ''The Host'' is also a rethink of those 1950s cine-quickies in which mondo ants, locusts, wasps, crabs and snails and one seriously ticked off amphibious reptile go on the rampage, visiting punishment on a hapless, guilty humanity. Like Godzilla (Gojira in the original Japanese), some of these mutants were born under a mushroom cloud; others were hatched in the B-movie hothouse of box-office opportunism. The creature running amok in ''The Host,'' meanwhile, was spawned by a 37-year-old South Korean who has spent his entire life in the shadow of the American military presence. No wonder the bad guys look like character actors on leave from Hollywood. They are. 
 As if in preparation for the carnage to come, the once-upon-a-time story opens in a modern autopsy room with two men, an American and a Korean, dressed in scrubs. Bathed in an eerie, silvery blue light, the American boss (Scott Wilson) orders the Korean (Kim Hak-sun) to dump bottle upon bottle of formaldehyde down the drain, on the pretext that the containers have become too dusty. 
 Stunned, the Korean objects, noting that the chemical will flow from the drain into the Han River, the fat ribbon of water that cuts through Seoul and empties into the Yellow Sea. The American grimaces, capping his request with a barely veiled threat (''That's an order'') that betrays him as an emissary of American military might.
 Fast-forward to a day like any other and the Park family running its snack stand on the banks of the Han. Calculatingly, goofily dysfunctional, with enough issues to populate a couple of 12-step groups, the Parks don't seem all that different from the brood in ''Little Miss Sunshine.'' There's gramps, Hee-bong (Byun Hee-bong), his three adult children -- including an unemployed salaryman, Nam-il (Park Hae-il), and his archery-champ sister, the lovely Nam-joo (Bae Doo-na) -- and only grandchild, the aforementioned Hyun-seo (Ko A-sung). Mostly, though, there is the family's oldest son, Gang-du (the wonderful Song Kang-ho), an overgrown baby with a shock of badly bleached blond hair and a moon face that waxes and wanes depending on his proximity to his beloved daughter, Hyun-seo.
 Bong Joon-ho's previous features include a smart-aleck exercise in gratuitous nonsense called ''Barking Dogs Never Bite'' (they just comically kick the bucket) and the shiver-inducing thriller ''Memories of Murder.'' As he did in ''Memories,'' about the hunt for a serial killer, Mr. Bong relies on a familiar bag of movie tricks in ''The Host.'' But, much like Steven Spielberg (an unmistakable influence), he makes all those old tricks feel new. That's especially true during the monster's first attack, when Mr. Bong instills an initial sense of calm and then of rapidly escalating panic through his masterful orchestration of the various tempos created by the actors (walking, then running), the monster (swimming, then galloping), the camera (tracking, then racing) and the edits (slow, slow, fast!).
 The opening attack is sensationally well directed, and if the rest of the film never quickens the pulse in the same accelerated fashion, it does give the story both its principal excuse (the monster grabs the granddaughter) and something just as satisfying if unexpected: a portrait of parents, children and the ties that bind, sometimes to the point of near-strangulation. ''The Host'' may be born out of sociopolitical tensions, scares about SARS and the avian flu, or Mr. Bong's imagination, but it's also a snapshot of a modern South Korea bordering on social anarchy, one in which a fatalistically obedient old-timer and his three preternaturally immature adult children face down a rampaging beast along with clueless doctors, Keystone Kops, faithless friends and even hordes of paparazzi.
 Besieged by humans and monster alike, the family has nowhere to go but deep inside itself. This us-against-them strategy works deviously well because it ensures that the Parks are the star attraction, not the monster. Not that the creature doesn't have its share of show-stopping moments, as when it's caught by surprise in midgulp, a pair of legs dangling from its mouth. Or when it regurgitates a corpse into its lair with a slimy splat, an act it seals with a tender lick of its long tongue. It's in this lair that Hyun-seo, her face and schoolgirl's uniform flecked with muck, proves her mettle, retrieving the cellphone that becomes the lifeline to her family and playing protector to another child who adds a touching dimension to the mix. 
 Although some of Mr. Bong's action scenes here are the match of those in ''Jaws,'' he seems made of sterner stuff than Mr. Spielberg. He can seem just as cruel, readily putting children in mortal danger, but he doesn't share the American master's compulsive need for tidy endings. 
 ''The Host'' is a loose, almost borderline messy film, one that sometimes feels like a mash-up of contrasting, at times warring movies, methods and moods. Mr. Bong would as soon have us shriek with laughter as with fright. But it's precisely that looseness, that willingness to depart from the narrative straight and narrow, that makes the film feel closer to a new chapter than a retread.
 Likewise it is Mr. Bong's willingness not just to contemplate but also to deliver a worst-case scenario that separates ''The Host'' from run-of-the-mill horror and may have helped make it a runaway hit in Korea. Closer to home the film reminds me less of the usual splatter entertainments that clutter American movie theaters and more of another recent horror film, the one in which a newly thawed alien with a giant brain delivers apocalyptic warnings to humanity about its imminent future. I'm talking of course about the documentary ''An Inconvenient Truth.''
 Much like that Al Gore big-screen lecture, ''The Host'' is a cautionary environmental tale about the domination of nature and the costs of human folly, and it may send chills up your spine. But only one will tickle your fancy and make you cry encore, not just uncle.''The Host'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It contains monster violence galore.The HostOpens today nationwide.Directed by Bong Joon-ho; written (in Korean, with English subtitles) by Mr. Bong, Hah Joon-won and Baek Chul-hyun, based on a story by Mr. Bong; director of photography, Kim Hyung-goo; edited by Kim Sun-min; music by Byeongwoo Lee; production designer, Ryu Seong-hee; produced by Choi Yong-bae; released by Magnolia Pictures. Running time: 119 minutes.WITH: Song Kang-ho (Park Gang-du), Byun Hee-bong (Park Hee-bong), Park Hae-il (Park Nam-il), Bae Doo-na (Park Nam-joo), Ko A-sung (Park Hyun-seo), Scott Wilson (American Military official) and Kim Hak-sun (Mr. Kim).
 (Photo by Magnolia Pictures)(pg. E1) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Song Kang-ho, left, and Byun Hee-bong in ''The Host.'' (Photo by Magnolia Pictures)(pg. E10)
 The Host -- Bae Doo-na in this film by Bong Joon-ho, opening today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (87%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); ATHLETES (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); ALDEHYDES (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Manohla Dargis; Bong Joon-Ho; Bae Doo-na; Song Kang-Ho; Byun Hee-bong

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%) PACIFIC OCEAN (77%) UNITED STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



184 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS: March 9-March 15; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 15807 words

 BODY:
TheaterApproximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
 Previews and Openings'BLACKBIRD' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on April 10. Jeff Daniels stars in the United States premiere of this provocative play about a man coming to terms with a troubling relationship from his past. Joe Mantello directs. Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.'CURTAINS' In previews; opens on March 22. Kander and Ebb's satire of a murder mystery, which opened on the West Coast, is set in a theater during a 1959 out-of-town tryout. David Hyde Pierce and Debra Monk star (2:45). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.'ESSENTIAL SELF-DEFENSE' Previews start on Thursday. 
Opens on March 28. Romance blooms in the new Adam Rapp (''Red Light Winter'') play about a man who signs up to be an attack dummy (2:15). Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'JACK GOES BOATING' In previews; opens on March 18. The Oscar winner Philip Seymour Hoffman stars in this new Labyrinth Theater Company play about marital problems and dating panic (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555.'KING HEDLEY II' In previews; opens on Sunday. Signature Theater revives August Wilson's operatic drama, set in Reagan-era Pittsburgh, about a man who has just returned from prison (2:45). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.'OUR LEADING LADY' In previews; opens on March 20. A new comedy by Charles Busch (''The Tale of the Allergist's Wife''), about the actress who was to perform at Ford's Theater on the night Lincoln was shot (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.'THE PIRATE QUEEN' In previews; opens on April 5. A new musical from the ''Les Miserables'' team, about a 16th-century swashbuckler, brings to life a slice of Irish history (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100.'PROMETHEUS BOUND' Performances begin on Tuesday. Opens on March 21. The English actor David Oyelowo stars in this new production of a tragedy about a man chained to a rock (1:20). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.'SOME MEN' In previews; opens on March 26. Terrence McNally's episodic drama about gay life darts through history after kicking off with a marriage ceremony (2:00). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.'TALK RADIO' In previews; opens on Sunday. Eric Bogosian's darkly funny portrait of a late-night talk show host returns for a Broadway revival, starring Liev Schreiber. Robert Falls directs (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200.'TEA AND SYMPATHY' In previews; opens on Thursday. The Keen Company unearths this 1950s drama about a boy who is presumed to be gay (2:00). Clurman Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'WIDOWERS' HOUSES' In previews; opens on Wednesday. This adaptation of George Bernard Shaw's play is about a slum landlord in 1990s Harlem (1:40). Kirk Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' In previews; opens on March 29. Vanessa Redgrave stars in this adaptation of Joan Didion's heartbreaking memoir. David Hare directs (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.Broadway'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) * 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' Lincoln Center Theater's brave, gorgeous, sprawling and ultimately exhilarating production of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about intellectuals errant in 19th-century Russia. A testament to the seductive powers of narrative theater, directed with hot and cool canniness by Jack O'Brien and featuring a starry cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton, Josh Hamilton and Ethan Hawke, among others) in a tasty assortment of roles. Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HOWARD KATZ' The subject of Patrick Marber's comedy of unhappiness about a rabid talent agent, starring a baleful Alfred Molina and directed by Doug Hughes, is nothing more nor less than your standard-issue midlife crisis. This familiar topic gets the better of all the talented people here trying to make it seem fresh (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) * 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)* 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) * 'TRANSLATIONS' The estimable Irish director Garry Hynes (a Tony winner for Martin McDonagh's ''Beauty Queen of Leenane'') has assembled an ensemble of an extraordinarily high caliber and consistency for the third major New York production of Brian Friel's 1980 play. Set in rural Ireland in 1833, as the local tongue is being supplanted by the language of the English occupying forces, the play explores the seriocomic truth that language can divide as easily as it unites, and can never hope to translate the rich music in our souls with the delicacy we yearn for. A top-flight Broadway revival (2:15). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway'BFF' It is certainly possible to make fine art out of childhood experiences, but this play about two ''best friends forever'' smacks of an after-school special. It jumps back and forth between the friendship of two 11-year-old girls as they grow and grow apart, and the life of one of those girls 10 or so years later. The actors (including Sasha Eden and Laura Heisler) do a good job of conveying childhood. But it boils down to a story of 20-somethings needlessly complicating their lives -- something that may be credible, but is not necessarily interesting. (1:30). DR2, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Anne Midgette) 'BLINDNESS' Joe Tantalo's adaptation of Jose Saramago's best-selling novel, about an unnamed city struck with an inexplicable epidemic of ''white blindness,'' is set in a cell-like space surrounded by white scrim. This setting and the mostly strong acting drive home the fearful basic circumstances. Unfortunately, the script also streamlines Saramago's reflective story to the point of draining it of moral complexity (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Jonathan Kalb) * 'DYING CITY' Christopher Shinn's crafty and unsettling play about grief and violence, set in the shadow of the Iraq war. Directed by James Macdonald, and fiercely acted by Pablo Schreiber and Rebecca Brooksher, this quiet, transfixing production turns passive aggression into a theatrical dynamic. (1:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-7600. (Brantley)* 'IN THE HEIGHTS' Lin-Manuel Miranda's joyous songs paint a vibrant portrait of daily life in Washington Heights in this flawed but enjoyable show. Essentially a valentine to the barrio -- conflict of a violent or desperate kind is banished from the picture -- the musical contains a host of vibrant, funny performances and brings the zesty sound of Latin pop to the stage. (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)'THE MADRAS HOUSE' A century-old drama about ''the woman question,'' this rare revival of Harley Granville Barker's fascinating play is more contemporary than you might think (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Jason Zinoman)'MARY ROSE' J. M. Barrie penned this distaff variation on themes from ''Peter Pan'' in 1920, and it has mostly lain on the shelf since. A young English girl (an exuberant Paige Howard) acquires the odd habit of disappearing and reappearing some time later, untouched by time's passing. Gentle and melancholy, handsomely mounted by Tina Landau, ''Mary Rose'' is nonetheless itself touched by the mark of time (1:45). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood) 'MY TRIP TO AL-QAEDA' Lawrence Wright, author of a deeply researched book about the rise of Islamic terrorism, conducts a theatrical seminar about the events leading to the horror of 9/11. He combines a linear narrative of the development of Al Qaeda with reminiscences about the experience of writing the book. Absorbing, and chilling too (1:30). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood)* 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)* 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)* 'WAKE UP MR. SLEEPY! YOUR UNCONSCIOUS MIND IS DEAD!' Richard Foreman's latest film-theater hybrid is a memorial service, of sorts, for the intuitive self, killed by a surface-worshiping world. It is also a dazzling exercise in reality shifting that is as invigorating as it is mournful (1:05). Ontological Theater at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)Off Off Broadway'BAAL' The director Charmian Creagle's bright idea for staging Bertolt Brecht's often offensive first play -- about a poet and singer who is a monster of appetite -- was to cast the title role as a woman. The production is so poorly acted and drearily directed, however, that the casting does nothing to illuminate the play or open a meaningful inquiry into habitual reactions to it (2:15). Looking Glass Theater, 422 West 57th Street, Clinton, (212) 307-9467. (Kalb)'CONFIDENCE, WOMEN!' Robert Cucuzza's period piece about swindlers, liars and prostitutes is surprisingly sedate (1:30). Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, Greenwich Village, www.acmeactinglab.com. (Zinoman)Long-Running Shows'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)Last Chance'ALL THAT I WILL EVER BE' In this false-feeling comedy-drama by Alan Ball, creator of ''Six Feet Under,'' a gay hustler undergoes an identity crisis when he finds himself falling for one of his clients. Slick but mostly stale in its analysis of a society afraid of emotional engagement (2:15). The New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood)'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300; closes on Sunday. (Brantley)'THE FEVER' Wallace Shawn performs his provocative monologue about a guilt-riddled bourgeois everyman sweating his way through a moral crisis. The rich, often hypnotic writing draws us into his tortured mindscape, as he shifts between shame over his sense of entitlement and reasoned arguments that sacrifice is unnecessary and pointless. Meanwhile, in the third world, the violence and poverty continue unabated (1:30). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closes tonight. (Isherwood)'GOODNESS' ''Why do good people rush to do evil,'' Michael wants to know. ''And what do they become?'' The second question is the most daunting for a play, but the clarity of Michael Redhill's language, the economy of Ross Manson's direction and the excellent cast succeed in dramatizing its complexities. The haunting score sung a capella is based on folk songs from ''as far north as the Ukraine and as far south as Zimbabwe'' (1:30). Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at East Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Honor Moore)'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' and 'THE JEW OF MALTA' F. Murray Abraham plays two Elizabethan villains in repertory for the Theater for a New Audience. Mr. Abraham's sinister but still moving Shylock is the dark heart of Darko Tresnjak's chilly, powerful staging of one of Shakespeare's unfunniest comedies. As Barabas in David Herskovits's goofy, postmodern ''Jew of Malta,'' he's the lively center of a carnival that doesn't do justice to Christopher Marlowe's harsh satire on Christian hypocrisy and venality (each 2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood)'ORESTEIA' David Johnston's take on Aeschylus includes some of this irreverent playwright's trademark off-kilter sensibility but not his familiar flights of fancy (1:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, north of White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 868-4444; closes tomorrow. (Zinoman)'A VERY COMMON PROCEDURE' Courtney Baron's play suffers from a very common problem: For at least half of this one-act's running time, the characters onstage are talking to us, not one another. Paradoxically, this intimacy between audience and actors keeps the story -- an odd love affair between a woman grieving the death of her baby and the doctor involved in the baby's death -- at arm's length (1:20). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200; closes tomorrow. (Isherwood)MoviesRatings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.'THE ABANDONED' (R, 95 minutes) The title of this dull, hysterical horror movie seems to refer to its release strategy. The greatest mystery is why it showed up in theaters at all, rather than going straight to DVD. (A. O. Scott) 'AMAZING GRACE' (PG, 120 minutes) Michael Apted's prettified take on the life and times of the 18th-century reformer William Wilberforce carries a strong whiff of piety but is generally pleasing and often moving, and features fine performances from newcomers and veterans alike. (Manohla Dargis)'THE ASTRONAUT FARMER' (PG, 102 minutes) This sentimental fable about a Texas rancher who follows his dreams and builds a rocket ship in his barn is made bearable -- just -- by Billy Bob Thornton's underplayed performance in the lead role, and also by the wide-eyed visual wonderment of the director, Michael Polish, who is the co-writer of the picture with his twin brother, Mark. (Scott) * 'BAMAKO' (No rating, 118 minutes, in French and Bambara) Abdelrahmane Sissako's new film is an indictment of the West's complicity in Africa's misery, staged as a public trial of the World Bank and its affiliates. The film's passionate didacticism is both enriched and subverted by Mr. Sissako's deft, subtle attention to the details of daily life in the capital of Mali, where the movie takes place. (Scott)'BLACK SNAKE MOAN' (R, 116 minutes) Christina Ricci as a Tennessee nymphomaniac and Samuel Jackson as the blues singer who tries to cure her by fastening her half-naked self to his radiator with a chain. In spite of that summary, it's mostly corny uplift, from Craig Brewer, who also wrote and directed the down-home pimp fairy tale ''Hustle & Flow.'' (Scott)'BREACH' (PG-13, 110 minutes) In his fine, no-nonsense account of the capture of the F.B.I. agent-turned-mole Robert Philip Hanssen, the director Billy Ray manages to excite and unnerve despite our knowing the ending. Chris Cooper and Ryan Phillippe star. (Dargis)* 'BRIDGE TO TERABITHIA' (PG, 95 minutes) Grounded more in reality than in fantasy, this adaptation of Katherine Paterson's novel offers an affecting story of a transformative friendship between two gifted children. Beautifully capturing a time when a bully in school can loom as large as a troll in a nightmare, the director, Gabor Csupo, keeps the fantasy in the background to find magic in the everyday. (Jeannette Catsoulis) * 'THE CATS OF MIRIKITANI' (No rating, 74 minutes, in English and Japanese) Linda Hattendorf's remarkable documentary follows her growing friendship with a homeless artist from her New York City neighborhood. Born in Sacramento in 1920 and raised in Hiroshima, Jimmy Tsutomu Mirikitani relives his painful past with vivid paintings of internment camps and blood-red cities. When his health is threatened by the dust clouds of Sept. 11, Ms. Hattendorf moves him into her home, and what began as an interesting portrait of an outsider artist becomes a fascinating story of injustice and endurance. (Catsoulis)* 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Winner of the Oscar for best picture, Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis)'DREAMGIRLS' (PG-13, 131 minutes) The Broadway musical arrives on the screen, capably directed by Bill Condon, ardently acted and sung by Jamie Foxx, Eddie Murphy, Beyonce Knowles and (especially) Jennifer Hudson, who won a best-supporting-actress Oscar for her performance, but undone by mediocre and anachronistic songs. (Scott)'GHOST RIDER' (PG-13, 114 minutes) After a long string of financial flops, Nicolas Cage returns to play Johnny Blaze, a stunt motorcycle rider whose soul belongs to the Devil. Despite the promise of the first 30 minutes -- when Johnny is played by the charming young actor Matt Long -- a witless script and a central character who's more funny than frightening suggest that the filmmakers' franchise hopes may be dashed. (Catsoulis)'HANNIBAL RISING' (R, 121 minutes) This primer on Hannibal Lecter reduces a mythic villain to a callow, dysfunctional chef. Orphaned in World War II, our psychopathic hero hunts down his family's killers and snacks on their remains. But burrowing into the id of pop culture's most repulsive gourmet demands a sanguinary glee that the director, Peter Webber, may not possess; for all the movie's spurting gore, there's no rush of blood to the head. (Catsoulis)* 'INTO GREAT SILENCE' (No rating, 162 minutes, in English and Latin) Philip Groning's documentary about the lives of Carthusian monks living in a valley in the French Alps is slow, quiet and utterly spellbinding for the way it conveys the experience of spiritual devotion in simple, lovely images. (Scott)'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker, in an Oscar-winning performance, plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)* 'THE LIVES OF OTHERS' (R, 137 minutes, in German) Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's debut feature, winner of the Academy Award for best foreign-language film, takes place in East Berlin in 1984, and it is a smart, moving inquiry into the moral predicament facing good people in a bad system. Ulrich Muhe's performance as a conscience-stricken Stasi officer is a tightly wound tour de force, and Sebastian Koch and Martina Gedeck are both superb as a playwright and his actress lover who are drawn into the cruel, absurd clutches of the Communist secret police. (Scott)'MUSIC AND LYRICS' (PG-13, 96 minutes) Drew Barrymore and Hugh Grant phone in passable impersonations of themselves in this competent romantic comedy, which is somewhat enlivened by parodies of bad pop songs from both the 1980s and the present. (Scott)'THE NUMBER 23' (R, 95 minutes) An accidental comedy starring a deadly serious Jim Carrey that owes something to David Fincher, a little something else to Robert Anton Wilson and next to nothing, at least intentionally, to the gods of laughter, be they Gelus (Greek) or Jerry Lewis (American). (Dargis)* 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil-War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott)* 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren (who won an Oscar) in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis)'RENO 911!: MIAMI' (R, 81 minutes) The title more or less says all you need to know about the story, the action and the point. (Dargis)'ROCK BOTTOM' (No rating, 75 minutes) This graphic documentary by Jay Corcoran is a strong, scary examination of the crystal methedrine epidemic among gay men in New York. (Stephen Holden)'STARTER FOR TEN' (PG-13, 96 minutes) This amiable, nostalgic British comedy tackles a lofty subject -- the allure of knowledge --with down-to-earth charm, following a working-class kid (James McAvoy) during his first year at Bristol University and an appearance on the TV quiz show ''University Challenge.'' But beneath the formulaic embarrassments and fumbled learning curve lurks a more somber theme: the inevitable rupture between those who pursue an education and those left behind. (Catsoulis) 'TWO WEEKS' (R, 102 minutes) Sally Field creates a powerful portrait of a middle-aged North Carolina woman tended by her family, as she succumbs to ovarian cancer. This well-intentioned film is contaminated by its detours into sitcom humor. (Holden)'WILD HOGS' (PG-13, 100 minutes) Tame slop. (Scott)'WILD TIGERS I HAVE KNOWN' (No rating, 81 minutes) A lonely 13-year-old boy's awakening to his own homosexuality is evoked in Cam Archer's tender, excessively arty cinematic poem. (Holden)* 'ZODIAC' (R, 158 minutes) David Fincher's magnificently obsessive new film tracks the story of the serial killer who left dead bodies up and down California in the 1960s and possibly the '70s, and that of the men who tried to stop him. Set when the Age of Aquarius disappeared into the black hole of the Manson family murders, ''Zodiac'' is part police procedural, part monster movie, a funereal entertainment that is a testament to this cinematic savant's gifts. (Dargis)Film SeriesCANADIAN FRONT 2007 (Wednesday and Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art presents eight new features from Canada in its fourth annual survey of filmmaking up north. Wednesday's opening attractions are ''Remembering Arthur,'' a documentary by Martin Lavut about the Canadian experimental filmmaker Arthur Lipsett, and ''Away From Her,'' a drama directed by the actress Sarah Polley about a long-married couple (Julie Christie and Gordon Pinset) faced with the onset of Alzheimer's disease. There are six more films in the series, which runs through March 18. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)RENDEZ-VOUS WITH FRENCH CINEMA 2007 (Tonight through Sunday) Perennially popular and frequently sold out, this annual series sponsored by the French film export union, Unifrance, continues this week at both uptown (the Walter Reade Theater) and downtown locations (The IFC Center), with a wide-ranging mix of commercial and art house movies. This weekend's features suggest some of the spread: ''Murderers,'' directed by Patrick Grandperret, is a New Wavish road movie about two teenagers who escape from a psychiatric institution and take their love on the road; ''I Do'' stars one of France's most popular comedians, Alain Chabat, in the tale of a toxic bachelor whose family forces him into a series of hideous blind dates. Saturday brings ''The Untouchable,'' the new feature by the prolific and always provocative Benoit Jacquot (''Seventh Heaven''), with the ravishing Isild Le Besco as an actress who discovers a life-changing secret about her parentage. And the great craftsman of French boulevard comedy, Francis Veber (''The Dinner Game''), returns with ''The Valet,'' a farce about a parking lot attendant (Gad Elmaleh) who is hired by a wealthy industrialist (Daniel Auteuil) to act as a beard for the millionaire's mistress (Alice Taglioni). Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $10. IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, ifccenter.com; $10.75. (Kehr)PopFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.ANTIBALAS (Tomorrow) Antibalas delivers a New York makeover to Fela Kuti's Afrobeat, the Nigerian funk propelled by burly saxophones, fierce percussion and righteous anger. At 9 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Jon Pareles)* ANTONY AND THE JOHNSONS (Tonight) Orchestras are always scheming to attract ''young people'' (that is, people under 50), and the Brooklyn Philharmonic has come up with a smart idea, presenting serious pop artists backed with something special: an orchestra. Tonight is Antony, the quivering, androgynous prince of woe. At 8, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, brooklynphilharmonic.org; $25 to $105. (Ben Sisario)AQUALUNG (Monday) Matt Hales, the piano-playing Briton who records as Aqualung, borrows all the most tedious and indulgent aspects of Coldplay and Radiohead -- the slow-motion brooding, the epic self-pity -- while missing their joyful grandeur. With Sarah Bareilles. At 7 p.m., Hiro Ballroom, 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-0212, bowerypresents.com; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sisario)THE BRAVERY (Monday) Disco first met punk in Britain in the late '70s, but they have had quite a romance in turn-of-the-21st-century New York. The Bravery arrived a couple of years ago with catchy, radio-ready songs and buckets of hair gel; the band has been compared, accurately, to the Strokes, New Order, U2 and Franz Ferdinand. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)* CLINIC (Tonight) Dressed in surgical masks, this Liverpool band plays jabby, frantic rock with spikes of guitar noise and a beat that sounds like a countdown to something terrible. It's an invasive procedure, but when it gets going it's impossible to look away. At 8:30, Gramercy Theater, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; $18.50. (Sisario) STEVE EARLE (Monday and Tuesday) Steve Earle's America is a place full of mavericks, outcasts and stubborn hope. His voice is scarred and raspy, and his band is well rooted and far-reaching, playing generous sets that range across country and rock, from bluegrass to psychedelia. He makes his Blue Note debut with his new wife, the country-rocker Allison Moorer. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $25 at the bar; $5 minimum. (Pareles)FAB FAUX (Tuesday and Wednesday) There are Beatles tribute acts, and then there are Beatles tribute acts. This one, featuring the bassist Will Lee (of the ''Late Show With David Letterman'' band) and the guitarist Jimmy Vivino (from ''Late Night With Conan O'Brien''), recreates even the most complex studio work of the later Beatles without breaking a sweat. For these two concerts, it takes on some of the Beatles' solo work. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $35. (Sisario)GOMEZ, BEN KWELLER (Tonight) Gomez formed in the heyday of '90s Britpop with an against-the-grain obsession with tight, sharp blues-rock. On its latest album, ''How We Operate'' (ATO), the band has veered into folkier realms, but still plays with unusual precision and focus. Ben Kweller survived his time as a teenage rock prodigy and has carved out a niche as an ambitious singer-songwriter, playing all the instruments on his latest, self-titled album. At 6, Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $28. (Sisario)THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE QUEEN (Monday) The latest solo project by Damon Albarn of Blur and the Gorillaz has a stellar cast: Danger Mouse, the producer who is one-half of Gnarls Barkley; Tony Allen, Fela Kuti's drummer; and Paul Simonon, bassist of the Clash. They might have made a brilliant ruckus together, but their debut album is a strangely pulseless picture of England's wartime malaise. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario)* ISIS, JESU (Wednesday) Isis creates a fearsome sludge out of atonal guitars and a permanently distorted bass. As the music heads to repeated climaxes, it can resemble an ecstatic release or the last thrashings of a captured animal. Jesu, led by Justin Broadrick of the British industrial-metal pioneers Godflesh, soars on clouds of rumbling guitar noise that inevitably turn turbulent. At 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $16 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sisario)KEB' MO' (Thursday) Keb' Mo' (originally Kevin Moore) can sound like an old-time bluesman, with spiky guitar parts and gruff, knowing vocals; lately, he has also been writing songs that offer kindly advice in unassuming pop-folk settings. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, the-townhall-nyc.org; $35 and $50. (Pareles)MANA (Wednesday and Thursday) Mexico's most popular rock group, Mana mingles its Police-derived groove with elements of norteno and reggae, and sings about human rights, environmentalism and AIDS. But plenty of the band's songs are about the good old battle of the sexes too: its latest album is ''Amar es Combatir'' (''To Love Is to Fight''). At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $46 to $105.50. (Sisario)MATT AND KIM (Tonight) Meet indie-rock's ultimate birthday band: a Brooklyn couple who pound organ and drums through irrationally exuberant, major-key romps that seem equal parts garage-rock and Nintendo. With Professor Murder and Dynamite Arrows. At 9, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)* OF MONTREAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) Of Montreal, which emerged in the '90s with the Elephant Six collective of neo-psychedelic bands in Athens, Ga., plays giddy, harmonically rambling songs by Kevin Barnes, who's clearly a Beach Boys and Beatles fan. With Grand Buffett and Mixel Pixel tonight, and Loney, Dear tomorrow. At 9, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; sold out. Emil Svanangen, the Swedish songwriter who records moody, pulsating and melodic music as Loney, Dear, also plays on Monday at 8 at Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; sold out. (Pareles)120 DAYS, SHOUT OUT OUT OUT OUT (Tonight and tomorrow night) These two groups are separated by thousands of miles but are equally obsessed with erotic, electronic dance-rock. 120 Days, from Norway, adds rock 'n' roll thrust and considerable gloom to the perpetual-motion techno of Kraftwerk and Giorgio Moroder. Shout Out Out Out Out, a six-piece from Edmonton, Alberta, that includes four bassists, grooves along happily and sweatily with bubbling synthesizers and robotic vocals. Tonight at 8:30, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; tomorrow night at 8:30, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Sisario)* POGUES (Wednesday and Thursday) The band that made punk look like traditional music -- and vice versa -- plays the first two of three shows for what Guinness now calls the ''St. Patrick's Day season.'' Last year the Pogues made their first appearances in New York in 15 years with Shane MacGowan, their Dionysian, damaged former singer, and Mr. MacGowan is back on board again. With the Holloways on Wednesday, and Langhorne Slim on Thursday. At 8 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $54 in advance, $57 at the door. (Sisario) RAVEONETTES (Tomorrow through Monday) This Danish duo is in love with all the sexy, silly rock of pre-hippie America: motorcycle vamps, Buddy Holly melodies and Sam Cooke chain gangs. It blares through a repertory of lean, minimalist tunes with a noisy nihilism derived from the Velvet Underground and the Jesus and Mary Chain. With the Pity Party. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; Sunday at 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; Monday at 9:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $15. (Sisario)ANOUSHKA SHANKAR (Tonight) Ms. Shankar, the sitarist, 25, who has up to this point been an aesthetic acolyte of her father's (Ravi Shankar's) lithe, neo-traditional take on improvisatory raga, has recently been experimenting with a combination of acoustic and electronic backing instrumentation. At 8, LaGuardia Performing Arts Center, LaGuardia Community College, 47th Avenue at Van Dam Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 482-5151, lagcc.cuny.edu; $30; $15 for students. (Pareles)* SHINS (Wednesday) The Shins emerged from Albuquerque at the turn of the millennium with a sound that slowly but inevitably catapulted them to the upper ranks of the indiesphere: wistful and acoustic, with an adventurousness that sometimes leads to something like psychedelia. (Natalie Portman's exhortation in ''Garden State'' that the band's music will ''change your life'' didn't hurt.) At 8 p.m., Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $37.50. (Sisario)CHRIS SMITHER (Tonight) With a weary, well-traveled voice and a serenely intricate fingerpicking style, Mr. Smither turns the blues into songs that accept hard-won lessons and try to make peace with fate. ''Love You Like a Man,'' the song Bonnie Raitt borrowed from him in the 1970s, only hints at the thoughtful intensity of his more recent work. At 7, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $22. (Pareles)BOB WEIR AND RATDOG (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Weir, the rhythm guitarist in the Grateful Dead and the kind of musician who lives to be on the road, winds up a three-night stand at the Beacon Theater with his six-piece band Ratdog, playing rock standards and Dead favorites. At 8, Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171; beacontheatrenyc.com; $39.50 and $49.50. (Sisario)THE WHO (Sunday) Anyone who missed Pete Townshend's impassioned solo renditions of ''The Real Me,'' ''Acid Queen'' and ''Won't Get Fooled Again'' at Joe's Pub a few weeks ago have another chance to hear them in a slightly larger context, the Nassau Coliseum on Long Island. Maybe Lou Reed, who at Joe's Pub played Velvet Underground songs with Mr. Townshend as jaws dropped all around them, will make an appearance. But don't count on it. At 8 p.m., 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; $52 to $97. (Sisario)* AMY WINEHOUSE, PIPETTES (Tuesday) Ms. Winehouse, an R&B singer who in her single ''You Know I'm No Good'' is tough enough to tell Roger Moore she's too high-maintenance for him, is a budding star back home in England and has begun her American campaign. The Pipettes are a different kind of retro vocal act: three young British women who dress in identical polka dots and mimic '60s girl groups in harmonies that are strictly approximate. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. The Pipettes also play on Sunday and Monday at 9 p.m. at the Luna Lounge, 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, lunalounge.com; $10 in advance, $12 at the door (sold out on Monday). (Sisario)JazzFull reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.REZ ABBASI'S BAZAAR (Tomorrow) On his most recent album, ''Bazaar'' (Zoho), the guitarist Rez Abbasi infuses Southeast Asian motifs with rock bombast and jazz flexibility. He revisits that material here with the alto saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa, the bassist Carlo DeRosa and the drummer Sunny Jain. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen) MICHAEL ATTIAS AND TWINES OF COLESION (Wednesday) A saxophonist and composer with a taste for inquisitive frictions, Michael Attias presents a group featuring his fellow saxophonist Tony Malaby, along with Russ Lossing on Wurlitzer piano, John Hebert on bass and Satoshi Takeishi on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)GREGG AUGUST (Thursday) Mr. August, a capable bassist, has also proved himself a sensible small-group composer in the Cedar Walton vein. He leads his solid working sextet, which features the saxophonists Myron Walden and Joel Frahm. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $12. (Chinen)ERNESTO CERVINI QUARTET (Sunday) Ernesto Cervini is a young Canadian drummer with a likable new self-released album called ''Here.'' He leads a post-bop group with Joel Frahm on tenor and soprano saxophones, Kristjan Randalu on piano and Joe Martin on bass. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)GEORGE COLEMAN QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Fluent and fiery hard bop, from a well-traveled saxophonist and an excellent rhythm section that includes the pianist Harold Mabern. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)DICK & DEREK AT THE MOVIES (Tomorrow) The pianists Dick Hyman and Derek Smith lovingly interpret songs from movies like ''Gigi'' and ''Brigadoon,'' with a promising ensemble that includes the tenor saxophonist Harry Allen, the bassist Jay Leonhart and the drummer Winard Harper. A third pianist, Rossano Sportiello, also lends a hand (or two). At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, www.92y.org; $45. (Chinen)DOWNRIGHT UPRIGHT ALL STARS (Monday) Brian Bromberg, a bassist with extensive studio credits, has a new album, ''Downright Upright'' (Artistry), that focuses on acoustic grooves. Here Mr. Bromberg leads an extroverted ensemble with Randy Brecker on trumpet, Gary Meek on saxophones, Jeff Lorber on keyboards and Dave Weckl on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)ANAT FORT (Tuesday) Ms. Fort is a prepossessing young pianist with an auspicious new debut on the ECM label. She performs her own music with a quartet consisting of the multireedist Perry Robinson, the bassist Ed Schuller and the drummer Roland Schneider. At 7 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)DON FRIEDMAN QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Don Friedman's stylistic history as a pianist runs from traditional to left-of-center; his group here includes the baritone saxophonist Gary Smulyan, the bassist Doug Weiss and the drummer Tony Jefferson. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)LOUIS HAYES QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) As propulsive a hard-bop group as you could hope for, led by the veteran drummer Louis Hayes and featuring the trumpeter Duane Eubanks, the saxophonist J. D. Allen, the pianist Anthony Wonsey and the bassist Richie Goods. At 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)* THE HEATH BROTHERS (Tuesday through Thursday) Nearly two years after the loss of their brother, Percy, a bassist and cellist, the saxophonist Jimmy Heath and the drummer Albert (Tootie) Heath soldier on. Peter Washington handles bass duties, and Jeb Patton plays piano. (Through March 18.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)ICTUS RECORDS 30TH ANNIVERSARY RENAISSANCE PROJECT (Tonight) The percussionist Andrea Centazzo throws a party for his Ictus Records, an indie label with a focus on free improvisation. He has the ideal fellow celebrants: Badal Roy on tabla, Nobu Stowe on piano and Perry Robinson on saxophones. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)BRIGGAN KRAUSS, IKUE MORI AND JIM BLACK (Tuesday) Texturally minded open improvisation, courtesy of Mr. Krauss, a razor-edged alto saxophonist; Ms. Mori, an electronic percussionist; and Mr. Black, a dynamic drummer. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)* STEVE KUHN TRIO (Wednesday and Thursday) The pianist Steve Kuhn reconvenes an all-star trio he formed 20 years ago, with Ron Carter on bass and Al Foster on drums. Their last run here was recorded, and the resulting Blue Note release, ''Live at Birdland,'' is a knockout. (Through March 17.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)* THE LATIN SIDE OF WAYNE SHORTER (Wednesday and Thursday) Continuing an experiment that has already tapped the songbooks of John Coltrane and Miles Davis, the trombonist Conrad Herwig tilts his ear toward another titan of jazz modernism. Among his partners in clave are the trumpeter Brian Lynch and the pianist Eddie Palmieri, who recently won a Grammy for their collaborative album, ''Simpatico.'' (Through March 18.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)SABIR MATEEN (Thursday) Mr. Mateen, an adventurous multireedist, leads two separate projects here: his Shapes Textures and Sound Ensemble, which includes the trombonist Steve Swell (at 8 p.m.); and his Jubilee Ensemble, which conscripts more than a dozen improvisers in a shifting polyphony (at 10 p.m.). The Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10 a set. (Chinen)JOE MORRIS TRIO (Tomorrow) The fluidly inventive guitarist and bassist Joe Morris actually leads a pair of trios tomorrow night: one with the tenor saxophonist Peter Cancuree and the drummer Jason Nazary (at 8 p.m.), and another with the cellist Daniel Levin and the drummer Michael Evans (at 10 p.m.). At the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10 a set. (Chinen)MARK MURPHY (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Murphy is a singer known mainly for sly insouciance, but on his last album, ''Once to Every Heart'' (Verve), he opted for a burnished and broken romanticism. He performs here with a backing quartet let by the pianist Misha Piatigorsky. (Through March 18.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)ARTURO O'FARRILL TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Arturo O'Farrill, the pianist and bandleader of Jazz at Lincoln Center's Afro-Latin Jazz Orchestra, knows how to energize in smaller settings; his regular trio features Alex Blake on bass and Jamie Affoumado on drums. At 9:15, 10:40 and midnight, Puppets Jazz Bar, 294 Fifth Avenue, near Second Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 499-2627, puppetsjazz.com; cover, $10 and a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)PARAPHRASE (Thursday) A collective trio -- Tim Berne, alto saxophonist; Drew Gress, bassist; and Tom Rainey, drummer -- engaging in an interplay that's unscripted but hardly formless. The visual artists Steve Byram and Jonathan Rosen add an additional layer of abstraction in this performance, which precedes a European tour. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; donation, $5. (Chinen)MATT PAVOLKA (Sunday) Mr. Pavolka, a bassist, leads a group of freethinking but lyrical players: Ben Monder, guitarist; Pete Rende, keyboardist; and Ted Poor, drummer. In a preceding set, at 7 p.m., the saxophonist Igor Lumpert presents Vitamin Museum, a well-fortified young quintet. At 9 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800; suggested cover, $5. (Chinen)KEN PEPLOWSKI QUARTET (Thursday) Ken Peplowski, a versatile clarinetist and tenor saxophonist, works here with a crisp and accomplished set of rhythm-section players: the pianist Bill Charlap, the bassist Martin Wind and the drummer Joe LaBarbara. (Through March 18.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Chinen)* TO PREZ, WITH LOVE (Sunday) The Lester Young Memorial Celebration, a benefit for the jazz ministry at St. Peter's Church, is a sprawling affair by design; this 23rd edition boasts dozens of musicians and advocates, like the saxophonist Lee Konitz, the trombonist Benny Powell and the pianist Dick Katz. At 7 p.m., St. Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-2200, saintpeters.org; donation, $15. (Chinen)WALLACE RONEY (Tomorrow and Sunday) Mr. Roney leads a hard-hitting band with his brother, Antoine Roney, on tenor and soprano saxophone; Robert Irving on piano; Rashaan Carter on bass; Val Jeanty on turntables; and Eric Allen on drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set tomorrow, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)KENDRA SHANK (Tuesday) A superbly skilled vocalist, Ms. Shank interprets jazz and pop liberally, but with an abiding respect for melody. On her new album, ''A Spirit Free: Abbey Lincoln Songbook'' (Challenge), she pays smart homage to one of her influences with a band that includes the saxophonist and clarinetist Billy Drewes, the pianist Frank Kimbrough and the guitarist Ben Monder, who all appear here. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)SONIC LIBERATION FRONT (Sunday) The percussionist Kevin Diehl is the de facto leader of this experimental Afro-Cuban jazz ensemble, but its sound -- as captured on a recent album, ''Change Over Time'' (High Two) -- reflects a deep and focused sense of collectivity. At Jimmy's Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)GRANT STEWART (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Mr. Stewart is an uncommonly proficient tenor saxophonist, as he confirms on a bebop-steeped new album, ''In the Still of the Night'' (Sharp Nine). Tomorrow he leads a trio in the grotto adjoining La Lanterna di Vittorio restaurant; on Tuesday he holds down his weekly quartet gig. Tomorrow at 9 and 11:15 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 MacDougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; cover, $8, with a one-drink minimum. Tuesday at 10:30 p.m., Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, fatcatjazz.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)* CECIL TAYLOR'S AHA 3 / JOHN ZORN'S MASADA (Tonight and tomorrow night) Cecil Taylor, the leonine patriarch of fiery free-jazz piano, has intuitive peers in the bassist Henry Grimes and the drummer Pheeroan akLaff. As for Masada, it is among the best-loved ensembles of the prolific alto saxophonist and composer John Zorn: a dynamic Jewish-tinged avant-garde quartet featuring Dave Douglas on trumpet, Greg Cohen on bass and Joey Baron on drums. At 8, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $37.50 to $127.50. (Chinen)DAVID S. WARE / MATTHEW SHIPP AND GUILLERMO E. BROWN (Sunday) The sound of Mr. Ware's tenor saxophone can assume almost orchestral dimensions, as he demonstrated on a powerful recording, ''Live in the Netherlands,'' in 2001. This rare solo performance will precede a dialogue between two alumni of Mr. Ware's acclaimed (and now defunct) quartet: Mr. Shipp, on piano, and Mr. Brown, on laptop computer. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $20 for the first set, $10 for the second. (Chinen)WAVERLY SEVEN (Wednesday) Marking the release of a new album, ''Yo! Bobby'' (Anzic), the smart young clarinetist and saxophonist Anat Cohen leads a high-spirited instrumental tribute to Bobby Darin, with a blue-chip ensemble that includes Scott Robinson on baritone saxophone, Avishai Cohen on trumpet and Jason Lindner on piano. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)Classical
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.
 Opera* 'DIE AGYPTISCHE HELENA' (Thursday) Richard Strauss is among the greatest opera composers of the 20th century, yet for a long time the Santa Fe Opera was virtually the only place in the United States that many of his works could be heard. His opera about the most beautiful woman in the world is slow going and hasn't been staged at the Metropolitan Opera since its United States premiere production in 1928. But it's worth hearing for its rich music and, in the Met's new production (by David Fielding) that opens on Thursday, a crack cast, led by Deborah Voigt and Diana Damrau, with Jill Grove in one of opera's more unusual roles, the Omniscient Mussel. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $50 to $550 tickets remaining. (Anne Midgette)* 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Wednesday) Bartlett Sher's breezy new production of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' introduced in November, conveys the comic confusions of the story through its fluid staging and a wonderfully abstract set: a matrix of movable doors, staircases and potted orange trees, behind which characters spy on one another. The heated sexuality of the characters also comes through strongly, thanks to Mr. Sher's subtle directing of a handsome cast. The baritone Peter Mattei is a robust and agile Figaro. The tenor Juan Diego Florez could not be more adorable as the amorous Count Almaviva, though his voice sounds pinched and shaky at times. Joyce DiDonato, a captivating young mezzo-soprano, takes over the role of Rosina. Maurizio Benini conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)DESSOFF CHOIRS (Tomorrow) ''Musicians Wrestle Everywhere'' is the attention-getting header for a concert of 20th- and 21st-century choral music by this fine choir; it's actually the title of a piece on the program by the increasingly famous Elliott Carter. To the group's credit, it is exploring all kinds of directions off the beaten track: Mr. Carter is the most familiar name on a roster of composers that includes James Bassi, William Duckworth and Phillip Rhodes. The highlight is a world premiere by Kyle Gann, a composer, writer and teacher who is a strong advocate for moving away from well-worn musical paths; ''my father moved through dooms of love'' is the setting of a poem by e. e. cummings. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, (212) 501-3330; $20 in advance; $25 at the door; $15 for 65+ and students with ID. (Midgette)'FAUST' (Monday) Gounod's lush score is back at the Met in Andrei Serban's staging, now less hyperactive than when it was introduced in 2005. Alas, someone appears to have gotten to its soul before Mephistopheles had the chance: the singers, though all fine, put the drama at arm's length, so the work's intense passions don't quite come through. In the cast: Ramon Vargas in the title role, Ruth Ann Swenson as Marguerite and Ildar Abdrazakov as Mephistopheles, with Maurizio Benini conducting. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $80 to $375 remaining tickets. (Allan Kozinn)'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Sunday and Wednesday) All of the kudos for the Metropolitan Opera's new ''Butterfly'' this season, deserved though they were, seemed rather to overlook the fact that City Opera's elegant, beautiful and abstract ''Butterfly'' partakes of a similar aesthetic, and got there first. There is all the more reason to see the City Opera version, which returns tonight in another installment of the company's popular, $25-a-ticket series, ''Opera for All,'' and sticks around through April 22. Angela Maria Blasi, an established singer in Europe, makes her company debut as Cio-Cio San. Sunday afternoon at 1:30, Wednesday night at 7:30, New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $125. (Midgette)* 'DIE MEISTERSINGER VON NURNBERG (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Otto Schenk's captivating 1993 production of Wagner's humanely comic masterpiece ''Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg is back in the repertory, and the cast is exceptional. The voice of the veteran bass James Morris may be a little patchy these days, but he inhabits the role of Hans Sachs, the wise cobbler and beloved mastersinger, singing with compelling integrity and nobility. The tenor Johan Botha makes a portly Walther, but gives a vocally triumphant account of this demanding role. The fine soprano Hei-Kyung Hong is a lovely and lyrical Eva. And James Levine, in a score he has made a specialty, conducts a nuanced, elegant and stirring performance. (The American conductor John Keenan conducts the final performance on Tuesday night.) Tomorrow at noon, Tuesday at 6 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $72 to $220 tomorrow, $15 to $375 on Tuesday. (Tommasini)'SIMON BOCCANEGRA' (Tonight) This is the last performance of a revival by the Metropolitan Opera of Verdi's dark melodrama. Angela Marambia takes over as Amelia, and Marcus Haddock as Gabriele. Thomas Hampson and Ferruccio Furlanetto remain. Fabio Luisi is the strong conductor. At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $15 to $375. (Bernard Holland)'LA TRAVIATA' (Tomorrow) For its revival of Verdi's ''Traviata,'' in Franco Zeffirelli's extravagant 1998 production, the Met is rotating casts, with three sopranos sharing the role of Violetta this season. The earthy Bulgarian soprano Krassimira Stoyanova, who made her Met debut in 2001 and who was recently heard at the house as Nedda in ''Pagliacci,'' sings Violetta, the role of her debut. The compelling German tenor Jonas Kaufmann sings Alfredo, Violetta's impulsive lover, with the veteran American baritone Dwayne Croft as Alfredo's tragically interfering father, Germont. Marco Armiliato conducts. At 8:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $150 to $375 tickets remaining. (Tommasini) Classical MusicBARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) The offerings at this intimate, floating chamber music hall this week are from the heart of the standard canon. This weekend it's all Schubert, Schumann and Brahms: tonight and tomorrow Gerald Robbins plays Schubert's Sonata in A, Schumann's Grand Sonata No. 1 in F sharp minor and the Brahms ''Handel'' Variations. On Sunday Mr. Robbins is joined by Glenn Dicterow, the violinist; Karen Dreyfus, the violist; and Frederick Zlotkin, the cellist, for Schubert's Adagio and Rondo Concertante, Schumann's E flat Piano Quartet and Brahms's G minor Piano Quartet. On Thursday the cellist Nathaniel Rosen and the pianist Doris Stevenson play the first installment of a traversal of Beethoven's complete works for cello and piano. Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday nights at 8, Sunday at 4, Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ tonight and Thursday only. (Kozinn)JOSHUA BELL, STEVEN ISSERLIS AND JEREMY DENK (Sunday) The violinist, cellist and pianist, respectively, come to one of the Y's Sunday afternoon family concerts, this one entitled ''Why Handel Waggled his Wig.'' At 3, 92nd Street Y, Kaufmann Concert Hall, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, www.92y.org; $16. (Holland)* JONATHAN BISS (Thursday) This outstanding 26-year-old pianist, notable for the depth and finesse of his playing, returns to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to perform a recital as part of the Piano Forte series. He will perform Mozart's Sonata in F (K. 533/494); Webern's Variations for Piano (Op. 27); Beethoven's Sonata in C Minor (Op. 13, ''Pathetique'') and Schumann's ''Kreisleriana'' (Op. 16). Judging by his recent EMI recording, ''Kreisleriana'' should be a particular treat. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $40. (Vivien Schweitzer)BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow) Michael Christie may still be finding his way as music director of the Brooklyn Philharmonic, but he seems fully at home with what has long been an adventurous orchestra. His program includes two works by Osvaldo Golijov -- ''Last Round'' and a new orchestration of ''Dreams and Prayers of Isaac the Blind,'' with David Krakauer as the clarinet soloist -- set beside the Mahler First Symphony. Connections? Both Golijov's ''Dreams'' and the Mahler draw on klezmer moves. At 8, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, brooklynphilharmonic.org. (Tommasini)COUNTER)INDUCTION (Sunday) This innovative new-music ensemble explores contemporary repertory by Japanese composers, including Dai Fujikura's ''Eternal Escape,'' for cello; Jo Kondo's ''Standing,'' for open instrumentation; Misato Mochizuki's ''All that is including me,'' for bass clarinet, violin and bass flute; Toshio Hosokawa's ''Vertical Time Study,'' for cello, piano and clarinet; and Moto Osada's ''Kaguyama Dance,'' for viola and piano. At 8 p.m., Tenri Cultural Center, 43A West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 645-2800, tenri.org; $15 suggested donation. (Schweitzer)LEON FLEISHER (Tomorrow) This longstanding concert series on Irving Place, under the auspices of Peoples' Symphony Concerts, offers quality music at reasonable prices in less than glamorous surroundings. This distinguished pianist visits, with older pieces by Bach, Brahms and Schubert and newer ones by Stravinsky, Leon Kirchner and Dina Koston. At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $9. (Holland)* JUAN DIEGO FLoREZ, VINCENZO SCALERA (Tomorrow) The young Peruvian tenor Juan Diego Florez is enjoying international popularity right now, understandably so. He brings dashing vigor, impressive vocal agility and undeniable charisma to his portrayals of Bel Canto roles. Some critics and buffs worry, though, that a pinched and hard-edged quality is affecting his sound of late. So his long-awaited Carnegie Hall recital should provide a revealing opportunity to hear him simply sing a program of songs by Mozart, Faure, Bizet, Rossini and others. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $95. (Tommasini)LIONHEART (Sunday) This superb vocal sextet specializes in Medieval and Renaissance music. Its program, ''El Siglo de Oro,'' looks at 16th-century Spanish music. At 1 and 3 p.m., the Cloisters, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 650-2290, metmuseum.org; $35. (Kozinn)JON NAKAMATSU (Wednesday) The winner of the 1997 Van Cliburn International Piano Competition, Mr. Nakamatsu is an elegant player with a strong but not overtly showy technique. His recital program includes a handful of Scarlatti Sonatas; Rachmaninoff's Variations on a Theme by Corelli; works by Chopin (long a specialty of Mr. Nakamatsu's) and Liszt; and the New York premiere of Loris Tjeknavorian's ''Danses Fantastiques.'' At 8, Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $20 to $40. (Kozinn)NEW YORK COLLEGIUM (Thursday) Andrew Parrott, music director of this period-instrument ensemble, leads a program called ''Leipzig 1723: Mr. Bach Comes to Town,'' featuring J. S. Bach's Cantatas (BWV 22, 23 and 75). Soloists for the concert include the soprano Emily van Evera, the tenor Marc Molomot, the bass Curtis Streetman, the violinist Cynthia Roberts and the oboist Stephen Hammer. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, 66th Street at Lexington Avenue, (212) 717-9246, nycollegium.org; $30, $45 and $60. (Schweitzer)NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Thursday) Young Alan Gilbert comes to the Philharmonic conducting Bach and Schumann. Christian Tetzlaff is soloist in the Ligeti Violin Concerto. At 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $28 to $94. (Holland)ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S (Thursday) Hans Graf, the Austrian conductor and music director of the Houston Symphony, leads the orchestra in a trio of ''lasts'': the String Sextet from ''Capriccio,'' Richard Strauss's final opera; Mozart's Symphony No. 40, one of the last works he wrote in the genre; and Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 5 (''Emperor''), with Garrick Ohlsson, a fine pianist, as soloist. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $23 to $52. (Schweitzer)* SUSAN PLATTS (Sunday) When Rolex sponsored yearlong mentoring projects between famous artists and rising young ones, this Canadian mezzo-soprano was selected to work with Jessye Norman. Some of the fruits of her labors, expressed in a voice agreeably light in weight and dark in color, will be displayed at a wide-ranging recital that includes songs by Brahms and Barber, Vaughan Williams, Robert and Clara Schumann, and the Scottish singer and folksong collector Marjorie Kennedy-Fraser. At 5 p.m., Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 547-0715, frick.org; $25. (Midgette)ORATORIO SOCIETY OF NEW YORK (Tuesday) Kent Tritle is not only one of the best figures on the New York organ and choral music scene, but one of the most dizzyingly active. Named music director of the venerable Oratorio Society in 2006, he leads it this week in an interesting program that juxtaposes Honegger's ''King David'' with Stravinsky's Mass. The soloists are Rachel Rosales, Anna Jablonski, Matthew Garrett and Alexander Hajek, with the 10-year-old treble Andres Felipe Aristizabal as the young David, and Katie Geissinger, a sometime member of Meredith Monk's ensemble, as the Witch of Endor. Jeff Spurgeon, the WQXR announcer, makes his Carnegie Hall debut as the narrator. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $17 to $60. (Midgette)CHRISTIAN POLTERA (Tonight) Christian Poltera, a Swiss cellist, and Polina Leschenko, a Russian pianist, present a Distinctive Debut recital, part of the Rising Stars project. The two young musicians will perform Schumann's Fantasiestucke (Op. 73), Prokofiev's Cello Sonata and Rachmaninoff's Sonata for Cello and Piano in G minor (Op. 19). At 7:30, Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $28. (Schweitzer)RUSSIAN NATIONAL ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) Vladimir Jurowski conducts a program that will keep these Russian players thinking about home: music by Stravinsky, Tchaikovsky and Prokofiev. Leonidas Kavakos is the violin soloist. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $35 to $69. (Holland)DanceFull reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.BRIDGMAN/PACKER DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) This troupe explores the concept of ''video partnering,'' as Art Bridgman and Myrna Packer put it. Their video collaborators are Peter Bobrow, Jim Monroe and Matthias Oostrik. On hand to provide the live music will be Robert Een, Ken Field and Glen Velez. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, dnadance.org; $25. (Jennifer Dunning) BUGLISI DANCE THEATER (Tuesday through Thursday) A rich repertory includes new works by Jacqulyn Buglisi, among them ''Caravaggio Meets Hopper,'' which juxtaposes images from two painters, one passionate, the other detached in manner; ''Acapelorus (a walrus tale),'' inspired by a New Orleans wall of children's drawings and writings; and ''Atom Hearts Club Suite No. 1,'' which combines several modern-dance techniques. (Through March 18.) Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $36. (Jack Anderson)'CHUNK IN 9 PIECES' (Tonight and tomorrow night) The four newish choreographers here -- Rebecca Alaly, Joanna Dee, Shelley Hardin and Ryuji Yamaguchi -- get the week's award for most intriguing program title. Tonight at 9, tomorrow at 7:30, Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (917) 750-2361, chunk9@gmail.com; $10. (Dunning) TINA CROLL AND COMPANY (Thursday) A collage of images and emotions, ''Ancient Springs'' presents such visions as a ritualistic tea party, a karate minuet, a danced dream to Ethiopian jazz and a ceremony in which the Lord's Prayer is recited in Cherokee and Zulu. (Through March 18.) At 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15. (Anderson)DANCE AT DIXON PLACE (Tomorrow and Sunday) In a series called ''Brink,'' work will be presented by Laura Berlin Stinger and Nancy Forshaw-Clapp, chosen by the curator Michael Helland. At 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, dixonplace.org; $12; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)PHILIPPE DECOUFLE (Tonight and tomorrow night) This French choreographer is well known for his wonderfully entertaining and often poetic large-scale productions that blend dance, circus, music hall and theater. It's a surprise to find him performing a solo, called ''Solo: Le Doute M'Habite'' (''The Doubt Within Me''), but there are likely to be visual tricks, humor and theatrical magic aplenty. At 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $38; $29 for Joyce members. (Roslyn Sulcas) 'EDWARD SCISSORHANDS' (Wednesday and Thursday) Conceived, directed and choreographed by Matthew Bourne, this re-envisioning of Tim Burton's dark 1990 film of the same title revisits the theme of the outsider, here a gentle boy with scissors for hands. (Through March 31.) Wednesday at 7 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m. (Mr. Bourne will discuss the piece in a pre-performance talk on Thursday at 6 p.m.), Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $30 to $80; $8 for discussion. (Dunning)THE 4 TANGO SEASONS (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) This show explores nature's cycles as seen through a man and a woman in love. (Through April 1.) Tonight and Thursday night at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 729-3880, thaliatheatre.org; $30; $27 for students and 65+; all tickets $25 tonight and Thursday. (Dunning)IRISH MODERN DANCE THEATER (Thursday) The company director, John Scott, describes the repertory of this Dublin-based troupe as a mix of performance art, contact improvisation and mainstream modern-dance techniques. The program includes his own work and dances by the German choreographer Thomas Lehmen and by Chris Yon of New York. (Through March 18.) At 8 p.m., Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, ps122.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)* JOFFREY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday) The company, now based in Chicago, makes a rare visit to New York in performances, at two theaters, of Kurt Jooss's ''Green Table,'' George Balanchine's ''Apollo'' and Twyla Tharp's ''Deuce Coupe.'' Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University, Route 25A, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org; $40 to $75. Sunday at 5 p.m., Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6200; $45. (Dunning)LE VU LONG/TOGETHER HIGHER (Thursday) In ''Stories of Us,'' the Vietnamese choreographer Le Vu Long mingles various dance forms with striking visual designs to comment on gender stereotypes and life-threatening illness. (Through March 17.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $20; $12 for students and 65+. (Anderson) MAYDANCE (Thursday) Juliana F. May's ''Endless House'' ranges in subject matter from the simple life of the amoeba to the complexities of the human experience. (Through March 17.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; $15. (Anderson)MOJITO -- THE LATIN MUSIC SERIES (Tonight and tomorrow night) Latin music is the theme, but the lineup of choreographers and performers, assembled by DancenOw/NYC for its DancemOpolitan series, is stylistically all-encompassing. Featured artists include Donlin Foreman, Max Pollak and a duo known as the Horny Girls. At 9:30, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555 for ticket reservations, (212) 539-8778 for table reservations, joespub.com; $20. (Dunning) 92nd STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL (Tomorrow, Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) The Dusan Tynek Dance Theater performs dances that address decidedly unusual themes created by the troupe's founder, a Czech-born choreographer who has a style that is vivid and quirky in a quietly powerful, folk-art way. His new ''Fleur-de-lis,'' for example, a three-part reimagining of religious paintings and the emotions contained in them, is a dance set to music by the Baroque composer Heinrich Ignaz Franz von Biber. Zvi Gotheiner's ZviDance closes the festival with his new ''Gertrud,'' inspired by an early mentor, the Israeli dance teacher Gertrud Kraus, and ''Les Noces.'' Tynek tomorrow at 8 p.m., and Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m. ZviDance on Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m. (Through March 18.) Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500, 92Y.org/HarknessFestival; $20. (Dunning) * DESMOND RICHARDSON AND THE ALL STARS PROJECT (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Richardson and 15 performers from All Stars, a cultural program for teenagers from New York City and Newark, have created ''Homeland Security: Bringing Dr. King Up to Date,'' a multimedia piece that questions American notions of ''homeland'' and ''security.'' (Through April 4.) Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 2 p.m., All Stars Project Theater, 543 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 941-1234, allstars.org; $30 and $35, T.D.F. vouchers accepted. (Dunning) * 651 ARTS: JANT-BI COMPANY (Tomorrow) This lively, enterprising arts center continues its ''Black Dance: Tradition and Transformation'' series with a performance by the JANT-Bi Company of Senegal of ''Fagaala,'' which addresses genocide in choreography by Germaine Acogny and Kota Yamazaki. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4181, Ext. 2229, 651arts.org; $20 to $40. (Dunning)'SUNDAYS @ THREE': DANIEL CHARON (Sunday) In the latest installment of this informal dance-and-discussion series, Mr. Charon will present works in progress that address how our relationships help us to understand ourselves. At 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, www.92Y.org/dance; $10. (Dunning)* PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Thursday) The company offers a little of everything this week. For premieres, there is ''Troilus and Cressida (reduced)'' (tonight, tomorrow afternoon and Wednesday) and ''Lines of Loss (tomorrow). For sexy good fun, keep ''Piazzolla Caldera'' in mind (tonight and Tuesday), with lush beauty to be had in ''Arden Court'' (tomorrow afternoon) and ''Roses'' (Sunday). Then there is the dark Taylor, in ''Banquet of Vultures'' (Tuesday). The facets all come together in ''Company B'' (Sunday), ostensibly a salute to the World War II-era songs sung by the Andrews Sisters but in reality a funny, sexy and heartbreaking look at love and loss that is pure Taylor. (Through March 18.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday through Thursday at 7 p.m. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, citycenter.org; $15 to $125. (Dunning)ArtMuseums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
 Museums* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: MARTIN RAMIREZ, through April 29. Ramirez, a Mexican peasant who immigrated to Northern California and died there at 68 in 1963, spent the last 32 years of his life in a mental hospital, making some of the greatest art of the last century. He had his own way with materials and color and an unforgettable cast of characters (most notably, a mounted caballero and a levitating Madonna crowned like the Statue of Liberty.) But most of all, Ramirez had his own brand of pictorial space, established by rhythmic systems of parallel lines, both curved and straight, whose mesmerizing expansions and contractions simultaneously cosset and isolate his figures. This show should render null and void the distinction between insider and outsider art. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)* ASIA SOCIETY: GLASS, GILDING, AND GRAND DESIGN: ART OF SASANIAN IRAN (224-642 A.D.), through May 20. With some 70 examples of silver, glass and silk textile fragments, many from European museums, this is first major exhibition of its kind in this part of the world for more than 30 years. For about four centuries, the Sasanians ruled territory stretching from present-day Iran and Iraq to North Africa. Their only rivals were Rome, Byzantium and, at the very end, the early Islamic dynasties. Much of their surviving art is a sterling example of empire in action. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org.(Holland Cotter) FRICK COLLECTION: 'GEORGE STUBBS (1724-1806): A CELEBRATION,' through May 27. One of the finest horse painters ever, Stubbs knew his subjects from head to hoof and skin to bones. He's best known for his views of aristocratic race horses, but he painted other mammals too: dogs, lions, tigers, oxen, monkeys and humans. This intimate show of 17 Stubbs paintings from English collections reveals his admirable range, although the people he portrayed in two large, late canvases, elegiac celebrations of farm workers, have the stiffness of figures on a candy box. His horses are his true monuments. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Grace Glueck)GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'FAMILY PICTURES,' through April 16. The museum's news release extends the exhibition's exploration into ''representation of families and children in contemporary art and video.'' Images of children, you quickly realize, can operate as a completely different genre. Rineke Dijkstra's ''Beach Portraits'' of adolescents posing awkwardly against stark seascape horizons are isolated (and isolating) images of children on the threshold of adulthood. You don't think about family when gazing at these photographs. Sally Mann is perhaps the best-known contemporary photographer of children, specifically her own. Ms. Mann, represented here by black-and-white photographs from the late 1980s and early 1990s of her ethereally gorgeous children, has been accused of everything from neglect to child abuse. The questions raised by her dual role as artist and mother, simultaneous protector and potential exploiter of the family, remain vitally interesting. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Martha Schwendener) INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON'S SCRAPBOOK: PHOTOGRAPHS, 1932-46,' through April 29. Arrived by way of the Fondation Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris, this show has more than 300 of the prints the photographer glued into an album and toted to New York for curators at the Museum of Modern Art to cull. Captured by the Nazis, he had been presumed dead when the Modern planned his retrospective. Then he turned up alive -- the ''posthumous'' exhibition opened, with him in attendance, in 1947. The current exhibition reconstructs as best as possible the layout of the scrapbook. It surveys the revolutionary work he shot in Spain, Italy, Mexico, Britain and France. His taste for uncanny detail linked him to Surrealism and Surrealist wit, but unlike many Surrealists, he remained committed to human values. Boys mug at his camera. Prostitutes swan. Their gazes equalize them with us. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Michael Kimmelman)INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'MARTIN MUNKACSI: THINK WHILE YOU SHOOT!' through April 29. Munkacsi, who inspired Cartier-Bresson, was, by contrast, self-taught, a creature of his own devising. This is the most complete retrospective, with a thick catalog (not too well researched) and dozens of vintage prints from the 1920s through the early '60s. He favored scenes of daily life, absorbing avant-garde ideas about odd angles and abstract compositions. In 1928 he moved to Berlin and traveled the world on assignment to Brazil, Algeria and Egypt. Munkacsi was a stylist, and he made catchy images the only way he knew how, in a modernist mode, which, being an opportunistic form, could serve any master. (See above.) (Kimmelman)* THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer, and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Glueck) MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ARTISTIC COLLABORATIONS: 50 YEARS OF UNIVERSAL LIMITED ART EDITIONS,' through May 21. This exhibition marks the half-century milestone for Universal Limited Art Editions in West Islip, N.Y., and its association with the Museum of Modern Art: The museum has acquired one print from every edition made at Universal, more than 1,200 works by nearly 50 artists. Prints by 12 artists are in this show. Among them are lithographs by Jasper Johns, with his signature maps and flags. Robert Rauschenberg is represented primarily by lithographs from the 1960s that combine found images of figures like John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson with the freehand scrawling associated with Abstract Expressionism. It's hard to fault an exhibition that features prints by masters like Mr. Johns and Mr. Rauschenberg. But given the somewhat precarious position of prints in the contemporary art world, the inclusion of younger artists would make a good argument that traditional printmaking is still relevant and holds possibilities for this generation. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)MOMA: 'COMIC ABSTRACTION: IMAGE-BREAKING, IMAGE-MAKING,' through June 11. This unimaginative and uniformed treatment of a big idea -- the healthy and essential contamination of Modernist abstraction by popular culture -- should be seen if only because it is such a dispiriting symptom of the Modern's paralysis where contemporary art is concerned. Including 30 works by 13 artists from the last 16 years, it alternates between the literal and the arbitrary and favors sincere political intent over genuine artistic quality. Although it promises work that addresses ''perplexing questions,'' nearly everything here is perfectly pleasant and innocuous. The exceptions are provided by Gary Simmons, Ellen Gallagher and Sue Williams. (See above.) (Smith)* MOMA: 'JEFF WALL,' through May 14. This majestic show makes a great case for Mr. Wall as the most complete, if traditional, of the untraditional artists who emerged from the turmoil of Conceptual Art. His often immense color transparencies are enthralling visual vehicles, intent on giving pleasure while making a point or two about society, art, history, visual perception, the human animal or all of the above. An imposing blend of painting, street photography and movies, they blur reality and artifice, narrative and form, detail and the big statement. You can't stop looking at them. (See above.) (Smith)* NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: HIGH TIMES, HARD TIMES: NEW YORK PAINTING, 1967-1975, through April 22. Organized under the auspices of International Curators Incorporated, this exhibition is the first to tackle a neglected subject: New York painting during the period it was supposed to be dead. The show's 42 works by 37 artists reveal that, far from dead, painting was in fact in an uproar that was commensurate with the artistic, social and political turbulence of the times. The alternation between artists who remained loyal to stretched canvas and those who abandoned it, which makes for clear installation, also tidies up history. The main problem is that the exhibition sticks too purposefully to the margins. Too much of this work is as derivative now as it was then, and functions more as artifact than art. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Smith)WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'GORDON MATTA-CLARK RETROSPECTIVE,' through June 3. I have no doubt that Matta-Clark is now being turned into a hot commercial commodity, but at least at the Whitney you can see what he aspired to be. He came up with various wonderfully harebrained ideas. Literally, in one case: after letting his hair grow for a year, he cut it off as a kind of performance and phrenological gag. The preserved hair, dutifully tagged piece by piece, opens the show like a holy relic. At the center of the exhibition is ''Splitting.'' To a plain single-family suburban frame house in Englewood, N.J., he made a cut straight down the middle, bisecting the building, then severing the four corners of the roof. The retrospective consists of films, drawings, photographs and some of the architectural pieces he cut out of buildings. The big message was: Life as art, and art as life, a philosophy dependent on our being properly attuned and keen to the moment. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Kimmelman)* WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'LORNA SIMPSON,' through May 6. This tight, refined and impassioned survey covers more than 20 years of Lorna Simpson's career, from her photo-and-text meditations on race and sexism in the 1980s, to her more recent short films, which unite American history and personal history in forceful and lyrical ways. It would be easy to put some of this work on a shelf as ''identity art,'' but with an African-American woman holding one of the highest offices in the United States government, an African-American man running for president, and the nation embroiled in what some people view as an ethnic war, this art is entirely of the moment. (See above.) (Cotter)Galleries: Chelsea* 'WHAT F WORD?' The ''F word'' in question in this group is feminism, though others come under its purview. The work spans decades, from an apt updating of a Flemish madonna and child by the estimable and too-long-overlooked Anita Steckel, to very recent art by Dana Frankfort, Jane Hammond and Shay Nowick. In a brand-new piece, Elaine Reichek brings Ezra Pound into the picture; Ulrike Muller pays tribute to Mina Loy. Patricia Cronin contributes an image of a tomb sculpture she designed, depicting herself and her lover, the artist Deborah Kass (also in the show) embracing on a bed. The sculpture is installed on a plot the two women own in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, where it is intended to remain forever. Cynthia Broan Gallery, 546 West 29th Street, (212) 760-0809, cynthiabroan.com; through March 17. (Cotter)Last ChanceGILLIAN CARNEGIE In this British painter's second New York gallery show, surface brittleness and Conceptual dallying have decreased, which is good. Her subjects include landscape, still life, her own behind; Mondrian, monochromes and English painting are evoked. If less self-consciousness would be welcome, there is still enough to look at. Andrea Rosen Gallery, 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)* JOE FYFE: PAINTINGS 2004-2007 Made with acrylic, crayon and sundry appliqued fabrics on rough-grained burlap, these weirdly tactile, quietly opulent paintings evoke the history of Modernist painting with wit and homey craft. Motifs familiar from the art of Barnett Newman, Paul Feeley and Robert Motherwell, as well as more generic riffs, seem weirdly magnified, even brutal. The sharper palette of Color Field and the formal reticence of Minimalism are deployed. Like the more fashionable painter Sergei Jensen, Mr. Fyfe makes the argument that there is more than one way to be pictorial, but with greater deliberation and visual rewards. The problem is that beyond their engaging physicality and intelligence, these works often stay too close to their sources, which makes them feel cautious. J G Contemporary, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 535-5767, jamesgrahamandsons.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)* ROBERT MANGOLD: COLUMN STRUCTURE PAINTINGS A beautiful (sky-lighted) show from one of painting's most dedicated Minimalists, this group of 12 tall canvases continues his basic vocabulary of shaped canvases, monochromatic palette and spare lines (both ruled and freehand). They take the measure of themselves in ways that seem utterly simple and transparent. Yet they hover tantalizingly between puzzles and mysteries. Pace Wildenstein, 545 West 22nd Street, (212) 989-4258, Chelsea, pacewildenstein.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)BOYD RICE Musician, writer, artist and all-purpose prankster, Boyd Rice was a big deal in the 1970s in Los Angeles, where he recorded industrial noise music under the name Non and produced all-black Color Field paintings. The abstract paintings in his first New York solo show, made from sprayed enamel and rust, feel somewhat demure, considering their live-wire source, though their looping, wavelike forms do suggest turbulence. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, second floor, Chelsea, (212) 242-6242; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)* RICHARD STANKIEWICZ If you don't know the junk sculpture of Richard Stankiewicz (1922-1983), are puzzled by his staunch if insufficient reputation or just want a visual thrill, see this show of four excellent pieces from the 1950s and early '60s, standing sentinel-like in the gallery. They are resplendent in their evocations of the industrial, the tribal, the figurative and the abstract. Zabriskie Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 752-1223, zabriskiegallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A dance entry in the Listings pages of Weekend yesterday about Philippe Decoufle, at the Joyce Theater, omitted two performances. He has shows at 2 and 7:30 p.m. tomorrow, in addition to 8 tonight.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Philippe Decoufle performs ''Solo: Le Doute M'Habite'' (''The Doubt Within Me'') at the Joyce Theater. Page 24. (Photo by Arnold Groeschel)
POP -- Damon Albarn of Blur, above, has a show with his other band, the Good, the Bad and the Queen, next week at Webster Hall. Page 22. (Photo by Jim Dyson/Getty Images)
 MOVIES -- Robert Downey Jr., below left, as a reporter, and Jake Gyllenhaal as a cartoonist in David Fincher's film ''Zodiac.'' Page 22. (Photo by Merrick Morton/Paramount Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MURDER (74%); HISTORY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); THEATER (58%); WRITERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JAKE GYLLENHAAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



185 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A Club Where a Paltry Billion Barely Covers the Entry Fee

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
With $14.46 in our pockets and noses pressed against the glass, we managed yesterday to catch a glimpse of the richest people on the planet and, quite possibly, in the galaxy.
 Forbes magazine welcomed 60 scribblers and microphone holders to its headquarters in Greenwich Village, ushering them into a room with wallpaper the color of money to share glad tidings: The world has more billionaires than ever. Not only that, but the largest concentration of them is to be found right here in New York City.
For two decades, Forbes has kept track of the fantabulously wealthy, a public service that spares us an onerous chore and frees us for loftier questions of the day, like how is it that Marvel Entertainment could bump off Captain America. 
 Yesterday, the wraps came off the 2007 list, to reveal that 946 billionaires share the earth with the rest of us. That figure is up sharply, by 153, from last year. Yes, Bill Gates is No. 1 again, with a net worth of $56 billion. And yes, he is followed by Warren E. Buffett, not far behind with his $52 billion. (In that stratosphere, a difference of $4 billion is a mere bag of shells.)
 As ever in the real-life version of Chutes and Ladders, some people lost slots they once had on the list, banished to a netherworld where the damned are worth merely hundreds of millions of dollars. Fortunately, 178 freshly minted billionaires took their place to produce this year's bumper crop. In all, the blessed 946 were said to be worth $3.5 trillion, a one-year increase of 35 percent.
 This accretion of wealth delighted Steve Forbes, the magazine's boss, who did not qualify for his own list, though his circumstances are surely not shabby. ''This is the richest year ever in human history,'' he said with a decided bounce to his voice.
 ''Despite all of the turmoil in the world, despite all of the conflict in the world,'' the global economy is booming, Mr. Forbes said.
 Even with only $14.46 in our pockets and noses pressed against the glass, we shared the thrill. No need to point out the enormous, widening gap that exists between those of great means and those for whom life is just mean. Why be churlish and mention that a day earlier the Coalition for the Homeless reported that the number of homeless families in this city reached 9,287, a record high?
 Instead, we felt the joy of living in a city that outdistances all others when it comes to billionaires. Of the 415 Americans on the Forbes list, New York can claim 50, with a total net worth put at nearly $157 billion. At the top of heap is the investor Carl C. Icahn, with $13 billion.
 By that standard, our most famous billionaire, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, is a laggard. He has only $5.5 billion, poor fellow. While his net worth rose by $400 million from 2006, Mr. Bloomberg slipped in the world rankings, to 142nd place from 112th.
 But then, $1 billion isn't all that it is cracked up to be. 
 It falls a tad short of being able to keep New York City's government going for even a week. The federal government runs through $1 billion about every three hours. When New York State lawmakers learned last week that they had nearly $1 billion more to play with than previously thought, many of them wasted no time dreaming up ways to spend it, as if it were chump change.
 STILL, not everyone is about to shrug off $1 billion so cavalierly. That is true of many who made the gilded list, said Matthew Miller, an associate editor at Forbes.
 There is a ''tremendous, tremendous'' amount of billion-dollar envy among them, he said. No need to name names. But one fellow with the initials Donald Trump is famous for taking umbrage when he feels that his net worth -- $2.9 billion, according to Forbes, putting him in a tie for 314th place -- is undervalued.
 Mr. Trump is hardly alone in this regard. ''There's a constant fight for rank and prestige,'' Mr. Miller said. ''All these guys probably never admit it, but all of them care. This is the measuring stick of the masters of the universe.''
 Sounds plausible.
 All this was certainly a far cry from H. L. Mencken's observation long ago that ''the chief value of money lies in the fact that one lives in a world in which it is overestimated.'' With $14.46 in our pockets and noses pressed against the glass, we were willing to bet that not one of those masters of the universe would buy that line for a second.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (94%); HOMELESSNESS (84%); FAMILY (65%) Millionaires and Billionaires; Homeless Persons

ORGANIZATION: Forbes (Magazine); Coalition for the Homeless

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (64%); BILL GATES (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%) Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



186 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; SAN FRANCISCO JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: A Youth Ministry Some Call Antigay Tests Tolerance

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 8 

 BODY:
It is the type of event that cities usually salivate over: more than 20,000 teenagers, all with a keen interest in pop culture, plenty of chaperones, and, of course, pockets full of disposable income. 
 But when the group in question is a Christian ministry from Texas that condemns homosexuality, and the place is San Francisco, often referred to as ''the gayest city in America,'' the civic welcome wagon collapses pretty quickly.
 A two-day event called BattleCry starts Friday at AT&T Park, the downtown baseball stadium. Organizers say the gathering, which includes performances by Christian rock bands and inspirational speakers, is a way for young Christians to speak out against what they view as destructive cultural elements, including sex on television, obscene music and violent video games. 
 ''This culture is really hammering this generation,'' said Ron Luce, the founder of Teen Mania, the Texas-based ministry that sponsors and promotes BattleCry. ''Whether it's being accosted with horrible sexually suggestive messages or the garbage in the video game world, corporate America is raping and pillaging American teenagers. And everyone is just walking by.''
 But several prominent San Francisco political leaders say Mr. Luce's group is the one doing the damage, using its young members as a conduit for a message of intolerance. 
 ''They are being fed, spoon-fed, hate,'' said Tom Ammiano, a member of the city's Board of Supervisors, who is gay. ''And it is incumbent on any group receiving that hate, particularly gay people, to speak out.''
 Aaron Peskin, the board's president, called BattleCry ''reckless and irresponsible.'' 
 ''We need to increase understanding of our human differences, not teach our kids to be suspicious and hateful towards people unlike them,'' Mr. Peskin said in a statement.
 It is not the first time that BattleCry has gotten the cold shoulder from San Franciscans. The group held a concert here last year, an event that was greeted by a resolution from the Board of Supervisors calling BattleCry a ''right-wing Christian fundamentalist group'' trying ''to negatively influence the politics of America's most tolerant and progressive city.'' 
 BattleCry officials complain that the city has made their lives difficult by imposing noise restrictions on a planned Saturday-morning celebration. City officials said the restrictions came after numerous complaints about last year's event. 
 The dispute may come to a head on Friday afternoon when hundreds of Christian teenagers are expected to congregate on the steps of City Hall to pray and ''raise their voices on behalf of their generation,'' organizers said. A group opposing BattleCry plans to protest alongside. 
 Opponents have said that the rhetoric used onstage during these events is overtly antigay and subtly militaristic. Ben Rosen, a San Francisco organizer with World Can't Wait, which is leading the protests, said his group was trying to repudiate what it sees as the deeper goals of BattleCry, including ''imposing their biblical fundamentalist worldview on the country.'' 
 That said, Mr. Rosen said protesters recognized that they were dealing with a delicate balance of expressing their opinions without appearing to be intolerant themselves.
 ''We're not out to yell at kids that believe in Jesus; that's awful,'' he said. ''It would be great,'' he said of BattleCry, ''if it didn't have this very serious, very pernicious backbone to it.''
 Tasha White, 18, attended the event last year and said it had opened her eyes to ''a culture leading us into brokenness.'' 
 ''You look at Britney Spears, and what she did and that leads to divorce and rehab and drugs, and that's a negative influence,'' said Ms. White, who lives in nearby San Bruno and said she had had problems with under-age drinking herself. ''And that's not something I believe our generation should be looking forward to.''
 Ms. White added that she did not think there was anything antigay about the event, though she believes gay people are ''misguided.'' 
 Mr. Luce echoed that sentiment, saying his group loves gay people, but does firmly believe their sexuality is sinful. 
 ''We see homosexuality like a lot of other things that do harm to us, like lying, or cheating, or stealing,'' he said, adding that he said he had seen studies suggesting that many gay people are depressed or unhappy. ''And it's not very loving to leave them in that state and not show them another way.'' 
 With high-profile evangelical supporters like the Rev. Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, BattleCry is just one part of Mr. Luce's campaign to energize young Christians, who many leaders worry are leaving the church. In addition to San Francisco, BattleCry events are planned this spring in Baltimore and Detroit, with dozens of smaller ''Acquire the Fire'' events in other cities featuring Christian music and speakers.
 Mr. Luce said he had never had this kind of reaction in other cities, and said his group, which is a nonprofit organization, had decided to hold the event in San Francisco because that city could handle an event with an estimated 25,000 attendees. Admission is $45 to $99, which Mr. Luce says helps deflect costs. 
 Joe D'Alessandro, the president of the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau, a private nonprofit group, said the two-day event was too small to have a significant impact on the local economy, but he said its organizers should be allowed to hold BattleCry nonetheless.
 ''I think we have to practice tolerance, whether or not they practice tolerance,'' Mr. D'Alessandro said. ''I'm gay myself, and I find their beliefs very offensive. But they have a right to come to our city.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tasha White, right, and other teenagers rehearsed yesterday in San Francisco for BattleCry, a Christian rally that begins today. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); CITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); POLITICS (71%); BASEBALL (70%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (69%); RIOTS (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); NOISE POLLUTION (60%) Homosexuality; Children and Youth; Demonstrations and Riots; Christians and Christianity; Discrimination

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif); Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



187 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Brazilian Politician Indicted in New York in Kickback Scheme

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS and LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
In a somewhat bizarre entry into foreign affairs by the Manhattan district attorney's office, prosecutors in New York City announced yesterday the indictment of Paulo Maluf, a major political figure in Brazil, in a construction kickback scheme at the expense of Brazilian taxpayers.
 The New York prosecutors accused Mr. Maluf, the former mayor of Sao Paulo and currently the leader of a rightist party in Brazil's Congress, of taking part in a scheme to submit inflated and false invoices to contractors involved in building Avenida Agua Espraiada, a giant highway in Sao Paulo. 
Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, said that after the inflated invoices were paid by the municipal agency supervising the highway project, the contractors generated kickbacks to Mr. Maluf, his son, Flavio Maluf, and others.
 Some of the money was moved to a New York bank account and then to other locations, including Jersey, one of British Channel Islands, Mr. Morgenthau said. 
 The indictment accuses Mr. Maluf and four co-conspirators of stealing more than $11.6 million, the amount that prosecutors said could be directly traced to the kickback scheme. But Mr. Morgenthau said that Mr. Maluf was believed to have stolen more, and that bank records showed that from November 1997 to May 1999, $140 million passed through an account secretly controlled by Mr. Maluf at Safra National Bank in New York. 
 He said the account had been opened by Vivaldo Alves, identified by prosecutors as a black-market money transmitter, and maintained under the code name ''Chanani.''
 Ultimately, he said, some of the money in the Jersey accounts was repatriated to Brazil and the Malufs through the black market. 
 ''This case represents corruption and greed on a colossal scale,'' the district attorney said at a news conference in his Manhattan office. ''We're not going to be Grand Cayman on the Hudson.'' 
 A statement issued yesterday by Mr. Maluf's press office in Brazil said he would welcome a trial in the United States because it would ''finally permit Paulo Maluf to defend himself and prove he is innocent of the accusations made against him.'' 
 ''Paulo Maluf does not have and never had a bank account in New York,'' his statement continued. ''All of the false accusations made against Paulo Maluf have never been proven and are the fruit of political persecution.''
 The indictment of Mr. Maluf, who is 75, on corruption charges in the United States will surprise Brazilians only for its timing. Mr. Maluf has been investigated and indicted numerous times on corruption charges in Sao Paulo. 
 In 2005 he spent 40 days in jail while awaiting trial on accusations of racketeering, tax evasion and money laundering, winning release because a provision in Brazilian law allows people older than 70 to answer to charges at home. 
 Many Brazilians are critical of their own justice system, which they see as permeated by corruption and politics. And because of skepticism about the concept of separation of powers, the indictment in New York, even though it comes from a Democrat with no connection to the Bush administration, is likely to be seen by many Brazilians as an expression of the American government's support for President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva -- a gift on the very night that Mr. Bush landed in Sao Paulo for meetings with him. 
 Putting Mr. Maluf on trial in New York may be difficult, though. Mr. Morgenthau said that the United States did not have an extradition treaty with Brazil covering Brazilian citizens, but that his office would seek to arrest Mr. Maluf if he left Brazil. ''That leaves him a prisoner in Brazil,'' Daniel Castleman, Mr. Morgenthau's chief of investigations, said yesterday.
 The indictment accuses Mr. Maluf of using some of the stolen money to pay personal expenses in Brazil and the United States, including the purchase of jeweled antique eyeglasses and watches at Sotheby's and Christie's auction houses in New York, as well as campaign expenses. 
 The other defendants are Flavio Maluf; Simeao Damasceno de Liveira, the finance director of a Brazilian construction company involved in the scheme; Joel Guedes Fernandes, a cashier at the construction company; and Mr. Alves.
 The indictment charges them with running the kickback scheme while Mr. Maluf was mayor in the mid-1990s, and afterward, when a successor handpicked by Mr. Maluf was in office, with the help of friends and allies in the municipal government. 
 Mr. Castleman said that about $26 million had been frozen by the authorities in Jersey and that the authorities in Brazil and New York were trying to have it returned to Brazil.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paulo Maluf in 2004, when he tried to regain the Sao Paulo mayoralty. (Photo by Paulo Whitaker/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); INDICTMENTS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); MAYORS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) Bribery; Frauds and Swindling; Money Laundering

COMPANY: SAFRA NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: Paulo Maluf; Anemona Hartocollis; Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JERSEY (87%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (78%) Brazil; Sao Paulo (Brazil); New York City; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



188 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Violent Crime in Cities Shows Sharp Surge, Reversing Trend

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Violent crime rose by double-digit percentages in cities across the country over the last two years, reversing the declines of the mid-to-late 1990s, according to a new report by a prominent national law enforcement association.
 While overall crime has been declining nationwide, police officials have been warning of a rise in murder, robbery and gun assaults since late 2005, particularly in midsize cities and the Midwest. Now, they say, two years of data indicates that the spike is more than an aberration. 
''There are pockets of crime in this country that are astounding,'' said Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, which is releasing the report on Friday. ''It's gone under the radar screen, but it's not if you're living on the north side of Minneapolis or the south side of Los Angeles or in Dorchester, Mass.''
 Local police departments blame several factors: the spread of methamphetamine use in some Midwestern and Western cities, gangs, high poverty and a record number of people being released from prison. But the biggest theme, they say, is easy access to guns and a willingness, even an eagerness, to settle disputes with them, particularly among young people.
 ''There's a mentality among some people that they're living some really violent video game,'' said Chris Magnus, the police chief in Richmond, Calif., north of San Francisco, where homicides rose 20 percent and gun assaults 65 percent from 2004 to 2006. ''What's disturbing is that you see that the blood's real, the death's real.''
 The research forum surveyed 56 cities and sheriffs' departments -- as small as Appleton Wis., about 100 miles northwest of Milwaukee, and as large as Chicago and Houston. Over all, from 2004 to 2006, homicides increased 10 percent and robberies 12 percent. 
 Aggravated assault, which is usually accompanied by the use of a weapon or by a means likely to produce severe injury or death, according to an F.B.I. Web site, increased at a relatively modest 3 percent, but aggravated assaults with guns rose 10 percent. And some cities saw far higher spikes. 
 Homicides increased 20 percent or more in cities including Boston, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Hartford, Memphis and Orlando, Fla. Robberies went up more than 30 percent in places including Detroit, Fort Wayne, Ind., and Milwaukee. Aggravated assaults with guns were up more than 30 percent in cities like Boston, Sacramento, St. Louis and Rochester.
 Seventy-one percent of the cities surveyed had an increase in homicides, 80 percent had an increase in robberies, and 67 percent reported an increase in aggravated assaults with guns. 
 This study relies on numbers from cities, rather than yearly F.B.I. totals, which are typically released in the fall. The group collected similar numbers last year, and those numbers were largely borne out by the data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 Police chiefs say the trends in aggravated assaults are particularly alarming. They are often considered a better gauge of violence than homicides; the difference between the two is often poor marksmanship or good medical care.
 ''Had we not had some of the trauma rooms we have here in Rochester, our homicide numbers would be higher,'' said Mayor Robert Duffy, who served as a police chief for seven years, before becoming mayor two years ago. 
 While murder rates hit 11-year highs in places like Boston, police officials note that they are not seeing the highs of the late 1980s and early 1990s, when crack cocaine fueled spikes in homicides, particularly in large cities. Some cities like Denver and Washington had declines in homicides. 
 Still, the overall trend is mirrored in other places not covered by the report. New York City, for example, which had enjoyed remarkable declines and seemed immune to the rising murder rate elsewhere in 2005, reported a 10 percent increase in homicides in 2006. In Chicago, which had been cited as another model of declining violence, homicides rose 4 percent from 2004 to 2006.
 Police officials say the violence tends to happen among young men in their late teens and early to mid-20s. In some cases, it is random. But in many cases, it is among people who know one another, or between gangs, as a way to settle disputes. Arguments that 20 years ago would have led to fistfights, police chiefs say, now lead to guns.
 ''There's really no rhyme or reason with these homicides,'' said Edward Davis, the police commissioner in Boston. ''An incident will occur involving disrespect, a fight over a girl. Then there's a retaliation aspect where if someone shoots someone else; their friends will come back and shoot at the people that did it.'' 
 In Richmond, Chief Magnus said he would often go to the scene of a crime and discover that 30 to 75 rounds had been fired. ''It speaks to the level of anger, the indiscriminate nature of the violence,'' he said. 
 ''I go to meetings, and you start talking to some of the people in the neighborhoods about who's been a victim of violence, and people can start reciting: 'One of my sons was killed, one of my nephews,' '' he said. ''It's hard to find people who haven't been touched by this kind of violence.''
 Many chiefs blame the federal government for cutting back on police programs that they say helped reduce crime in the 1990s. But they also say the problem is economic and social. ''We seem to be dealing with an awful lot of people who have zero conflict-resolution skills,'' Chief Magnus said. 
 In Rochester, Mr. Duffy said his city had the state's highest dropout rate -- half of all students drop out-- and the highest child poverty rate, with 40 percent of children under 18 living below poverty level. 
 ''There's a direct correlation between the kids who drop out of our high schools who get involved in selling drugs and who end up in homicides,'' Mr. Duffy said. 
 As a police chief, Mr. Duffy brought in programs that had reduced crime in other cities: a project cease-fire to end gun violence, a Compstat data collection program to identify the areas of most stubborn crime. But it has not helped.
 ''We're doing all the right things consistently, but we have not seen relief,'' he said. ''It takes much more than law enforcement.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Urban Violence on the Rise''Crime data collected by the Police Executive Research Forum shows a recent increase in violent crime in many of the 56 police agencies for which data was collected.Graph shows the yearly murder rate per 100,000 people, 2004-6 for: Detroit Richmond, Calif.WashingtonCincinnati Orlando, Fla.Memphis Houston Chicago Boston(Sources byPolice Executive Research Forum
 Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); VIOLENT CRIME (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (79%); MURDER (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); METHAMPHETAMINE (52%) Crime and Criminals; Murders and Attempted Murders; Assaults; Urban Areas

ORGANIZATION: POLICE EXECUTIVE RESEARCH FORUM (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Police Executive Research Forum 

PERSON: Kate Zernike

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



189 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: China to Open Fund to Invest Currency Reserves

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID BARBOZA; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing, and David Barboza from Shanghai.

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 9 

 BODY:
China will create a new agency to invest the country's immense reserves of foreign currency, now totaling more than $1 trillion, the country's finance minister announced today.
 The minister, Jin Renqing, offered no specifics about how much of China's currency reserves would be under the new agency's control. But whatever the precise figure, analysts say that the agency is certain to begin life as one of the world's biggest investment funds.
China's currency holdings are already the world's largest, and they are growing rapidly because of China's huge trade surpluses. Most of the reserves are now invested very conservatively, in United States Treasury bonds and other government securities, a strategy that helps to keep interest rates low in the United States and other developed countries but earns little profit for China. 
 The new agency will be able to invest some of the money more diversely and aggressively, analysts said, with the possibility of hundreds of billions of dollars put into acquiring ''strategic assets'' -- mines, oil fields, whole companies -- around world, especially in developing countries in Africa and Latin America.
 ''They're not going to be looking for financial assets, but energy assets and natural resources, minerals, things China desperately needs,'' said Jing Ulrich, an analyst at J.P. Morgan.
 The government said that the new agency would be modeled in part on Temasek Holdings, the Singapore government's hugely successful investment agency, which manages an $84 billion global portfolio of investments.
 Like most countries, China's huge foreign exchange reserves are largely kept as insurance, in case of a financial panic or swift reversal of fortune for the economy.
 The reserves are now held by the Chinese central bank, and most of the reserves are expected to remain there, in safe, conservative investments in government securities. But the new agency is expected to get a substantial portion to work with. 
 Some financial experts are already talking about the huge impact China could have as a major global investor, and the possibility that its purchases could push asset prices higher and create even more competition for scarce commodities and resources.
 But Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said that the new investment agency would not be allowed to simply speculate.
 ''The biggest priority is safety, and under the principle of security, we will try to increase the efficiency of management and the investments' returns,'' Mr. Jin said at a news conference this morning, held as part of a two-week meeting of the National People's Congress, China's largely ceremonial national legislature.
 The decision to form the new agency has been rumored for months, and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in January that the government was exploring new ideas about investing the currency reserves.
 Andy Rothman, a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said the government was likely to proceed cautiously and give the agency only a relatively small part of the reserves to work with at first, perhaps $20 billion. ''It's not going all of a sudden going to change the world,'' Mr. Rothman said. ''I think they are going to move very, very slowly in diversify what they are doing. Nobody should expect that suddenly they are going to invest $1 trillion.''
 Some analysts say the formation of the new agency means China is moving away from heavy reliance on investing in United States dollars through Treasury securities, and that could affect American interest rates, which remain low in part because of China's huge bond purchases.
 But the country's foreign exchange reserves are accumulating so quickly -- by more than $20 billion a month, analysts say -- that China is likely to continue buying huge numbers of Treasury bonds for a long time to come even if the new agency gets a fast start..
 The immense foreign exchange holdings are just one of many signs of China's spectacular rise, and its growing influence in the global economy and financial markets.
 And with that growth have come rising costs at home for education, health care and pensions. Earning more on government holdings, analysts say, will allow the government to better cope with some of these problems.
 Mr. Rothman said the decision to set up the new investment agency should be seen in the context of other new government measures, like the recent efforts to enact a private property law and another new law to equalize corporate taxes. He said China is trying to create the legal and regulatory structure to underpin its still-evolving market economy.
 Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said the new agency would answer directly to the State Council, the equivalent of China's cabinet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: China's finance minister, Jin Renqing, announcing a new agency Friday at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BONDS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%); INTEREST RATES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007



190 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: Output Falling in Oil-Rich Mexico, and Politics Gets the Blame

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 8 

 BODY:
The KU-S oil production platform off the coast of Ciudad del Carmen, with its 10,000-ton tangle of yellow and red tanks and pipes, would seem the natural product of three years of soaring energy prices. The newly installed platform certainly is the face that Mexico's state oil monopoly, Pemex, would like to show off. 
 But Pemex is in trouble. Its production and proven reserves are falling, and it has no money to reverse the slide. Mexico is the second-largest supplier of imported oil to the United States, after Canada, but its total exports are slipping. If the company continues on its current course, Mexico may one day have trouble just keeping up with rising demand at home.
The evidence of its predicament is clear not far from the KU-S platform. On the horizon, some 50 to 60 miles into the southern Gulf of Mexico, aging rigs billow flames and black smoke over the waters as they burn off the natural gas they are unable to process. 
 The major reason that Pemex's prospects are so poor, energy experts agree, is government interference. The Mexican government, which expropriated the oil industry in 1938, depends on Pemex to finance its budget. Last year, sales at Pemex (its full name is Petroleos Mexicanos) reached $97 billion. But $79 billion of that went to the government, Pemex's chief, Jesus Reyes Heroles, said last month. That accounted for almost 40 percent of the federal budget.
 Government interference is only part of the story. Pemex has been hamstrung by years of short-sighted management aimed at extracting the most cash for the government treasury -- Mexico's president and Congress must approve the company's budget, its output, investments and exports each year. By law, Pemex is closed to any outside investment, shutting it off from private capital and expertise. 
 In addition, Pemex has not reinvested enough for decades and, because it faces no competition at home, has lagged behind many of the industry's technical advances. Its labor union has locked it into rigid work rules and siphoned off hundreds of millions of dollars for unexplained benefits. And that does not even touch on the widespread corruption and waste.
 ''Inside Pemex, I think they have creative solutions,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy analyst at the James A. Baker III Institute at Rice University. ''They know what they want to do. How do you get that solved within the politics of Mexico?''
 President Bush is scheduled to visit Mexico Monday and Tuesday, and oil is likely to be on the agenda. In comments to Latin American reporters this week, Mr. Bush mused that Mexico's president, Felipe Calderon, should consider private capital to expand Pemex production. The comments ruffled Mexican sensitivities over national sovereignty of its oil resources. 
 Over the last five years, Pemex has spent about $50 billion, mostly borrowed, to pump more and more oil and gas. ''It should have spent much more on exploration so that it wouldn't be in the situation it is in today,'' said Adrian Lajous, who led Pemex in the 1990s. ''It was a drive to generate short-term revenue for the government.'' 
 For all that spending, said George Baker, a Houston analyst who publishes a newsletter covering the Mexican oil industry, Pemex did not get much. ''In the end, the results were very weak. You didn't build a new refinery. You didn't find more oil.''
 Mexico, the fifth-largest oil producer in the world in 2005, is sitting on tens of billions of barrels of untapped oil reserves. But much of that is in the deep waters of the gulf, not far from where American companies have announced discoveries. Pemex has neither the money nor the expertise to get at the oil. 
 Its biggest field, Cantarell, in the shallow waters of the gulf, is one of the world's richest. That field used to account for about 60 percent of Mexico's oil production, but has gone into a sharp decline. Production at Cantarell fell 13.5 percent last year, and it will fall another 15 percent this year, Mr. Reyes Heroles said recently. 
 The decline at Cantarell pushed Pemex's output down from its peak of 3.4 million barrels a day in 2004 to 3.26 million last year.
 At the same time, Pemex's proven reserves of crude oil have fallen to 11.8 billion barrels at the end of 2005 from 15.1 billion barrels at the end of 2002. 
 Mexico's nationalist energy policy has closed off the option that most cash-starved national oil companies have used -- opening up some production to joint ventures with foreign companies. 
 Any debate about how to fix the industry quickly becomes snarled in Mexico's passionate oil politics. The official history celebrates the government's expropriation of the oil industry as a heroic act and recalls how ordinary Mexicans donated their jewelry to pay for ''their'' oil. In fact, state control of the industry is enshrined in Mexico's Constitution. 
 Even so, there is more agreement than ever before that the government has to rethink the way Pemex is run. 
 President Calderon has been vague about his government's plans three months into his presidency. His conservative National Action Party favors private investment.
 The left and Mexico's old-guard nationalists oppose private investment, arguing that it is a cover-up for creeping privatization. That suspicion seems to resonate: a broad public opinion survey last year by CIDE, a university in Mexico City, and the Mexican Council on Foreign Affairs, found that 76 percent of Mexicans oppose foreign investment in oil. 
 ''It needs to hurt like hell before you can have an intelligent discussion,'' said David Shields, a Mexico City energy analyst who has written a book about Pemex. 
 Graco Ramirez, a senator from the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution, said Mexico was already feeling the pain. Other than the sale of any part of Pemex, he said, nearly everything else is on the table ''because of the seriousness of the country's energy situation.'' 
 Shifting from the party's line, Mr. Ramirez, who is the secretary of the energy commission in Mexico's Senate, said there may be room for national oil companies -- he singled out Statoil of Norway, Petrobras of Brazil and Petroleos de Venezuela, or PDVSA -- to work with Pemex on deepwater exploration and a few other areas. 
 Mr. Calderon has mentioned two of those companies as well. In a visit to inaugurate the KU-S platform last week, the president announced the expansion of an existing technology-sharing agreement with Petrobras. Two days later, Pemex announced an emissions-reduction agreement with Statoil. 
 Political analysts warn that Mexico's fractious politics could delay serious change. Another problem is that the government would have to collect more taxes elsewhere if it took less from Pemex. ''Some reform of the laws governing Pemex's operations seem almost certain to take place in the next 18 to 24 months,'' Pamela K. Starr, an analyst at the Eurasia Group in Washington, wrote in a report released Wednesday. But, she added, ''These reforms will be limited in scope.'' 
 For now, Pemex is doing what it can alone to make up for lost time. In a beige-carpeted glass-walled research center that Pemex opened in Ciudad del Carmen six months ago, scientists and engineers study 3D images of the geological layers below the gulf's deep waters to determine where they will put exploratory wells. 
 ''I think that this is the future or at least part of the future,'' said Pemex's director of exploration and production, Carlos Morales Gil. 
 Even under the best of circumstances, though, Pemex cannot expect to see deepwater oil before 2014. 
 For now Mr. Reyes Heroles has more immediate concerns. He has said that Pemex needs to spend some $8 billion to $10 billion a year over its current investment budget of about $14 billion. 
 He doesn't have it. 
 The company's finances are too ''delicate'' to keep borrowing, he said at a news conference last month.
 It will cost about $15 billion a year just to enhance reserves and keep output of crude above three million barrels a day, he said. The company is developing new fields to help make up for the decline at Cantarell. One of those is the adjacent field of Ku-Maloob-Zaap, where the new KU-S oil platform will produce 250,000 barrels of crude a day. 
 Private analysts are cautious. ''We don't see even in the most optimistic model that they could manage to reverse the total fall in production,'' said Alejandra Leon, an analyst at Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Mexico City. 
 Outside of exploration and production, the rest of Pemex -- its refineries, its pipelines, its money-losing petrochemical plants -- have been ignored. Mexico now imports about 30 percent of its gasoline from the United States. A series of fatal accidents a couple of years ago revealed the perilous state of its pipeline network. 
 For years, the natural gas that was pumped up with the Cantarell crude was flared off because Pemex was unable to process it. ''It's like lighting dollars on fire,'' said Kenneth B. Medlock III, who is also at the Baker Center at Rice University. 
 Now Pemex is trying to make use of that natural gas and develop onshore reserves. The KU-S platform will process gas, not flare it, for example. 
 Pemex's debt has climbed to about $53 billion; its fast-growing pension liabilities have reached another $40 billion.
 Pemex's former chief executive, Luis Ramirez Corzo, estimated last November that Pemex could trim $2.5 billion from its operating costs. Labor costs for workers who had not enough work to do or none at all cost the company almost $1 billion of that, he said.
 And in a nod to the allegations of corruption at Pemex, Mr. Calderon named a new audit committee last month. 
 Mr. Lajous, who ran Pemex in the 1990s, said, ''The union is one of the key political complexities of what you have to deal with.''
 Some 100,000 of the company's 148,000 employees are members of the union, and the union has five representatives on Pemex's board. 
 The union leader in charge since 1993, Carlos Romero Deschamps, refused a request for an interview. 
 There are bright spots, though. ''Pemex people are very good,'' said a foreign oil executive who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the debate in Mexico. ''There are professionals with lots of experience.''
 Ms. Jaffe of the Baker Institute agreed. ''The problems of Pemex,'' she said, ''are not technical. The problem is political.''
 And for all its troubles, Pemex is still a great source of pride to many Mexicans. Its workers are some of the best paid in Mexico, firmly in the middle class. 
 ''It's one of the best companies in Mexico,'' said Israel Cervantes, 28, who has been working on the rigs for three years and takes home $2,200 a month. ''You can do all right by your family here.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers on the KU-S oil platform awaited the Mexican president's visit last Friday. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Mexico's president, Felipe Calderon, left, has been vague about his government's plans for Pemex, but his party favors private investment.
Heading off to work on the KU-S platform in the Gulf of Mexico. The up-to-date rig is an exception in Mexico, where oil investment is lagging. (Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Mexican Oil, American Needs''Oil production in Mexico grew sharply after the Arab oil embargo in 1973, and the country has become the second-largest oil supplier to the United States, after Canada. But production has fallen for two years in a row, and experts have raised questions about Mexico's ability to reverse the slide.Graph shows MEXICAN OIL PRODUCTION (million barrels of crude oil a day) since 1973.TOP CRUDE OIL EXPORTERS TO THE UNITED STATESMillion barrels of crude oil a day, 2006Canada: 1.782Mexico: 1.576Saudi Arabia*: 1.421Venezuela*: 1.139Nigeria*: 1.043Iraq*: 0.553Angola: 0.513Algeria*: 0.357Ecuador: 0.272Kuwait*: 0.179*OPEC member(Sources by Energy Information Administration
 Pemex)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); CORRUPTION (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Production; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Labor; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Organized Labor ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (98%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Mexico; Canada

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



191 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: A Lawyer Finds He Can Go Home Again

BYLINE: By ELLEN ROSEN

 BODY:
It's not about the money, says Harvey R. Miller, with a Zen-like calm. 
 Mr. Miller, 74, the most prominent bankruptcy lawyer in the nation, has left the investment bank Greenhill & Company to return to Weil, Gotshal & Manges, the Manhattan law firm where he practiced for 32 years.
 At Greenhill, he performed advisory work, rather than legal work. And he said in an interview yesterday that ''while I learned a lot while I was here, over the last year, I was involved in matters that had more legal aspects, which activated something inside me that said, 'I miss that practice.' '' 
 It is a practice that Mr. Miller has largely defined. Perhaps forgotten amid the wave after wave of mergers and buyouts in recent years is the other side of Wall Street's deal-making coin: the business of restructuring and salvaging companies that get into trouble. 
 Over three decades, Mr. Miller made Weil, Gotshal a powerhouse in bankruptcy law. Recall the most notable bankruptcies of the 1980s and 1990s -- Texaco, Drexel Burnham Lambert, Continental Airlines, R. H. Macy -- and Weil, Gotshal was involved. 
 That role continued in the post-Enron wave of bankruptcies, including those of WorldCom, Global Crossing and Enron itself. 
 ''There's a lot of adrenaline that runs in those situations,'' Mr. Miller said. ''And when you're successful -- although you're not always -- it's very gratifying, and more so than when you close a deal.''
 More recently, Weil, Gotshal was involved in US Airways' offer for Delta Air Lines, which is in Chapter 11, and the bankruptcy of the auto parts maker Delphi.
 Other bankruptcy and restructuring lawyers have left their law firms for investment banks. Last year, Goldman Sachs hired James H. M. Sprayregen from Kirkland & Ellis to run its nascent restructuring practice.
 But Mr. Miller came to realize that practicing law at the upper tiers can be more rewarding than working on deals. 
 ''Life should be an adventure,'' he said. ''My practice at Weil was and still is exactly that. By working on reorganizations and restructuring work in so many different businesses -- such as energy, retail, manufacturing and even satellites -- that's the glory of the practice and that's what I love about it. I've always said that about restructuring practice. It is probably the last area of the generalist.''
 While Mr. Miller was at Greenhill, other law firms had come calling to try to entice him to return to the law. But Mr. Miller said he ''had lunch every six months or so with Stephen Dannhauser,'' Weil's chairman. ''He's always posited the question if I was ready to go back. And I would quote Thomas Wolfe that 'you can't go home again,' but he said he had the right of first refusal.''
 After some discussion, the firm voted unanimously Tuesday to reinstate Mr. Miller as a partner, waiving its mandatory retirement age of 68. He will return to the same department he left, although not the same office, and will not reassume the management roles he previously held at the firm. He will also return as a contractual partner, Mr. Dannhauser said, declining to disclose the details of the agreement. 
 Mr. Miller acknowledged that his compensation would drop significantly with his leaving a booming boutique investment bank. Still, he said: ''At my age, it's not a consideration. It's more a question of happiness.''
 And, of course, he made quite a lot of money at Greenhill. He joined the firm two years before it went public in 2004. In May 2006 he held more than 287,000 shares, according to a regulatory filing. The stock has more than tripled since the firm went public. 
 Just as his return has created a stir in legal circles, so did his departure from Weil in 2002. ''I had been at Weil for 32 years and had turned over the reins of running the department to other people,'' Mr. Miller recalled. ''I felt that just as when a chairman turns over a company to new management, I'm opposed to the chairman joining the board of directors, so it would be good to put some space between me and the other partners, especially because people said I cast a big shadow.'' 
 But he does not expect to outshine those lawyers now, saying that his hiatus may have diminished that shadow.
 Once at Weil, he hopes to continue representing Greenhill as outside counsel. He said he was leaving Greenhill on good terms.
 Someone outside Greenhill, who is close to developments there and insisted on not being identified, confirmed that the departure was amicable and said: ''His departure is not expected to have any meaningful impact on the firm. M.& A. activity continues to be very strong and restructurings are at record lows. That said, the firm intends to expand its restructuring advisory capabilities in preparation for when the economic cycle turns.'' 
 In the meantime, Mr. Miller is likely at the outset to help represent General Motors in the bankruptcy case involving Delphi, a former subsidiary, said Martin J. Bienenstock, the co-head with Marcia L. Goldstein of the firm's business finance and restructuring department.
 Ms. Goldstein said: ''Harvey has been the icon of the practice. He made it a fashionable practice for a large firm to have.'' 
 Fashionable indeed.
 Mr. Miller confessed that another benefit of returning to Weil is a return to its location in the General Motors building on Fifth Avenue, ''across from Bergdorf's men's shop and close to Barneys.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvey R. Miller, who left Greenhill & Company to return to Weil, Gotshal & Manges, said the switch was not about money. (Photo by Shiho Fukada for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AIRLINES (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Legal Profession; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (96%); GREENHILL & CO INC (91%); MACY'S INC (82%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Weil Gotshal & Manges; Greenhill & Co

TICKER: GHL (NYSE) (91%); M (NYSE) (82%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (55%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (96%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (82%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

PERSON: Ellen Rosen; Harvey R Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



192 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Choosing Israel, Not the Hamptons

BYLINE: By DAVID KAUFMAN

 BODY:
AS an associate professor of clinical surgery and chief of high risk programs at New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Dr. Freya Schnabel is an unlikely international real estate pioneer. But as one of the first buyers in Eden Hills -- a planned community 15 minutes southwest of Jerusalem -- Dr. Schnabel, who is 49, is emblematic of a new breed of visitor to Israel: the foreign vacation-home buyer.
 Indeed, from downtown Tel Aviv to the heart of Jerusalem, foreigners -- especially Americans -- searching for second homes are redefining Israel's high-end real estate market. Part of Tel Aviv is, in fact, in the midst of a mini-Manhattan makeover with the recent arrival of New York-style residential projects designed by the likes of Philippe Starck and Richard Meier. Even Donald Trump has entered the Tel Aviv marketplace with plans for a 70-story residential and commercial tower -- Israel's highest -- in the suburb of Ramat Gan. 
Real estate analysts estimate that while foreigners made up less than 5 percent of total home buyers in Israel last year, they snapped up a third of the luxury properties -- roughly defined as those priced above $500 a square foot. Taking advantage of a decrease in terrorism and property prices still far below Western levels, foreigners bought over $1.2 billion in Israeli real estate in 2006, according to the Israel Central Bank, more than double the $445 million in sales just three years earlier.
 While deals like the $13 million purchase of a Tel Aviv triplex by Shari Arison, the Carnival Cruise Lines heiress, illustrate the upper end of the market, most foreign buyers are far more modest. But their desire for larger properties appears to be growing. 
 ''The Americans have shifted from buying one- to two-bedroom to four- to five-bedroom apartments over the past half decade,'' said Werner M. Loval, managing director of the Jerusalem office of Anglo-Saxon Real Estate in Jerusalem, one of Israel's largest real estate agencies. ''But they're still usually spending from about $400,000 to $1 million.''
 Davyd Tal, the Welsh-born owner of the real estate agency Jerusalem Homes, said that about 65 percent of all foreign buyers are Americans, most of whom are in their 40s and 50s. In Jerusalem, a quarter of all homes sold in 2006 went to foreigners. 
 Such statistics are credited with helping to boost average per-room prices throughout the capital by 27 percent last year -- to just over $88,000 -- even though the majority of foreigners remain concentrated in several city-center neighborhoods. These include Rehavia, the German Colony, old Katmon, Kiryat Shmuel, Mamilla and Talibeh, areas where roughly half of last year's home sales were to foreigners. 
 These areas are mostly within walking distance of major religious sites -- the Old City, the Western Wall and the Great Synagogue -- fulfilling the needs of the mostly religious Americans who are increasingly calling the neighborhoods home for at least part of the year. 
 ''They want to be here because Jerusalem is the holy city and they are prepared to pay for this privilege,'' said Yaron Tzuberi, marketing and sales director for Africa Israel, one of Israel's top residential real estate developers.
 Mr. Tzuberi notes that almost none of his American buyers live in Jerusalem full time, visiting instead during major Jewish holidays like Passover and Sukkot and perhaps for a few weeks each summer. Such buyers may eventually retire in Israel, but for now, he adds, ''the apartments are just empty the rest of the time.''
 Nonetheless, along with their personal reinforced-concrete bomb shelters, Mr. Tzuberi's clients demand amenities like parking and central air-conditioning and heating -- still premium services in much of Israel.
 Some buyers are even opting for American-style gated communities -- like the 600-unit Eden Hills -- to further cushion their landing in the Levant.
 ''I hate sounding like an ugly American,'' said Dr. Allen Josephs, a 56-year-old New Jersey neurologist and future Eden Hills resident. ''But I want my creature comforts while still being in Israel.''
 American buyers also covet the sights and sounds of Jerusalem itself. ''Views of the Old City and of the Dome of the Rock are a must,'' Mr. Tzuberi said, ''even though they can add hundreds of thousands of dollars to the cost of a home.'' 
 Properties within the walls of the Old City itself, meanwhile, are so rare that they regularly come with multimillion-dollar price tags, including one historic gem near the Western Wall that real estate agents said was shown to Madonna in 2004, though she did not buy it.
 ''IT'S a simple case of supply and demand,'' says Mr. Tal of Jerusalem Homes. ''When homes enter this market, they move fast.'' 
 Mr. Tal cited a $650,000 property in the Old City that sold within weeks. Another there was recently resold after just a year, with a markup of $450,000, to $1.45 million.
 Views of the Mediterranean -- rather than of historic sites -- are among the key selling points in Tel Aviv, Israel's second-strongest market for foreign sales. Barely 90 years old, Tel Aviv's skyline is dotted with boxy, 1950s-era apartment blocks, along with an increasing number of sleek new luxury residential towers. They're a far cry from Jerusalem's low-rise, stone-clad houses. 
 ''While Jewish, Tel Aviv buyers are almost never religious, and tend to visit far more often than their Jerusalem counterparts,'' said Mr. Tzuberi, adding that second-home buyers there are mostly American, British, Russian, French and ex-patriate Israelis looking for a part-time residence back home. 
 Spas, swimming pools, doormen and heavy security are standard offerings in Tel Aviv's newest developments, which include Mr. Starck's Yoo Tel Aviv -- twin 40-floor cylinders opening later this year -- and Mr. Meier's 30-story residential tower on posh Rothschild Avenue, which will open in 2010.
 Such perks are expensive, however. Prime homes have risen roughly 30 percent over the last year to at least $650 a square foot at benchmark projects like the Akirov Towers -- also called the Treetop Towers -- in northern Tel Aviv; the 168-unit Rova Lev Ha'ir complex in the city center; and the beachfront Opera Tower. They go up to $1,000 a square foot by the sea. 
 Ms. Arison's $13 million downtown triplex is in Project G, a 31-floor tower still on the drawing boards.
 ''We were surprised by these prices, but we actually just purchased a second, larger apartment in the same building,'' said Margaret Amouyal, who bought into Rova Lev Ha'ir three years ago and visits Tel Aviv six times a year from Brussels. 
 For many foreigners in Tel Aviv, such standards increasingly include elements of the city's Bauhaus past. Known as the White City and declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco in 2003, Tel Aviv's historic core includes 4,000 Bauhaus buildings -- the largest single concentration in the world -- many now the target of design-minded American and European second-home seekers. Designated for conservation, Bauhaus apartments usually cover entire floors and offer the feel of a private home in a city that conspicuously lacks detached housing.
 As a recent $26 million deal for five historic Tel Aviv Bauhaus buildings suggests, buying into this unique architectural heritage is not for the meek. Landmarked buildings command at least 30-percent premiums over conventional structures from the same era, according to Itzik Ben-Shoam, chief executive of White City Buildings, a real estate agency specializing in Bauhaus residences. 
 Whether purchasing along Israel's coast or in its spiritual heartland, one thing has been common among almost all foreign home buyers in Israel. They are generally not investment purchases. 
 ''They're intended to be true second homes and not sold or rented for a quick profit,'' said the developer Alfred Akirov, whose eponymous trio of towers helped start Tel Aviv's luxury skyscraper boom in the late 1990s. 
 WHILE foreign sales are providing a much-needed boost to Israel's overall economy -- battered earlier this decade by almost five years of bomb attacks on civilians -- Israelis themselves have not necessarily been so welcoming. 
 Secular, middle-class Jerusalemites who can no longer afford to live in many areas of their city have been the most vocal in their anti-outsider sentiment. What's more, with foreign buyers often absent for months on end, some areas of the city can seem like luxury ghost towns.
 In response, developers have broadened their marketing strategies to include local buyers, as well as voluntarily capping foreign ownership, as in a 30 percent limit at a new seafront tower in the resort city Netanya. While government-mandated restrictions remain unlikely, urban development organizations like the Futura Institute have suggested supplemental property taxes for non-Israeli owners or incentives for developers to include affordable housing aimed at local residents in luxury projects. 
 One firm, Nam5, is constructing a 120-unit residence offering free housing to recently discharged soldiers in a Tel Aviv suburb, as well as a new luxury tower in Tel Aviv.
 For buyers like Dr. Schnabel and Dr. Josephs -- who expect to move to Eden Hills by 2009 -- rising prices and edged-out locals seem a world away from their still-pristine slice of ancient Judea. With homes ranging from $400,000 to well over a million, Eden Hills is priced to appeal to buyers accustomed to living among the parks, tennis courts, artificial lakes, bike trails and tree-lined pedestrian malls typical of high-end American subdivisions. Such attributes, along with numerous synagogues, are designed to lure Eden Hills's wealthy, Orthodox American target audience -- and keep them there. 
 Dr. Schnabel is already practicing for her new, part-time life in Israel with monthlong stays in Jerusalem apartments to gain a sense of the country off the typical tourist track. And Dr. Josephs is so bullish on Israel that he has bought four separate Eden Hills lots for himself and his children.
 ''I am actually thinking of Eden Hills as my primary residence,'' Dr. Josephs said, adding that, eventually, ''I will live in Israel, and then visit my second home -- in New Jersey.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about the marketing of Israeli vacation homes to Americans misspelled the names of two Jerusalem neighborhoods, and a picture caption misstated the location of another. Neighborhoods popular with American vacation-home buyers include Old Katamon and Talbieh, not Old Katmon and Talibeh. The picture showed a house that was being reassembled in the Mamilla neighborhood, which is near the Old City, not in it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION -- American vacation-home shoppers are drawn to areas like Mamilla in Jerusalem's Old City, where this old house is being reassembled. (Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
SELLING POINTS -- Views of the Mediterranean and beach access are luring some American second-home shoppers to Tel Aviv's waterfront, above. At left, Opera Towers.
 NEW AND NOT SO -- Philippe Starck appears on a billboard for the two 40-story towers of his Yoo Tel Aviv project. Older Bauhaus buildings, right, prompted Tel Aviv's nickname, the White City. They're also attracting interest. (Photographs by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. F10)Map of Israel highlighting the West Bank and Eden Hills. (pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); CRUISES (71%); SUBURBS (67%); TERRORISM (50%) Housing; Travel and Vacations; Condominiums

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (66%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (66%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); SHARI ARISON (56%) David Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (57%) Israel; Tel Aviv (Israel); Jerusalem

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



193 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS RALLY BEHIND A PULLOUT FROM IRAQ IN '08

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and ROBIN TONER; Michael Luo contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders in the House and Senate began a new legislative push on Thursday for the withdrawal of combat troops from Iraq in 2008, coalescing behind a fixed timetable to end the war.
 The plan to establish a specific date for removing troops intensifies the confrontation with the administration at a time when Congress is scrutinizing President Bush's request for nearly $100 billion in additional spending toward military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. But Republicans vowed to block the new Democratic effort, which they said amounted to micromanaging the war, and the White House immediately signaled its opposition.
''It would unnecessarily handcuff our generals on the ground, and it's safe to say it's a nonstarter for the president,'' said Dan Bartlett, a senior White House adviser, speaking to reporters as he traveled with Mr. Bush to Latin America. 
 Given the Republican opposition and the Democrats' slender margin in the Senate, the significance of the new plans was as much political as it was legislative. Democratic leaders in the House were optimistic about passing their legislation, but their counterparts in the Senate faced immediate resistance from Republicans and acknowledged that their chances of attracting enough votes seemed slim. 
 The new American commander in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, warned on Thursday that American troops there faced a long road ahead and left open the possibility of calling in even more soldiers to calm the country. He stressed the long-term nature of the effort and asserted a need for open-endedness in the American commitment. [Page A6.] 
 The notion of Democratic leaders embracing a timetable to leave Iraq had ramifications beyond Congress, particularly in the presidential race. The Senate plan sets a goal for troops to be removed by March 31, 2008, similar to a proposal by Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois. 
 A chief rival, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, has advocated a phased withdrawal of troops, but has not proposed setting a specific date. She said she intended to support the Democratic resolution. ''It's a goal; it's not a hard deadline, it's a goal,'' Mrs. Clinton said in an interview Thursday evening as she left the Capitol. ''We're just trying to create some pressure on the president. That's the whole point here.''
 The proposals in the House and Senate reflected the growing sentiment among Democrats that the American public was ready for an end to the war and would not punish their party for escalating the pressure on Mr. Bush to do so. Still, Democratic leaders worked behind the scenes, from dawn to dusk, to sell the plans to the party's nervous conservatives and still unsatisfied liberals. 
 ''This is extremely painful,'' said Representative Carol Shea-Porter, a New Hampshire Democrat elected last fall, in part, because of her opposition to the war. She is eager to end the conflict but intent on supporting the troops. ''There are times that you have to search for a compromise for the good of the country.'' 
 In the House, Democratic leaders presented legislation to their members on Thursday that would place new conditions on military operations in Iraq as well as call for a troop withdrawal no later than August 2008. The proposals are attached to an emergency spending bill that will be considered next week in the Appropriations Committee and debated on the House floor before the end of the month. 
 The Democratic proposal in the House would require Mr. Bush to certify that the Iraqi government is meeting a series of military, political and economic benchmarks. If Mr. Bush cannot verify any progress in Iraq, the legislation calls for the majority of all combat troops to be removed beginning July of this year and completed by Dec. 31.
 The legislation also would prohibit military action in Iran unless authorized by Congress.
 To build support for the plan among Republicans and inside their own caucus, Democrats also proposed spending an additional $900 million to help troops recover from brain injuries and post-traumatic stress. The plan also calls for $1.2 billion more than Mr. Bush requested to fight terrorists in Afghanistan. 
 ''This bill takes giant steps toward putting resources into that war, a war that is unfinished and nearly forgotten by the administration,'' said Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California.
 Democratic leaders loaded the spending bill in the House with provisions intended to build support, or make it hard to vote against, including money for Gulf Coast recovery efforts, the State Children's Health Insurance Program, agriculture disaster programs and security.
 The Democratic spending bill is expected to add at least another $20 billion to the administration's initial request of just over $100 billion -- and it could still grow.
 For much of the day on Thursday, liberal Democrats in the House strolled in and out of the narrow hallway that leads to Ms. Pelosi's office in the Capitol. Democratic leaders sought to allay concerns from some lawmakers that the proposal was not an aggressive enough stance against a four-year-old war.
 ''All this bill will do is fund another year of the war, and I can't vote for that,'' said Representative Jerrold Nadler, a New York member of the Out of Iraq Caucus, who rose at a closed-door meeting to express dissatisfaction with the plan, which he said he believed lacked provisions to force a troop withdrawal.
 Representative John P. Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat who oversees defense spending and has been one of the party's most visible war critics, was working with Ms. Pelosi. ''It's one vote at a time,'' he said. ''That's what we're working on.''
 In the Senate, Democrats said they had strong support in their caucus for a new resolution that would require the president to begin a gradual withdrawal of troops, aiming for a full removal of combat forces by March 31, 2008. The proposal would be binding, but it is unlikely to attract enough Republican support to pass the Senate.
 Still, Democrats see it as a major step in their effort to escalate pressure on the administration and Senate Republicans with a series of votes against Mr. Bush's strategy in Iraq. They also said the resolution had wide support in the Democratic caucus, including that of centrists like Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, who noted that the withdrawal date was a goal with some flexibility.
 Last June, Democratic leaders voted against a plan supported by Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts calling for a similar withdrawal. Democratic strategists say that support for a timetable has steadily grown because of the conditions in Iraq, what they perceive as Mr. Bush's resistance to change and the widespread support among the public for a clear-cut end to the war.
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said he would try to bring the resolution to the Senate floor on Tuesday. But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, did not immediately agree to debate the measure, so it was almost certain to be shelved as other Iraq bills have been this year. 
 ''Funding the troops is the goal of the Senate Republicans,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''Democrats in the Senate have, at latest count, had 16 versions of various proposals to interfere with the president's ability and General Petraeus's ability to conduct this mission successfully.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Congressman John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania was among the Democrats offering their response to a military spending request of nearly $100 billion. Some party members say the counterproposal demands too little. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (73%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; Public Opinion

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CAROL SHEA-PORTER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); JOHN P MURTHA (59%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%) Jeff Zeleny; Robin Toner; Barack (Sen) Obama; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (71%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



194 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Seek Role in Rebuilding Their Nation

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Khalid al-Ansary contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, March 8 

 BODY:
When Rahim al-Daraji looks at the dusty lots just east of Sadr City where scores of bodies have been dumped in the past year, he sees a Ferris wheel, a roller coaster, coffee shops and restaurants. 
 ''We should have an amusement park,'' said Mr. Daraji, one of two elected mayors in Sadr City, the sprawling Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad where American and Iraqi troops have been peacefully clearing homes since Sunday. ''We want to rehabilitate the area so that families can have fun.''
In an interview at his office, Mr. Daraji said the amusement park was one of several projects that community leaders were pushing American officials to finance in negotiations about how to handle the Shiite Mahdi Army, a militia that has controlled the neighborhood for years. 
 A concentrated makeover of Sadr City, he said, would support the plan's goals in two important ways: by giving young Mahdi militants jobs as an alternative to lives of violence and by providing residents with proof of the government's ability to improve their daily lives. 
 Mr. Daraji's requests, however, also reflect a broader effort by Iraqi leaders to dart past ''clear and hold'' to the more lucrative phase of the new security plan known as ''build.'' 
 Even as bombings and killings here continue, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has labeled the plan a success. His Shiite-led government has allotted $10 billion this year for reconstruction throughout the country, and, with billions more expected from the United States, Iraqi leaders at all levels are scrambling for a say in how the windfall might be spent.
 They are also pressing for veto power over contracts, blaming an unwieldy American system of subcontracting that was impossible to police for the loss or theft of billions in reconstruction dollars since the war began. 
 Iraqi figures, political veterans and up and comers are seeking an advisory role. 
 Ahmad Chalabi, for example, the political chameleon and advocate for the war, has re-emerged as an intermediary between Baghdad residents and the Iraqi and American security forces. 
 At a freshly renovated compound in the Green Zone, Mr. Chalabi now regularly meets with leaders from all over Baghdad as they compete for roles in managing the expected infusion of projects and jobs. At a recent gathering, representatives from 15 neighborhoods in eastern Baghdad stood one after another to explain why they should be chosen to lead. 
 For American officials, Sadr City's calls for an amusement park, job training programs and other projects raise a particularly thorny question of trust. In 2004, American troops battled Mahdi militants here for days. More recently, United States military officials have accused the militia of using roadside bombs, possibly linked to Iran, that have killed at least 170 American service members. 
 At the same time, the negotiations over the Mahdi militia, along with the arrest or flight of several commanders, appear to have led to a temporary truce. American soldiers were welcomed into people's homes this week on streets where they once came under fire.
 Gen. David H. Petraeus, at his first news conference as the top commander in Iraq, acknowledged Thursday that the Mahdi militia included a mix of violent extremists and people with more benign motivations.
 ''The challenge,'' he said, ''has been to determine, how do you incorporate those who want to serve in a positive way -- as neighborhood watches, let's say, but unarmed -- in our own communities, but without turning into something much more than that?''
 Mr. Daraji emphasized that Sadr City as a whole ''wants to open a new page in its story.'' He said that Mahdi fighters had laid down their weapons to give the government a chance, and that the opportunity should not be missed. 
 He said the prime minister's office was already seizing the moment with an expanded job recruitment drive for neighborhood residents. As proof, Mr. Daraji -- a chain-smoking tribal sheik partial to tailored suits -- opened a door near his office and pointed to a pile of red, green and yellow folders that he said were job applications for every part of the government, from the Oil Ministry to the police. 
 ''We've collected more than 2,000 applications,'' he said. ''We're classifying them according to whether people have college degrees, whether they are men or women.'' 
 He and other Baghdad government leaders said that the United States military would be smart to add hundreds of additional jobs in the neighborhood because it contained at least 1.5 million people, or about a third of the city, and had just begun to revive after decades of neglect. They said the neighborhood deserved to become a model of government effectiveness. 
 ''The plan is not only about security,'' said Naeem al-Kabbi, Baghdad's deputy mayor in charge of municipal services. ''It's about security, services and reconstruction.''
 Mr. Daraji said he had asked American officials for money to build small playgrounds, with tennis and volleyball courts, every few blocks -- not unlike what can be found in planned communities like Levittown. 
 He said he had pressed the Americans for money to rehabilitate a handful of lakes on the western edge of the neighborhood and for more control over the contracts so they could be assigned faster with less waste.
 ''We need to engage people as soon as possible, get them working, make them busy,'' he said. ''These are quick projects. After these we will move on to medium and larger plans.''
 ''The security process,'' he added, ''accelerates the economic possibilities.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MAYORS (71%); VETO (65%) Area Planning and Renewal; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: Mahdi Army

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (76%) Damien Cave; Ahmad Chalabi; David H (Gen) Petraeus

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Sadr City (Baghdad); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



195 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Visit by Bush Fires Up Latins' Debate Over Socialism

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and LARRY ROHTER; Jim Rutenberg reported from Sao Paulo, and Larry Rohter from Buenos Aires.

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 8 

 BODY:
President Bush has portrayed his trip to Latin America this week as a ''We Care'' tour aimed at dispelling perceptions that he has neglected his southern neighbors.
 But fresh graffiti on streets here in Sao Paulo, where he landed Thursday night for his first stop, calls him a murderer. The smattering of protests and the placement of military vehicles around the city, South America's largest, also present an alternate interpretation of his visit: as a clash between the open capitalism that Mr. Bush espouses and the socialist approach pushed by leftist leaders who have grown in power and popularity.
 And as the administration prepares to use the president's five-nation tour to highlight a new ethanol development deal with Brazil, the most efficient producer of the fuel, and American health care and education programs elsewhere, much of the tour attention is focusing on what may best be called ''the Rumble on the River.'' 
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, Mr. Bush's chief nemesis in the region, will be leading a protest against him in Buenos Aires, as Mr. Bush arrives Friday in Montevideo, Uruguay, across Rio de la Plata from Argentina. ''Our planes will almost cross paths,'' Mr. Chavez said this week, though he denied any intention to sabotage Mr. Bush's visit.
 In interviews with Latin American reporters this week, Mr. Bush played down Mr. Chavez's planned rally, telling one group on Tuesday: ''I go a lot of places and there are street rallies. And my attitude is, I love freedom and the right for people to express themselves.''
 Whether inadvertently or not, though, Mr. Bush irritated Mr. Chavez with a speech on Monday in Washington, in which he said Simon Bolivar, the hero of South America's independence struggle and Mr. Chavez's idol, ''belongs to all of us who love liberty.'' This brought a sharp and sarcastic rejoinder from Mr. Chavez the next day.
 But in spite of administration attempts to minimize the shadow cast on the visit by Mr. Chavez -- who has pushed an aggressively anti-American agenda throughout the region -- the tour itself seems at least in part geared to counter his influence. Mr. Chavez has built that influence in part by showering poor communities with money for housing and health care and by freely dispensing oil at cut-rate prices.
 Mr. Bush's new agreement with Brazil to increase ethanol production in the region represents a way to cut back on the influence that Mr. Chavez's oil supply gives him, while encouraging employment and economic development. And before arriving here, Mr. Bush announced a number of programs to help the poor in the region, whom he referred to, in Spanish, as ''workers and peasants.''
 He promised hundreds of millions of dollars to help families buy homes and said he would dispatch a Navy hospital ship to the region to provide free health services.
 In his interviews this week, Mr. Bush has repeated that the United States' aid to the region has doubled during his tenure, to about $1.6 billion annually. ''When you total all up the money that is spent, because of the generosity of our taxpayers, that's $8.5 billion to programs that promote social justice,'' including education and health, he told reporters on Tuesday. 
 But the view from here could scarcely be more different. 
 In an editorial headlined ''Uncle Scrooge's Paltry Package,'' the conservative daily newspaper O Estado de Sao Paulo noted Wednesday that Mr. Bush's offering amounted to ''the equivalent of five days' cost of the war in Iraq, and a drop of water compared with the ocean of petrodollars in which Chavezism is navigating at full speed, from Argentina to Nicaragua.''
 Some of Mr. Bush's aides said they were worried that perceptions that the United States had neglected its southern neighbors, and frustration in lower classes that had not reaped the benefits of free trade, were helping to fuel leftist movements. 
 Stephen J. Hadley, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said, ''Something we have not done well enough is getting out the full scope of the president's message.''
 Mr. Bush told reporters that he hoped to counter Mr. Chavez's message by espousing the benefits of free trade.
 Asked by a reporter about Mr. Chavez's ''so-called alternative development model'' calling for nationalization of industry, Mr. Bush said: ''I strongly believe that government-run industry is inefficient and will lead to more poverty. I believe if the state tries to run the economy, it will enhance poverty and reduce opportunity.''
 He added, ''So the United States brings a message of open markets and open government to the region.''
 But even Mr. Bush's Brazilian hosts seemed divided in their reaction to that message. Although President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva will be meeting with Mr. Bush on Friday to sign the ethanol accord and is scheduled to visit him at Camp David on March 31, the leftist Workers' Party he leads has chosen to support and take part in the anti-Bush demonstrations. 
 The party warned on its Web site that Mr. Bush ''shouldn't count on Brazil for imperialist actions in the region.'' One essay called him ''the big boss of international terrorism,'' while another declared that Mr. Bush was ''persona non grata'' in Brazil.
 ''The United States in general and the Bush government in particular are brutally violent,'' wrote Valter Pomar, the party's secretary for international relations. ''We will only be free of this threat when the North American people constitute a government on the left.''
 At an evening rush-hour protest in the central business district here, several thousand activists wore stickers showing Mr. Bush with a Hitler-style mustache and a swastika next to his head and the words ''Fora Bush,'' or ''Bush Out.'' 
 With the police standing by in riot gear, antiwar protesters mixed with unionists and environmentalists, who are concerned that harvesting ethanol from sugar could hurt the Amazon. A sea of signs read ''Adolf Bush'' or ''Quit Playing With the Environment.''
 Later, the Brazilian news media reported that police officers used tear gas and batons on protesters who were throwing rocks and struggling with the officers, sending hundreds of demonstrators running through the streets of Sao Paulo. There were no major injuries reported.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Policemen in Sao Paulo, Brazil subduing a demonstrator yesterday during a march to protest President Bush's tour, which started last night. (Photo by Maurilio Cheli/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); RIOTS (77%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); BIOFUELS (74%); ETHANOL (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ALCOHOLS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%) Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations

COMPANY: RIO DE LA PLATA BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HUGO CHAVEZ (79%) Jim Rutenberg; Larry Rohter; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (93%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); URUGUAY (79%) Brazil; Sao Paulo (Brazil); Latin America; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



196 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Al Gore's Outsourcing Solution

BYLINE: By Gregg Easterbrook. 
Gregg Easterbrook is a fellow of the Brookings Institution and the author of ''The Progress Paradox: How Life Gets Better While People Feel Worse.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
LAST month, to the delight of many global-warming skeptics, it was revealed that Al Gore uses 20 times as much electricity and natural gas at his Tennessee house than the national average. Out of curiosity, I put the former vice president's power bills and ZIP code through the home-emissions calculator of TerraPass, a company that sells ''carbon offsets'' -- the promise to reduce greenhouse gases by the same amount your behavior increases them. 
 TerraPass estimated that the power use of a house equivalent to Mr. Gore's causes 377,000 pounds of greenhouse gases annually. That is roughly the annual carbon emission of 20 Hummers. Next time you see Mr. Gore wagging his finger about the energy sins of others, picture a caravan of 20 Hummers driving to the Academy Awards. 
A Gore spokeswoman told the press that the former vice president pays extra for wind energy, and buys carbon offsets. He's not the only one: companies that sell such offsets are rising in popularity, and certificates for them were included in the stars' Oscar night goodie bags. Soon not just individuals, but the entire United States, may be purchasing carbon offsets on a grand scale.
 TerraPass charges $1,247.50 for one year of carbon offsets for a home like Mr. Gore's, the price including a refrigerator magnet proclaiming the home ''carbon balanced.'' Initially I found it hard to believe anyone could counteract Mr. Gore's prodigious energy lust for just $1,247.50, since planting about 20,000 trees would be required to neutralize even half his house's carbon footprint. 
 But it turns out that TerraPass does its good works in part by covering landfills to prevent methane from seeping out. Since methane is a far more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, covering landfills is a cost-effective way to wrestle with global warming. I may be annoyed by Mr. Gore's hectoring, but I'm not going to accuse him of hypocrisy on this one. 
 This all seems a classic example of economies of scale. Individuals can't do anything about landfill methane. But a company like TerraPass can combine the resources of many to accomplish this task, allowing the person of good intent to use energy with no net contribution to the greenhouse effect. Whether companies marketing offsets really do reduce greenhouse gases is something for consumer reporters or the Federal Trade Commission to determine. Assuming the sellers do as promised, buying carbon offsets isn't an exercise in guilt. It's smart economics. 
 There is also a bigger issue here. That offsets are smart economics may be central to slowing carbon accumulation in the atmosphere. The scientific case for greenhouse-gas regulation now strong, and Congress may soon impose the first carbon dioxide limits on American producers. Current bills in the Senate -- one sponsored by John McCain and Joe Lieberman, another by John Kerry and Olympia Snowe -- would cut domestic greenhouse emissions to about the level of 1990. 
 On the plus side, these bills would create a significant profit incentive for greenhouse-gas reduction. Offering inventors and entrepreneurs a profit incentive should lead to an outpouring of anti-global-warming innovations.
 But even if successful, the McCain-Lieberman or Kerry-Snowe bills would only slightly lower future atmospheric levels of greenhouse gases. That's because Chinese carbon emissions are skyrocketing. 
 Since 1990, according to the World Resources Institute, American greenhouse emissions rose 18 percent while Chinese emissions rose 77 percent. China may pass America as the No. 1 emitter of greenhouse gases as soon as 2010. If current trends hold, by 2050 emerging nations led by China and India will emit twice as much carbon as the United States and Western Europe combined. 
 China's emissions are soaring because the Chinese economy is nearly three times as ''carbon intensive'' as America's, burning far more fossil fuel per unit of gross domestic product. Chinese coal-fired power plants are notoriously inefficient, consuming twice as much coal per kilowatt produced as American generating stations. They also run without the elaborate anti-pollution ''stack scrubbers'' found in Western power plants. And China opens a new coal-fired generating station every week to 10 days. 
 Here's where offset economics come into play. Dollar for dollar, capital invested in greenhouse gas reduction would accomplish more if used to improve the efficiency of Chinese power plants than if spent in the United States. America needs legislation capping carbon emissions here, but Congress should allow American companies and consumers to use investments in carbon offsets in China and India against those caps, where the bang for the buck is much higher.
 As a bonus, American investment in reducing Chinese and Indian air pollution would improve public health in those nations. Today smog in Chinese and Indian cities is worse than any in the West since London of the early 1950s. The result is far higher rates of respiratory disease in China and India than in the West. 
 If our goal in legislating against carbon releases is not simply punishing the West and its power companies but truly trying to reduce the accumulation of greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere, the main event will be in the developing world. We must use the smartest possible economics, and that means investing in China and India.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARBON OFFSETS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); METHANE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); WIND ENERGY (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (71%); OUTSOURCING (71%); LANDFILLS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Law and Legislation; Weather

PERSON: AL GORE (92%) Gregg Easterbrook

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) United States; China; India

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007



197 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Labor Shortage Becoming Acute In Technology

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; Eric Sylvers contributed reporting from Milan.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 9 

 BODY:
Corinne Margot is reaching deep into her bag of tricks to find new employees.
 Ms. Margot, the director of human resources for Soitech, a fast-growing French manufacturer of semiconductors, has created a Web site that lets managers identify and recruit engineers directly, bypassing her own office for the sake of efficiency.
And she is bringing in people from outside France -- indeed, outside Europe -- to plug the gaps.
 Ms. Margot is also traveling to French universities and technical schools to plant the idea of a career in semiconductors in the minds of young people, hoping they remember the name Soitech as well. But despite her efforts, as she grimly acknowledges, Soitech's stretched work force is still struggling to keep up with the orders coming in. 
 ''We haven't had to tell customers to wait yet,'' Ms. Margot said, ''but it's coming.''
 For a continent where high unemployment has defined economic life for much of the last three decades, it may seem counterintuitive that Europe could be facing a labor shortage. But that is very much the case across important swaths of the European economy, as reflected in surveys and interviews with executives. 
 And it is precisely the most dynamic, future-oriented industries that have been hardest hit. For recruiting departments around Europe, 2007 could be the worst year in memory.
 At the end of 2006, the unemployment rate of the 13-country euro zone was 7.5 percent, its lowest level since 1993. Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, is fond of pointing out that this is still a ''very high level,'' with 11.1 million people out of work, and far higher than the 4.5 percent rate in the United States.
 But this cyclical upswing in Europe, in contrast to the softening in the United States, is accentuating labor bottlenecks. Europe's pickup began in earnest last year, yet, according to the European Central Bank, many companies handled much of the new work that flowed into factories and offices by increasing productivity and lengthening work hours. Now that they are turning to the labor market for new hires, they are finding that the pickings are slim.
 The cyclical problems are layered atop a structural one. Europe's painful shift from heavy industry to more specialized manufacturing and services, combined with generally low prestige for highly technical professions, has outpaced what Europe's educational system has to offer.
 ''People that are available on the labor market do not correspond to what the corporate sector needs,'' said Veronique Riche-Flores, chief economist for Societe Generale in Paris. ''They simply have different qualifications, or none at all.''
 Sometimes the solution is higher salary and better benefits. But more often than not, companies have to find ways to work around a limited supply of qualified employees -- by nurturing young talent, finding people from overseas, or simply moving operations outside Europe.
 Measured by the European Commission's main survey on labor shortages and interviews across industries from computer hardware to software to machine tools to fashion and banking, the shortage of employees has not been this acute since the technology boom years at the start of this decade. Some recruiters have to think back even further to remember a time when their work was so difficult.
 ''My colleagues are constantly asking how far I have come in finding them new people,'' said Andreas Weber, head of personnel for the SMS Group, a German engineering company that builds manufacturing technology. ''But if I don't have applicants, I have nothing to offer them.''
 Europe's giant companies are not immune. Klaus Kleinfeld, chief executive of Siemens, the engineering conglomerate, said that it had 2,500 positions open in Germany alone. Over the last year, the shortage has become acute enough that Siemens has begun bringing employees out of retirement to work on specific projects.
 ''Our growth rates is now mostly limited by our human resources capacity,'' Mr. Kleinfeld said.
 The scarcity of qualified labor is already hitting the bottom lines in the major economies, and companies like Soitech seem sure to follow in the footsteps of companies that have been forced to forsake sales opportunities.
 Electrical engineering -- in which midsize family-owned businesses in Germany, known as the Mittelstand, lead the way in Europe -- is a case in point. In 2006, employment in this industry rose for the first time since 2001, but the 6,000 to 8,000 new positions it would like to create this year may not materialize.
 The Association of German Engineers estimates there were 22,000 open engineering positions in Germany at the end of 2006, in building, energy, machine tools and other areas. That is 30 percent more than the previous year. Since one employed engineer generates 2.3 jobs in other areas, the group estimates the value of economic activity lost at about 3.7 billion euros in Germany alone, or about $4.8 billion.
 In the face of such acute shortages, many companies are assuming a role previously dominated by the state in Europe: They are going into universities, technical academies and even secondary schools to make their case directly to young people. Although that has been done before, executives say today's missionary work in European schools has a different quality.
 ''We are reaching out to schools to try and encourage students to prepare themselves in the best possible way not just for working in our field, but in any field,'' said Albert Tacchella, chairman of Ucimu, the Italian machine tool manufacturing association.
 UniCredit, which in 2005 cemented the largest cross-border banking merger in Europe when it bought the HVB Group of Germany, recently created UniManagement, a combination research institute and management school for crucial executives. 
 ''These are the lengths that companies go to train and keep their top employees,'' said Anna Simioni, chief executive of UniManagement.
 Recruiting more people from outside Europe is another persistent theme. At Soitech, there has been an explosion in the number of nationalities represented over the last few years, from a handful to at least 19 today. ''We are beginning to recruit on an international market rather than a French market,'' Ms. Margot, the personnel chief, said.
 But this pool of engineers, who in any case face bureaucratic hurdles to work in France, is limited, since they need to speak French to communicate with the technicians they supervise.
 Moving jobs offshore is another alternative. The SMS Group has found itself weighing whether to move parts of the business to its operations in China, India, the United States and Brazil. In years past, assuming costs alone did not drive them out of Germany, the company would have been inclined to keep high-skill jobs at home, in part to foster good communication with headquarters. Now, positions that could stay in Germany for cost reasons are headed abroad for lack of personnel. 
 ''We are trying to keep our core competencies here,'' Mr. Weber, the personnel chief for SMS, said, ''but simpler tasks are headed abroad.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Klaus Kleinfeld, chief executive of Siemens, the engineering conglomerate, said that it had 2,500 positions open in Germany alone. (Photo by Cliff Serna for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EURO ZONE (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: KLAUS KLEINFELD (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007



198 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: More Finding Work in U.S., and Jobs Go Begging in Europe

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
If the economy is really slowing as much as some recent statistics suggest, working Americans have so far managed to dodge the bullet.
 The Labor Department's latest monthly report on employment, released yesterday, showed all the hallmarks of a still healthy job market in February: steadily rising wages, firm job growth and a low unemployment rate. Employers added 97,000 workers, according to the estimate, and the jobless rate ticked down to 4.5 percent from 4.6 percent.
The decent-sized job gains, coupled with yet another upward revision to the employment increases first reported for previous months, helped assuage some of the anxiety over the state of the economy. 
 And the latest figures provided some reassurance to investors whose nerves were still on edge from last week's global stock market turmoil, encouraging an initial flurry of buy orders but then settling down, with both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closing marginally higher.
 A number of closely watched economic reports -- including those that measure growth and business investment -- have detected a downshift in recent months. While the economy may remain relatively sluggish, the new employment report suggests that a slower but still robust job market and rising wages should help provide the wherewithal for Americans to keep up the solid pace of spending that has prevented the economy from tipping down.
 ''I don't clearly see the fingerprints of a significantly slowing economy,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the labor-supported Economic Policy Institute. ''There are some scary clouds out there, but the clouds didn't break this month.'' As encouraging as the report was, it also contained several points of concern. Forty percent of the new jobs created last month were provided by localities, states and the federal government. Economists consider strong private sector job growth to be the foundation of a sturdy job market, yet private businesses added only 58,000 jobs in February, the lowest amount since November 2004. Businesses also trimmed the number of hours in an average workweek to 33.7 from 33.8.
 ''We're creating jobs, the unemployment rate is dropping, but there is something very troubling that tells us the private sector is indeed slowing,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group. ''In many ways, this is a mixed report.''
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that the nation's trade deficit -- the difference between what Americans export and import -- narrowed in January, to $59.1 billion from a revised $61.5 billion deficit in December. 
 The bond market took both reports as signs of strength in the economy, pushing interest rates up and prices lower yesterday.
 The 97,000 extra jobs that the Labor Department found in its initial survey for February was below the January number but enough to ease concerns that businesses have begun to pull back sharply. The government also said its estimates of employment in January and December were too low. It revised statistics for those months to reflect an additional 55,000 jobs, bringing the total number of jobs created in the last three months to a respectable 469,000, or about 157,000 a month.
 Given the significant upward revisions the government has made to employment figures in recent months, economists said February's job-creation number was likely to rise, too. 
 ''It has gotten to the point where maybe it'd be smart just to add 25,000 jobs to every number that comes out,'' said Drew Matus, an economist with Lehman Brothers.
 Hispanics experienced a significant change in their employment situation last month. The unemployment rate for Hispanics dropped to 5.2 percent from 5.7 percent. The rate for blacks, 7.9 percent, and the rate for whites, 4.0 percent, each fell by a tenth of a percentage point. 
 Workers' average hourly earnings continued to rise at a strong pace. The average employee in a nonmanagement job earned 4.1 percent more in February than a year earlier -- an increase that significantly outpaced the rate of inflation. Average hourly pay jumped to $17.16 from $16.49 in February 2006.
 Lower-paying professions were some of the fastest growing last month. Pay grew the most in February for workers in the leisure and hospitality industries, which have been adding workers rapidly in recent months. Restaurants and bars, in particular, have been growing, and last month they added 21,000 jobs.
 Businesses also rushed to fill building services jobs, adding 11,300 positions for custodians, landscapers, exterminators and similar professions. 
 But workers in factories and on construction sites were hit hard again last month, losing a combined 76,000 jobs. Most of that, 62,000 was in construction, which economists said reflected both the cold weather and the slowdown in housing. The unemployment rate for construction workers jumped to 10.5 percent from 8.6 percent a year earlier.
 State and local governments added more jobs than any sector last month, hiring 35,000 people. While that troubled some economists who said it pointed to weak private sector growth, others said it would become a problem only in the long term.
 ''In the short term, it doesn't matter who's writing the check, as long as checks are being written,'' Mr. Matus said. ''If we see government jobs making up the bulk of the employment growth in March and in April, then I would start to worry.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''JOB GROWTH REMAINED HEALTHY IN THE UNITED STATES . . .''Net change in total non-farm employment each month. The economy added 97,000 jobs in February, about as expected.Graph shows seasonally adjusted figures since 2000.Chart: ''. . . AND EVEN IN EUROPE, SKILLED LABOR IS HARDER TO FIND''The percentage of companies surveyed by the European Commission who say that labor availability is limiting production.Graph shows quarterly figures, seasonally adjusted since 2000.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 European Commission)(pg. C1)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in February''Graph shows the unemployment rate (4.5%) since March, 2006.BY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteFEB.: 4.0%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1BlackFEB.: 7.91-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -1.4Hispanic*FEB.: 5.21-MONTH CHANGE: -0.51-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3AsianFEB.: 2.7+1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.51-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5Teenagers (16-19)FEB.: 14.91-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENTIn weeksAverageFEB.: 16.41-MONTH CHANGE: +1.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: -7.9%MedianFEB.: 8.11-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -9.0Graph shows employment figures since March, 2006. (Nonfarm payroll, 12-month change)AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersFEB.: $578.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +3.8%SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedFEB.: 63.2%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.3Labor force (workers and unemployed)FEB.: 66.21-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENTIn millionsWorking part time, but want full-time workFEB.: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: -0.8%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.1%People who currently want a job**FEB.: 4.6+1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -3.4UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolFEB.: 7.1%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.High schoolFEB.: 4.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1Some collegeFEB.: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1Bachelor's or higherFEB.: 1.91-MONTH CHANGE: -0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3BY TYPE OF WORKIn millionsNonfarmFEB.: 137.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5%GoodsFEB.: 22.51-MONTH CHANGE: -0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3ServicesFEB.: 114.91-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +1.8AgricultureFEB.: 2.31-MONTH CHANGE: +3.41-YEAR CHANGE: +5.4Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.**People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.January 2007Imports: $185.79 billionExports: 126.67 billionBalance: -$ 59.12 billion(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); WORK WEEK (76%); BONDS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); EXPORT PRICES (62%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Working Hours; Government Employees; Hispanic-Americans; Blacks; Labor; Factories and Industrial Plants; Building (Construction); International Trade and World Market; Labor; Labor

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007



199 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: China Is Forming Agency To Invest Foreign Reserves

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 9 

 BODY:
China will create an agency to invest its immense reserves of foreign currency, now totaling more than $1 trillion, the country's finance minister announced on Friday.
 The minister, Jin Renqing, offered no specifics about how much of China's currency reserves would be under the agency's control. But whatever the precise figure, analysts say that the agency is certain to begin life as one of the world's biggest investment funds.
China's currency holdings are already the world's largest, and they are growing rapidly because of China's huge trade surpluses. Most of the reserves are now invested very conservatively, in United States Treasury bonds and other government securities, a strategy that helps to keep interest rates low in the United States and other developed countries but earns little profit for China. 
 The new agency would be able to invest some of the money more diversely and aggressively, analysts said, with the possibility of hundreds of billions of dollars being used to acquire ''strategic assets'' -- mines, oil fields, whole companies -- around the world, especially in developing countries in Africa and Latin America.
 ''They're not going to be looking for financial assets, but energy assets and natural resources, minerals, things China desperately needs,'' said Jing Ulrich, an analyst at JPMorgan.
 The government said the new agency would be modeled in part on Temasek Holdings, the Singapore government's hugely successful investment agency, which manages an $84 billion global portfolio of investments.
 Like most countries, China's huge foreign exchange reserves are largely kept as insurance, in case of a financial panic or swift reversal of fortune for the economy.
 The reserves are now held by the Chinese central bank, and most of the reserves are expected to remain there, in safe, conservative investments in government securities. Still, the new agency is expected to get a substantial portion to work with. 
 Some financial experts are already talking about the huge impact China could have as a major global investor, and the possibility that its purchases could push asset prices higher and create even more competition for scarce commodities and resources.
 But Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said the new agency would not be allowed to simply speculate.
 ''The biggest priority is safety, and under the principle of security, we will try to increase the efficiency of management and the investments' returns,'' Mr. Jin said at a news conference this morning, held as part of a two-week meeting of the National People's Congress, China's largely ceremonial national legislature.
 The formation of such an agency has been rumored for months, and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in January that the government was exploring new ideas about investing the currency reserves.
 Andy Rothman, a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said the government was likely to proceed cautiously and give the agency only a relatively small part of the reserves to work with at first, perhaps $20 billion. 
 ''I think they are going to move very, very slowly in diversifying what they are doing,'' he said. ''Nobody should expect that suddenly they are going to invest $1 trillion.''
 Some analysts say the formation of the new agency means China is moving away from heavy reliance on investing in United States dollars through Treasury securities. Such a shift could affect American interest rates, which remain low in part because of China's huge bond purchases.
 But foreign exchange reserves in China are accumulating so quickly -- by more than $20 billion a month, analysts say -- that China is likely to continue buying huge numbers of Treasury bonds for a long time to come even if the new agency gets a fast start.
 The immense foreign exchange holdings are just one of many signs of China's spectacular rise, and its growing influence in the global economy and financial markets.
 And with that growth has come rising costs at home for education, health care and pensions. Earning more on government holdings, analysts say, would allow the government to better cope with some of these problems.
 Mr. Rothman said the decision to set up the new agency should be seen in the context of other new government measures, like the recent efforts to enact a private property law and another new law to equalize corporate taxes. He said China was trying to create the legal and regulatory structure to underpin its still-evolving market economy.
 Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said the new agency would answer directly to the State Council, the equivalent of China's cabinet.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Finance Minister Jin Renqing describing his investment priorities. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BONDS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%) Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Temasek Holdings

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (59%) Jim Yardley; David Barboza; Jin Renqing (Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) China; Singapore; China

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007



200 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Walker, Fiscal Ranger

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
THE federal government's fiscal crisis is so great that it threatens the future of the republic, David M. Walker, the comptroller general of the United States, warned on ''60 Minutes'' on Sunday (cbsnews.com).
 ''I would argue,'' he told Steve Kroft, ''that the most serious threat to the United States is not someone hiding in a cave in Afghanistan or Pakistan but our own fiscal irresponsibility.'' 
Mr. Walker, who heads the Government Accountability Office, has embarked on a mission to take his message to the people because, he says, politicians don't want to hear about it, much less act. 
 But that mission may be quixotic. If Mr. Walker's alarms are valid, the near total lack of a response to the report is quite disturbing. There was very little in the way of reaction from blogs or in most of the media this week. 
 There may have been two reasons for this. First, the nation's attention was drawn to the continuing events surrounding the death of Anna Nicole Smith and the Walter Reed Army Medical Center scandal. Second, Mr. Walker, even as he is making declarations that are downright spooky, comes across as the mild-mannered accountant that he is. His ''Fiscal Wake-Up Tour'' (gao.gov) looks as if it could put some people to sleep.
 Mr. Kroft, both in the segment and in his online ''Reporter's Notebook,'' provides, via his reportorial delivery, a bit of needed dramatic tension. The severity of the looming crisis is ''the dirty little secret everyone in Washington knows,'' he said, ''a set of financial truths so inconvenient that most elected officials don't even want to talk about them.''
 Nearly 80 million people will retire in the next 20 years, putting ever greater strain on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, and putting all of those programs, the government as a whole, and possibly the national economy, at grave risk.
 In an article this month for The Futurist magazine (available at www.wfs.org/futurist.htm only to subscribers to the magazine's free e-mail newsletter), Mr. Walker's message is laid bare, separated from his somewhat nerdy persona.
 ''Myopia, or shortsightedness, can undermine a nation's willingness and ability to act,'' he wrote. ''In the case of the United States, strong economic growth, modest inflation levels, relatively low interest rates, and our current superpower status have given many policy makers and the American public a false sense of security about our nation's current position and future prospects. Despite the impending retirement of the baby boom generation, America continues to party on and pile up record levels of debt.''VIRTUAL TAXMAN -- Players of the online video game Second Life can make money -- real money -- as they play. The virtual cash that's converted into dollars is taxable, but what about income that stays in the game?
 Tax law is ''murky'' on that question, reports Grace Wong on CNNMoney.com. The Joint Economic Committee of Congress may help clear things up when it releases a study this month. Reportedly, the study will lean toward recommending that the government leave its hands off virtual earnings.
 But not everybody is convinced. ''As soon as you start looking at what's going on in these worlds, they look a lot like real economic transactions,'' said Bryan Camp, a professor at Texas Tech University School of Law. He compares virtual cash to bartering, which is taxable. 
 It's a quandary, to be sure. The Chinese government addressed the problem this week by declaring that it is now ''strictly forbidden'' to convert online money into the real thing, according to The Financial Times (ft.com).BE A MAN -- In the latest case of the advertising industry's exploitation of male insecurity, a TV spot for the Texas Rangers (viewable at video.google.com) depicts a man shopping for, and sniffing, scented candles with his wife. He notices with horror that he's being watched by a disgusted, ball-cap-and-jersey- wearing father-and-son team. A look of realization crosses his face, and the tagline appears: ''You could use some baseball.'' DAN MITCHELL

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); MEDICAID (73%); MEDICARE (73%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); ARMIES (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

 
