

201 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2561 words

HEADLINE: Face-Off 

BYLINE:  By STEVE KURUTZ

 BODY:
RAY HIGGS marched into his tiny, hastily furnished office wearing the tense look of a man juggling six projects at once and dissatisfied with them all. It was barely noon on a Monday, and Mr. Higgs already seemed tired. "This business," he said, "is very high pressure." 
 Mr. Higgs runs Company Photo, a new film-developing lab on West 22nd Street off Seventh Avenue on the western fringe of the photo district, a six-block chunk between 17th and 23rd Streets crowded with processing labs, frame shops and equipment rental houses. Mr. Higgs is a doughy, anonymous-looking fellow, but in this part of town he is a boldface name. 
 For nine years, his bend-over-backward work ethic and highly personal service (3 a.m. calls from panicked clients are not uncommon) have made him a valuable ally to dozens of the city's professional photographers and made them deeply loyal. As Matt Salacuse, a photographer who has known Mr. Higgs for several years, put it: "Everywhere else, you're dealing with lackeys. With Ray, you're getting the boss to run your film. It's like the owner of Starbucks asking if you need more milk in your latte." 
 Mr. Higgs's reputation is less glowing a block and a half away at Coloredge, arguably the city's most popular film lab. Until August, he worked there as a sales representative. But when the owner, Raja Sethuraman, learned that Mr. Higgs planned to open a rival lab and try to hire away Coloredge employees, he confronted him. The next week, Mr. Higgs and three partners opened Company Photo. 
 The result is a feud that has roiled the New York photo world, a small but deeply contentious and pressurized part of the city's economy. Each side is scrapping for business, and photographers, many of whom have international reputations, are caught in the middle. Chief among them is Annie Leibovitz, who has a new book out and whose ubiquitous celebrity portraits and glossy Vanity Fair magazine covers have been processed at Coloredge for five years -- and had been overseen by Mr. Higgs. 
 Complicating matters, Coloredge has sued Mr. Higgs in New York State Supreme Court, accusing him of unethical business practices and more than $600,000 owed on unpaid invoices. The lawsuit offers a glimpse of a rough-and-tumble industry that has become even more cutthroat as the city's decades-old love affair with the captured image has intensified. 
 New York has long served as both a muse and a base for everyone from art-world photographers like Diane Arbus to paparazzi like Ron Galella. And because the industries that employ commercial photographers -- advertising, fashion and magazine -- are based here, the city is a magnet for thousands of would-be photographers. 
 Although few New Yorkers know the names of labs like Coloredge, their fruits are everywhere; the mammoth Louis Vuitton billboard showing Jennifer Lopez at 57th Street and Fifth Avenue is one high-profile image processed at Coloredge. 
 As digital technology allows unprecedented access to the art form, amateurs and aspiring professionals are increasingly passing on one-hour processing in favor of professional labs, of which the city has about two dozen. The feud between Coloredge and Company Photo shows that the battle in the multimillion-dollar business is fierce.

Trouble, Then Trust
 Ray Higgs, 47, does not come across as a person capable of creating a minor tremor in this world, much less an industry-shattering rift. Bald, with a belly that lurches past his belt, he has never been a photographer. Though he is knowledgeable about film developing, he has never done that, either. 
 Mr. Higgs stumbled into the business after his dream of being a comedian fizzled. "I never planned on getting a job," said Mr. Higgs, who grew up in Dutchess County, N.Y. "I was going to get discovered, like a solar system."
 In the late 70's, when Mr. Higgs started out, much of the photo district was farther uptown, with several labs clustered around 38th Street and Madison; it was there, in 1979, that Mr. Higgs began as a billing typist at Reproduction Color Specialists. The industry has long been dominated by companies run by Indian immigrants -- primary among them Duggal Digital Solutions on West 23rd Street -- but the staffs are a multiethnic stew. "It was like working at the United Nations," Mr. Higgs said of his time at the company.
 The lab catered mainly to advertising agencies like Ted Bates, retouching work by hand; Mr. Higgs recalls a popular Revlon campaign that featured Raquel Welch. He worked at the lab five years before getting fired. "I was young, and thought I knew everything," he explained, "and my big mouth got me in trouble." 
 Mr. Higgs then moved to Tartaro Color and then to a lab called Frenchy's. "It was the first lab to go digital," Mr. Higgs said, "which scared the hell out of everybody."
 During the 1980's, when advertising budgets were still flush, catering to individual photographers was considered marginal business. Not until Mr. Higgs landed at the C-Lab, in 1994, did he begin developing the relationships with photographers that became his trademark.
 Troy House, a fashion photographer, met Mr. Higgs back then. "Something about Ray clicked," Mr. House said. "He was this dorky guy with a New York Giants shirt on, but he was someone I could get along with. More importantly, he was someone I could trust." 
 Michael Lavine, who has snapped photos of everyone from Cher to the Notorious B.I.G., also befriended Mr. Higgs. In the spring of 1997, armed with a Rolodex of loyal photographers and two decades of experience, Mr. Higgs moved to Coloredge.

A Cultural Way Station
 Occupying a slim office building on 21st Street off Fifth Avenue, Coloredge is set up much like a factory. Separate parts of the business -- color processing, black-and-white developing, digital retouching -- are on designated floors, and the lab's 140 workers each have a specialty. The photographers who entrust their work to the lab include Michael Thompson, who shoots celebrities like Jennifer Aniston for the cover of W magazine, and Mario Testino, a frequent contributor to Vogue.
 A photographer's reputation is built squarely on the ability to deliver high-quality prints -- on time. For photographers, Mr. Higgs's appointment was the beginning of a six-year golden era of what many photographers considered to be unparalleled service.
 Aside from the shooter's own eye, nothing is more important than the lab, the place film is transformed from negative to developed image, where those images are color-corrected and transferred to contact sheets and ultimately prints. The labs are, in many ways, cultural way stations; from the large, emulsion-filled tanks emerge the images that will be seen in magazines, on billboards and at galleries around the city and around the world. The photos for Taryn Simon's book "The Innocents," featuring prisoners exonerated through DNA testing, for example, were printed at Coloredge.
 The process is art and craft: through a mix of chemicals and light, a single image can be exposed dozens of ways. It is also a lucrative business. A fledgling photographer bills about $15,000 a year in lab fees; with postproduction costs, someone of Ms. Leibovitz's stature could spend more than $250,000. Media giants like Conde Nast spend millions of dollars a year. On a busy day, a lab will process 1,500 rolls of film. 
 Many things can go wrong. Images can come back under- or overexposed; a lab may miss a deadline, causing the photographer to do the same. Negatives can be scratched or, worse, a roll of film lost and with it, perhaps, the shot.
 Because negatives are a photographer's lifeblood, and because this crucial step in the process is largely out of their hands, finding a trustworthy lab is essential. Mr. Higgs understood this innately and working in a corner office on the ground floor of Coloredge, he labored overtime to calm clients' nerves.
 Mr. Higgs personally signed off on each order and, if necessary, ran images dozens of times, at no extra charge, until a photographer was satisfied. Shooters develop their own style, and Mr. Higgs memorized them all. So if a photographer were, say, in Africa, and a magazine needed to see a print, Mr. Higgs could make sure the image was developed to the right specifications.
 Once, when Mr. House was out of the country and needed pictures sent to a client, Mr. Higgs was having surgery. "Ray calls me from his hospital bed and says, 'I'm looking at your prints and they're great,"' Mr. House said. "He had them messengered to the hospital. I'm like, 'Ray, it's not that important."'
 In some cases, photographers have one day to shoot an assignment and get the prints to an editor. Mr. Higgs became known as the go-to guy for rush processing, getting film developed ahead of schedule. 
 For established photographers, like Mr. House and Ms. Leibovitz, such service is customary. But Mr. Higgs also treated promising beginners with equal respect, something rare in the photo world. Emily Shur, who takes pictures for Entertainment Weekly and GQ, said that when she started out, other photo labs were unhelpful, but Mr. Higgs was different. "Ray treated me like I was important," she said, "and schooled me on how to handle myself professionally."
 According to Coloredge management, however, Mr. Higgs was less than courteous toward colleagues. Mario Delgado, Mr. Higgs's assistant for five years and, according to him, the only 1 of 15 assistants who eventually stayed with him, considers him a mentor but said he could be tough to work for. "Ray is moody and demanding," Mr. Delgado said. "If things didn't go a certain way, he'd fly into a rage."
 At some point, as stated in the lawsuit, Mr. Sethuraman, Coloredge's owner, began to suspect that Mr. Higgs was offering clients free or reduced services, including unnecessary rush processing, at Coloredge's expense. "Ray was giving photographers perks, but he wasn't the one paying the technicians' payroll," Mr. Sethuraman said in an interview a few weeks ago. "He was using our facility to make himself look good."
 Stylistic differences between the two men may have worsened their differences. While Mr. Higgs is emotional, Mr. Sethuraman is cool. Thin, with a rascal's mustache, he wears Armani shirts and resembles an Indian Burt Reynolds.
 In court papers, Mr. Higgs denies Mr. Sethuraman's allegations. And Mr. Higgs's defenders, like Mr. Lavine, say that offering discounts and exceptional service to customers is the cost of doing business and that he did exactly what he was hired to do. 
 Mr. Higgs earned a commission on each order, but, according to Mr. Delgado, he also brought significant revenue to Coloredge. Mr. Sethuraman felt otherwise. On Aug. 4, he summoned Mr. Higgs to a meeting where, Mr. Sethuraman said, he confronted him. "Ray thought he was a color lab sage," he said. "Only Mr. Eastman is a sage."

Fathers and Sons
 In many ways, Mr. Higgs's messy departure is business as usual in the photo district, where allegiances are tenuous and breakups common. The patriarch of this combative world is Baldev Duggal, an Indian photographer who moved to New York in 1957. He became a pioneer in the business, working in his apartment on East 49th Street washing prints in his bathtub.
 In the early 1960's, Mr. Duggal invented the "dip-and-dunk" process, in which negatives are hung upright on hangers and dipped into large, emulsion-filled tanks. He was also the first to start a lab in the current photo district, when he moved, in 1961, to West 20th Street off Fifth Avenue. "I used to hire a car service to pick me up right at my door," Mr. Duggal said. "The neighborhood wasn't so good then."
 But cheap rents, lofts perfect for studios and Mr. Duggal's lab helped transform the area into a destination for photographers. In time, frame shops and rental houses followed. Mr. Duggal also played father to the New York processing industry by staffing his lab with both relatives and ambitious Indian immigrants, including Mr. Sethuraman. Like fruit bursting from a tree, many of them broke off and set up their own labs -- Baboo Color Labs, Manhattan Color, Coloredge -- each of which is Indian-owned and can trace its roots to Mr. Duggal.
 And, according to Baldev Duggal's son Michael, what Mr. Higgs is accused of committing at Coloredge is reminiscent of when Mr. Sethuraman struck out on his own from Duggal. "My father hired Raja and helped him get his citizenship," the younger Mr. Duggal said. "Yet he was making plans to open Coloredge and hire away our employees while he was still working here." However, Mr. Duggal went on to say that he did not like to focus on the past or the politics within the photo district.
 While the industry has a fractious history, Coloredge and Company Photo are clearly embroiled in something far more personal than a business rivalry, and for many, the fallout has been uncomfortable. 
 "I couldn't sleep for a week," Mr. Delgado said, referring to the multiple calls and offers he received from both companies. "All I wanted to do was punch in, work hard and go home. But I got caught up in the politics."
 Mr. Delgado eventually agreed to stay with Coloredge, secured with a substantial raise and a three-year contract. For the photographers, his decision made things more complicated. "I like Mario, and I like Ray," Ms. Shur said. "I didn't know what to do."
 Ms. Leibovitz's choice was more cut and dried. An employee at her studio on West 26th Street who wished to remain anonymous said that while Ms. Leibovitz was happy with the service Mr. Higgs provided, her loyalties are to Coloredge. 
 The split has resulted in two competing labs run by two different men. Both Mr. Sethuraman and Mr. Higgs come from modest backgrounds and worked hard for their success. Mr. Sethuraman's wood-panel office is filled with rare framed prints, gifts from photographers like Mr. Testino and Cindy Sherman. By contrast, Mr. Higgs's office is nearly bare, and his company hums with the nervous energy of a start-up.
 Mr. Sethuraman is also able to move effortlessly within the sphere of art and fashion. Not long ago, the fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld was in Paris when Mr. Sethuraman's name came up. "I must meet this Raja person," Mr. Lagerfeld said. "Everyone brings their film to him."
 Ultimately, however, success in film processing rests on superior customer service, and Mr. Higgs has set the bar high. "Ray has the ability to interpret what I need, and to get it done," said Mr. Lavine, the music photographer. "And if he can't get it done, he still gets it done." 
 Mr. Sethuraman has his supporters, too. Michael Thompson has remained with Coloredge, said his assistant, Kevin O'Brien, because of the superior service. "I've been in Brooklyn at 1 a.m. and they've come to pick up film," Mr. O'Brien said. On another occasion, Mr. Testino was on a shoot in the Hamptons when he called Coloredge and asked that film be sent by messenger in 40 minutes. Mr. Sethuraman chartered a helicopter and delivered the film on time.
 In an attempt at diplomacy, some photographers now give business to both labs. And while Mr. Higgs's absence at Coloredge is still felt, his former assistant, Mr. Delgado has been anointed "the new Ray." But, as Mr. House, the fashion photographer, observed, "There are worse things in life than having two quality people fighting for you."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article and picture caption in this section on Nov. 9 about warring high-end photo labs credited a large advertising sign erroneously to one lab, Coloredge. The sign, at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street for Louis Vuitton, was produced by a Manhattan company called Fuel Digital Inc.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ray Higgs, top, worked for Raja Sethuraman, above, and Coloredge six years, bringing in prestige and money. Now, Coloredge is suing Mr. Higgs. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Film labs are cultural way stations between the photographer's eye and the public. The Louis Vuitton image of Jennifer Lopez at Fifth Avenue near 57th Street, left, was processed at Coloredge.; Ray Higgs, bottom, oversaw the processing of work by Annie Leibovitz, inset, for five years. But when he formed his own company, Ms. Leibovitz stayed with Raja Sethuraman, left.; Mario Delgado, right, learned his craft by working with Ray Higgs for five years. Now Mr. Delgado has been anointed "the new Ray." (Photos by Above and lower left, Ruth Fremson/The New York Times; lower right and bottom, Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times; inset, Mark Mainz/Getty Images)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); BUSINESS ETHICS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); ETHICS (74%); CELEBRITIES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LITIGATION (65%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Photography

ORGANIZATION: Coloredge (Co); Company Photo (Co)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (55%) Ray Higgs; Raja Sethuraman; Steve Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



202 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS; 
Crib Notes From the Underground

BYLINE:  By SAM SCHECHNER; Sam Schechner is a senior editor of MTV Magazines.

 BODY:
EVEN after waiting outside in an insistent wind for more than two hours, Jeffrey Babbitt was eager to talk to strangers about the first time he drove a New York City subway train. It was in the early 50's, on one of the old low-voltage IRT expresses, and the motorman let him work the controls from Franklin Avenue to Borough Hall in Brooklyn, or maybe even all the way up Lexington Avenue and into the Bronx. He couldn't remember exactly; he was only 3 at the time. 
 Mr. Babbitt told his story while waiting in line for the New York City Train Operator test, Exam No. 2085, which was offered on Oct. 25 to more than 14,000 people at 14 locations across the city. He was there because he wanted to drive the subway again. "My ideal job would be motorman," Mr. Babbitt said before correcting himself: "Motorman instructor." 
 As exam time approached, the line grew backward from where Mr. Babbitt stood, at the entrance of James Madison High School on Bedford Avenue in the Madison section of Brooklyn. It stretched all the way to Avenue P, then wrapped around the corner and kept on growing for several more basketball court lengths of schoolyard fence. People stood and leaned, some sipping coffee or nosing through green "Train Operator" study books. 
 Exam No. 2085 is only the fourth most popular test New York City Transit offers, after Bus Operator, Train Conductor and Station Agent. But for reasons that almost certainly include the relative security of a city job in a bad economy, the number of people taking these tests is rising: Approximately 40 percent more people turned out on this day than in January 2000, when the Train Operator test was first offered publicly. Each applicant spent $50 to file for the test back in May, some shelled out another $27 for the study book, and a few, like Mr. Babbitt, spent hundreds on prep courses.
 "It's a good job, good benefits," explained Brandi Reid, 19, echoing the sentiments of many people in line, as she waited with her father, Stanley, who has been a train operator, or, motorman, as everyone still seems to say, for three years. But the appeal of driving the subway is more than monetary.
 "People who grow up in New York taking the train, those people, most of them think about driving it," said a Brooklyn man named Jimmy who was taking the test. Another man spoke proudly of the trains he had taken when growing up in Nigeria, his native country. "My family lived on opposite ends of the country," he said. "I used to travel three days on the train. I would like to drive the subway, too."
 It was already 15 minutes past the time printed on the yellow carbon-copy notices mailed to every exam-taker when the line started inching toward the door. Of course, the yellow notices were already suspect, since they had advised test-takers to go to the Kings Highway station by way of the D or Q trains, and the D train hasn't been running that route since 2001.
 "I can't wait, I can't wait," said Mr. Babbitt, who had been passing the time by describing his favorite train lines (BMT), his favorite subway cars (AB standard and B types), and insisting that he is not a train buff but rather a "train historian" and a member of New York Railroad Enthusiasts, the second largest such group in the city.
 "They just know I'm going to ace this thing," he said of his friends in the group, which meets every fourth Friday at the Masonic Hall on West 23rd Street in Manhattan. "I remember all the equipment. I have super memory on stuff like that."
 Finally, 32 minutes after the scheduled time, the line picked up speed, and test-takers filed through the lobby, past the weathered wood doors and up four flights of stairs to their appointed seats.
 Being a train operator requires mastering a dizzying amount of arcane information, but taking the exam to be a train operator requires only reading some of that information and immediately regurgitating it in multiple-choice format. 
 The test explained, for instance, that a double buzzer sound means that a train is cleared to leave the station. It also outlined permissible excuses for being late to work and the meanings of various radio codes, from A25 ("Emergency") to the more ominous E20 ("Passenger Under Train"). After each nugget of train knowledge, the test then asked, in reading-comprehension format, what the information had been. 
 Aspiring motormen had to evaluate actions like wearing a political button supporting a mayoral candidate while on duty (incorrect) and refusing to talk to a reporter about a passenger accident (correct). Using information provided, they had to select the minimum number of hand brakes needed to secure a 10-car train parked on a grade for more than 30 minutes (five), and the number of R28 subway cars in a train consisting of five two-car units that would extend beyond the end of a 450-foot platform (two). 
 In this way, the exam was both easy and esoteric: highly specific, yet trivially so. If the questions had been about gardening, the same people would have done just as well.
 As people seated in uniform rows of wrap-around desks leafed through their exam booklets, chewed their No. 2 pencils and worked their calculators, proctors moved around, taking fingerprints of each applicant's right hand with ink that left no visible trace on the fingers. In at least one room, test-takers were informed that people who did not submit to fingerprinting would be disqualified and escorted from the exam. Everyone submitted.
 THE exam, which had 70 questions, was scheduled to take three hours, but few people worked through to the final bell. Instead, they trickled out of James Madison and compared pink backup answer sheets covered with penciled letters.
 "Pretty good so far," Geraldine Johnson said to her friends as they matched answers. The three of them grew up in the Marcy projects in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and they were, as they put it, aficionados of the subway system. Ms. Johnson actually worked as a token booth clerk for several years so that she could take the train operator's test, which was closed at the time.
 The Nigerian man emerged with an enormous smile. "It was mostly rhetorical," he said. "Very easy, very easy." At the curbside, a woman and a young boy waited in an idling car to pick up a man, presumably the father. (Boy, excited, from car window: "How'd you do? How'd you do?" Dad, even more excited, opening car door: "Good, good. They gave you the answers.") 
 Mr. Babbitt, however, was a little disappointed. "They didn't have many questions on air brakes," he complained. "Not much about trains specifically, except a few. Some questions stumped me, but once I got down to it, I think I did pretty good." Now all he has to do is wait to see if the city calls, something that could take up to two years. 
 Contented, Mr. Babbitt walked to his car for the drive home. "I would have had to take two buses and a subway," he said, explaining why he hadn't taken mass transit from his home in Sheepshead Bay. "It's a Saturday, and I wanted to get here on time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Being a subway motorman has long had appeal. The operator at left manned the controls in 1924. (Photographs from "The Subway: A Trip Through Time on New York's Rapid Transit" by Stan Fischler H & M Productions, 1997 ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); SCHOOL CHEATING (72%); BASKETBALL (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) Transit Systems; Subways; Labor; Tests and Testing

PERSON: Sam Schechner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); NIGERIA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



203 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Finally, a Few Buyers Are Returning to Antiques

BYLINE:  By BROOK S. MASON

 BODY:
WHEN Frank Partridge packed up his fine 18th-century Georgian chests, Regency tables and Adam mirrors from a fair a few weeks ago at the Park Avenue Armory in Manhattan, he was happier than he had been in a long time. 
 He had sold $1 million in antiques, including a pair of Gainsborough chairs. After a tough time, that number was a good sign. "The tide is turning," said Mr. Partridge, the great-grandson of the founder of the London company Partridge Fine Arts. The company, which is public, had a 50 percent decline in sales in the past two years. 
Antiques dealers have been hit by one blow after another, including a sluggish economy and a travel slowdown that has meant the wealthy aren't going as far to shop. 
 But there are some signs of a turnaround, although only at the highest end of the market. Last week, the architect Thierry W. Despont was surveying a long list of antiques bought for a vast Virginia estate he is designing, complete with hunting lodge. Mr. Despont, who is also working on Bill Gates's immense house in Medina, Wash., says he, too, is seeing tentative signs of a recovery. "Now everything is back on the front burner," said Mr. Despont, who recently returned from visiting a client in Moscow. Among his recent purchases are a Louis XIV porphyry mantel and a Louis XVI Savonnerie carpet. 
 That is a change, he said, from the past few years. After Sept. 11, 2001, he said, three of his clients stopped work on their homes, affecting his purchases. "The first thing to go are the European buying trips where we forage for great antiques," said Mr. Despont, who has an office in TriBeCa. 
 The upturn at the high end mirrors the sales last week of Impressionist and modern paintings at Sotheby's and Christie's in New York. The more pedestrian paintings failed to sell, but buyers rushed toward extraordinary work, which soared in value.
 Still, the global antiques trade is hardly buoyant. Generally, only the exceptional antiques move -- those blessed with impeccable provenance, splendid color and flawless carving. "It's the remarkable examples that are selling," Mr. Partridge said.
 Many antiques dealers are still mired in the slow sales that have been the norm for their business in the last three years. "We're always the first hit in a downturn and the last out," said Gaylord Dillingham, an antiques dealer in San Francisco. 
 Some people worry that sales of antiques are being affected by something that has nothing to do with the economy: changing tastes. "For some, $900,000 Georgian tall chests are no longer de rigueur," said Stephanie Stokes, a Manhattan designer who deals with a wealthy clientele. She said she believed a huge change was occurring, with some clients choosing to replace the traditional signs of wealth with less costly furnishings from the 1940's, or with modern furniture. "Others want fine Queen Anne furniture, but only as accent pieces in an eclectic room environment," Ms. Stokes said. "Few demand a total period look these days."
 Benefiting from that interest in 20th-century furniture is Richard Wright, an auction house owner in Chicago who said he expects his sales to jump to more than $9 million this year from $1.5 million in 2000. Mr. Wright, whose salesroom, wright20, is in the city's meatpacking district, six months ago sold a 1925 Rietveld wood and metal dining room chair for $64,350. It was expected to fetch only $10,000 to $15,000.
 For dealers who sell old-world style and taste, business is still a struggle, even more so in Europe. In France, Herve Aaron, who presides over a gallery on the fashionable Faubourg St.-Honore, says only the real rarities are selling. "The market is not dead, but it hasn't been this bad in decades," Mr. Aaron said. "Across Paris, gallery traffic is down 40 to 50 percent." American tourists are far less common than they were, in part because of the dollar's weakness against the euro and in part because of the attitude of the French government toward the war in Iraq. "Sales have been severely disrupted," Mr. Aaron said. 
 IN London, Jonathan K. Horne, president of the British Antique Dealers' Association, said the war had hurt sales there, too, because travel in general has been down. "The number of American tourists shopping and buying antiques has dropped 50 percent," Mr. Horne said. That is encouraging dealers from London to send their wares to shows in the United States, looking for buyers. 
 For many American companies, having more competition from Europe won't help.
 Like many other dealers, Bernard Karr, who runs Hyde Park Antiques in downtown Manhattan, has seen his sales drop 30 percent over all in the past three years, but even more steeply in the past 12 months. "There are bursts of activity, but in 39 years of doing business, I've never seen it so difficult," said Mr. Karr, who has sold to prestigious museums like the M.H. de Young Memorial Museum in San Francisco.
 Dealers who sell antiques of average price may be suffering most. "The middle market, meaning $2,000 to $5,000 sales, has totally dropped away," said Alastair Crawford, managing director of the Silver Fund, a London-based store with a Madison Avenue outpost, where the price of a 1915 pair of Georg Jensen candelabra is $150,000. "I've had weeks where I've only sold a single silver spoon for $75," Mr. Crawford said.
 Whether antiques are more sensitive to the swings of the economy than standard retail goods is not known, said William N. Goetzmann, an economist at the Yale School of Management who has studied trends in art prices and financial markets going back to 1600. But he points out that the uncertain environment has plagued institutional buyers like museums, a powerful force in the antiques market. 
 The Wall Street slump that started several years ago also had a big effect on buyers of antiques, as jobs were eliminated and bonuses were cut, according to a number of dealers. 
 Meg Wendy, who oversees an empire of 15 antiques shows based in Rye, N.Y., said the number of dealers at her fairs has fallen 30 percent since the summer of 2000. "Many are mom-and-pop operations, and some have gone under," she said. 
 Ms. Wendy has shut down shows in Greenwich, Conn.; Pound Ridge, N.Y.; and Chicago, and instead is focusing on luring European dealers to her New York shows. "They want to come to New York because there is greater opportunity and a stronger market here," she said. 
 The recent strength in the stock market appears to be helping sales in the United States.
 "Perhaps we're on the verge of the market turning," said Mr. Dillingham, the San Francisco dealer. He participated in the San Francisco Fall Antiques Show recently and racked up 11 sales, including a pair of George II chairs for $50,000.
 He is not alone in seeing a glimmer of light.
 "If the uptick in the stock market continues, this area will rebound," said Dr. Goetzmann at Yale.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Like many of his peers in the business, Bernard Karr, who runs Hyde Park Antiques in Manhattan, has seen his overall sales drop sharply in the last three years. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (56%) 

PERSON: BILL GATES (55%) Brook S Mason

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



204 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Peter D. Luke; 
Smith Barney Convertible Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
THE $163 million Smith Barney Convertible fund has benefited from the stock market rally this year, even though the fund doesn't focus on common stocks, says Peter D. Luke, the fund's manager.
 Instead, the fund generally invests in bonds and shares of preferred stock. Both of these provide regular income payments but also have another important characteristic: they can be converted into the common stock of the company that issued them, generally at a fixed price and for a limited period. 
 The prices of some of these convertible bonds and preferred shares are tied closely to price movements in the underlying common stock. Recently, Mr. Luke has been loading up on such securities, which account for about 40 percent of the holdings. 
 "Currently we're more skewed toward the equity-sensitive end of the spectrum," Mr. Luke said from his office in Midtown Manhattan.
 By contrast, some convertible investments are bought mainly for fixed income, and account for less than 20 percent of the fund, compared with nearly 40 percent a year ago. The remaining investments are hybrids, he said -- convertibles whose price movements are buffered by their fixed-income payments.
 Over all, the portfolio investments yielded 4.39 percent as of the end of October, compared with 3.49 percent for the average convertible fund tracked by Morningstar Inc.
 As for total return, the fund's Class A shares gained 4.5 percent a year, on average, for the three years through October, adjusted for its 5 percent maximum front-end sales charge, or load. It ranked among the top 12 percent of convertible funds, which lost an average of 1.2 percent, annualized. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 8.3 percent, on average, according to Morningstar.
 The Class A shares returned 32.1 percent, adjusted for the load, for the 12 months through October, versus 23 percent for the group and 20.8 percent for the S.&P.
 Mr. Luke, 60, is a director of Salomon Brothers Asset Management, the fund's subadviser and an affiliate of Citigroup Asset Management. He uses computer models to review the valuation of convertibles, taking into account factors like current interest rates, the volatility of the underlying stock and the issuers' credit ratings.
 Health care issues, including biotechnology convertibles, are a big stake, accounting for 21 percent of assets, versus 12 percent in the Goldman Sachs/Bloomberg U.S. Convertible 100 index.
 In April, Mr. Luke bought convertible bonds issued by InterMune Inc., a biotechnology company in Brisbane, Calif. The bonds, due in July 2006, have a 5.75 percent coupon and have not been rated by bond rating agencies. He paid $98.31, on average, for each $100 of face value of the bonds, which he views as a hybrid investment. They are now at $96.13. 
 The company's products treat medical conditions, including chronic granulomatous disease, an immune deficiency disorder. InterMune has an attractive product pipeline, he said.
 "The company has more cash than debt," he added, "so we think its credit is solid." 
 MR. LUKE recently added convertible bonds from I2 Technologies of Dallas, a troubled business-to-business software company. The fund first bought the bonds in March 2001; they are unrated, have a coupon of 5.25 percent and are due in December 2006. He paid $77.15, on average, for the entire position; they now trade at $85. Nasdaq delisted the company in May. Its shares trade over the counter at a small fraction of their former price. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the company, which in July restated financial statements through 1998. Mr. Luke said he values the investment for its yield, which he calculates as 14.69 percent, based on his purchase price. 
 Another holding is convertible bonds of Universal Health Services, the hospital company based in King of Prussia, Pa. The fund owns the company's 0.426 percent coupon convertible bonds, which mature in June 2020. Their value has been tied largely to the underlying common stock, Mr. Luke said. 
 Universal Health's annual earnings growth averages 15 to 20 percent, he said. The bonds are rated BBB by S.&.P., an investment grade. The bonds include a put option, which enables investors to redeem them for $54.34 starting in June 2006; this limits the risk of holding the bonds, he said.
 The fund began buying the bonds in January 2001; they have cost an average of $58.20 per $100 in face value. They now trade at $62.50. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter D. Luke at his Midtown Manhattan office. Health care issues, including biotechnology, account for 21 percent of his convertibles fund. (Photo by Alan Chin for The New York Times) Chart: "Smith Barney Convertible"Category: ConvertibleNet assets: $163 millionInception: September 1986Manager: Peter D. Luke since July 2001Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 115% 3-year annualized load-adjusted return through October(Class A shares): 4.5%Category average: 1.2% Sector breakdown Health care: 21%Communications: 7%Consumer: 10%Technology: 21%Other: 25%Financial services: 16% Fees (Class A shares)Front-end load: 5.00%Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.23% (Sources by Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); HEALTH CARE (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (61%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RANKINGS (50%) 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); INTERMUNE INC (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITH BARNEY MUNICIPAL FUND INC (SBT) ; Salomon Smith Barney Inc

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); ITMN (NASDAQ) (61%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Carole Gould; Peter D Luke

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



205 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Cheap Seats at Broad and Wall

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE natives are getting restless at the New York Stock Exchange.
 The price of a seat on the exchange -- actually the cost of a license to do business there -- has fallen by 35 percent since the disclosure of the payment of $139.5 million to Richard A. Grasso, who was forced to resign as the exchange's chief executive. 
 Seat prices have historically been far more volatile than stock prices. They reflect expectations about how healthy the stock market willbe and how successful the exchange will be in getting business and conducting it in a way that will be profitable to the traders. 
 Now there are worries that tougher regulation will send trades to other markets and reduce the profitability of the trades that remain. 
 The latest decline, to $1.3 million when a seat changed hands on Wednesday, presumably does not reflect worries about the health of the stock market. Stock indexes are higher now than they were on Sept. 5, when three Big Board seats were sold for $2 million each.
 The decline in seat prices from the peak, reached in 1999 at $2.65 million, is now 51 percent. Such a fall in stock prices would stun investors. But it is not that unusual for seat prices. 
 From a price of $95,000 in 1906, the value fell 64 percent, to $34,000, by 1914, a period that included three recessions and the start of a world war.
 By 1929, the price had risen to $625,000. It plunged with the crash. But while the stock market hit bottom in 1932, with the Dow Jones industrial average off 89 percent from its peak, the price of a seat did not bottom until 1942, when one traded for $17,000, a decline of 97 percent.
 The stock market boomed in the 1950's and 60's, and the price of a seat climbed back to $515,000 in 1968. But, by 1977, it was down to $35,000, a 93 percent fall that left the value of a Big Board seat worth less than a New York City taxi medallion.
 It was not until 1987, just in time for another crash, that the seat price topped the 1929 record. It lost 78 percent of its value by 1990.
 At a price of $1.3 million today, it is clear that buyers still think that Big Board traders can do well. But they are worried that the glory days may be past. FLOYD NORRIS

GRAPHIC: Chart compares the price of a seat on the New York Stock Exchange (On a logarithmic scale so that comparable percentage changes appear similar) to the price of each seat sold on the New York Stock Exchange since the 1870's. (Source by New York Stock Exchange)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (57%); EXECUTIVES (56%) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Stock Exchange

INDUSTRY:  SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: Richard A Grasso; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



206 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Trends Bode Well For Online Shopping

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
IT'S too soon to call it mature, but online retailing, including online travel, is a $100 billion business. That is 2.3 percent of all retail sales. 
 Anthony Noto, an Internet and entertainment analyst at Goldman Sachs, talked last week about his bullish fundamental outlook for the industry. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 


Q. What have the surviving e-commerce companies learned from their first recession?

A. In the 1999-2000 period, consumer satisfaction with e-commerce was subpar. People went online, shopped and didn't come back, because they didn't meet their expectations. The actual number of people shopping actively online in the U.S. actually declined starting at the end of 2000 and continued to fall through the first half to three-quarters of 2001. Last year, we saw a pickup in growth, and each quarter saw improvement from the previous one.
 These companies were developing a completely new business model, and they had to learn how to improve service. 

Q. You are bullish about the future. Why?

A. Consider: About 65 million households in the U.S. are online today. Between 25 million and 30 million households are buying online. That means we will see about 20 percent to 25 percent growth in e-commerce, driven by these nonshoppers becoming shoppers, as well as those who already buy online and probably will spend more per year.
 Right now, 2.3 percent of all retail sales are done online. Over the next 5 to 10 years, I think online sales could reach at least 10 percent of the total.

Q. Are there underlying fundamental trends that buttress the case?

A. E-commerce is just reaching mass-market penetration in the U.S. Mass market, which represents the largest cohort of potential new adopters, begins at 25 percent of total U.S. households. So I think the secular trend bodes well.
 The second theme is broadband users at home, either through a cable operator or a regional Bell operating-company connector. Our studies show that people spend 30 percent more online when using a broadband connection than a narrowband connection. 
 We estimate broadband will be in 25 million homes by the end of this year, up from 18 million at the end of 2002. That's a 39 percent increase. We think broadband will be in 40 million homes by 2006, if not sooner. 
 The third thing is globalization. 
 Companies like eBay and Amazon.com are generating 35 percent or more of their revenue outside the U.S., which shows that Internet companies have been able to expand much quicker than other retail businesses because they require less physical assets, and also that the value proposition of shopping online has been able to travel. 

Q. What are the potential pitfalls for these companies? Is online security a problem?

A. They are doing a decent job with security. But our study shows it remains a top reason for not shopping online. We can't quantify how big a problem it still is. The only measurement we have is that consumer satisfaction with shopping online has increased by 20 percent in each of the last two years.
 We also debate what a sales tax would do. 
 Today, Internet sales taxes are only charged when the seller has a physical operation in the state where the buyer lives. If I live in Seattle, for example, where Amazon.com is headquartered, and I buy from Amazon, I pay sales tax. But so far there is not a significant difference in consumer behavior between those people who pay the tax and those who don't. 
 The other consideration is international expansion. To date, it has been pretty successful. There is no sign that indicates conditions are different than expectations, but you never know. 

Q. You refer to eBay, InterActiveCorp, Yahoo and Amazon.com as the Big Four. Which do you like now, and why?

A. We have outperform ratings on eBay and InterActive and an in-line rating on Amazon. Yahoo is not rated at this point.
In many ways, eBay is considered a unique business: it is a marketplace. It is starting to generate significant levels of returns on invested capital, as are Yahoo and Amazon.com. And relative to its growth rate, we don't believe the stock is overvalued. It is trading at 1.4 times its growth in earnings. Most best-of-breed companies trade at 1.5 to 2 times their growth rates. 
 Of all the companies on the Internet, InterActive is the most diverse: it has online ticketing, an online dating service, mortgages and real estate as well as pure e-commerce. InterActive's stock is not richly valued at all. One could argue it is actually trading below the market multiple of free cash flow.
 Amazon.com, which will generate about $320 million in free cash this year and another $430 million next year, is richly valued, and we recently suggested investors take profits. Yahoo is the biggest beneficiary of the three themes we talked about earlier. Plus, online advertising is beginning to come back. And the balance sheets at all of these companies are very clean.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Noto 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (92%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BROADBAND (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); RETAILERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (72%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer; Anthony Noto; Kenneth N Gilpin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



207 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2623 words

HEADLINE: Spammers Can Run but They Can't Hide 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL

DATELINE: TAGGS ISLAND, England 

 BODY:
AS Steve Linford walks his German shepherd, Zen, across the gangway from his houseboat into his prim little garden on this small island in the Thames, he hardly looks like a man in a battle over the future of cyberspace. He has a salt-and-pepper beard and a twinkle in his blue eyes, but the effect is more former hippie than Sean Connery. 
 After Zen gives a good bark at the ducks, the two return to the boat, and Mr. Linford climbs a spiral staircase into a sunny home office with nine computer screens piled on a black desk. This is the unlikely command center for the Spamhaus Project, one of the leading groups that is trying to make the world safe from junk e-mail. 
 As a cause, stopping spam may not be as urgent as, say, curing AIDS. Yet thousands of activists, of whom Mr. Linford may be the most visible, have mobilized to fight it. 
 By some counts, spam is now as much as 80 percent of all e-mail. It is a drag on human endeavor, in the sense that people collectively spend billions of seconds each day opening, puzzling over, complaining about and deleting messages from charlatans and pornographers -- and, yes, legitimate if unloved marketers. 
 "E-mail is the most incredible communication vehicle invented, and it is on the verge of being made useless," Mr. Linford said. 
 On the floor of Mr. Linford's houseboat office, near the Hampton Court palace of Henry VIII, just south of London, is a cube-shaped Apple computer that is the nerve center of Spamhaus, controlling servers on five continents. In its database are dossiers on the 200 most prolific spammers and the addresses of the 8,000 computers they use to inundate people with ads. Spamhaus makes the list available to Internet service providers, which use the information to weed spam from the e-mail boxes of 160 million users. 
 Those lists are compiled by Mr. Linford and 15 volunteers, many of whom work for Internet service providers. Some members of the group do detective work, tracking down the spammers from telltale clues they leave in their e-mail. Others assemble this evidence to try to persuade the service providers to kick spammers off their networks. One Spamhaus member, a Southern California woman who goes by the online name "Shiksaa," chats online with the spammers, pumping them for information and trying to pull them away from the dark side.
 "They are kind of like the X-men," said Matt Sergeant, director of anti-spam technology at MessageLabs, an e-mail security firm in Britain that works with Spamhaus. "Each one has their specialist powers."
 Spamhaus plays up the comic-book theme a bit. The main screen of its internal computer network is emblazoned with Spider-Man's slogan: "With great power comes great responsibility."
 Not everyone sees Mr. Linford as a hero. Most of the marketers that are his targets say they don't send spam; they call Mr. Linford a vigilante. And the Internet companies he pressures to stop doing business with spammers say he sometimes pushes too hard. He is known to have blocked the e-mail of Internet service executives he thinks aren't kicking off spammers fast enough -- a method that often wins results, if not friends.
 Yet Mr. Linford, 46, has earned the respect of most Internet service providers -- even those with whom he has had run-ins -- as the best source of information about spammers. 
 "Spamhaus is the only clearinghouse for information on the spammers themselves, and for that it is invaluable," said Laura Atkins, who runs Word to the Wise, an e-mail consulting firm in San Carlos, Calif. "Any time one of my clients has ended up on their list it is because someone received mail they didn't ask for."
 Mr. Linford has focused on making his list of spammers reliable enough for big companies to trust. He publishes his e-mail address and phone number and responds to complaints that listings are incorrect. 
 That is in sharp contrast to other spam-blocking lists, which are often run anonymously and, at times, recklessly. Some block the mail of innocent Internet users to create pressure on the Internet provider to kick off spammers.
 For now, sending unsolicited e-mail isn't illegal in the United States, but it has just been prohibited by the European Union. Most Internet providers have policies that ban spam from their networks; some providers have sued spammers, contending that tactics used to avoid detection are illegal.
 Mr. Linford says he has intercepted chat-room conversations between spammers and crackers, the name for malicious hackers who write computer viruses and steal credit card numbers. The spammers have been seeking ways to send their messages to avoid the blocking systems created by Internet providers.
 "In the last six months, the cracker world has joined the spammer world," Mr. Linford said. 
 Aided by crackers, the spammers have secretly infected and taken control of thousands of computers around the world, most of them owned by home users with high-speed Internet connections.
 These machines -- called zombie drones -- relay mail for spammers and serve as hosts for the Web sites where people are sent by spam, all without the computer owner's knowledge.
 Since last June, zombie drones have also been subjecting Spamhaus to what is called a distributed denial-of-service attack, perhaps the most virulent weapon in a hacker's arsenal. 
 Tens of thousands of enemy machines have simultaneously deluged Spamhaus's computers with so much meaningless data that they can barely perform their intended missions. Similar attacks have put several smaller anti-spam organizations out of business. 
This month, the crackers took the attack to a new level: they released two computer viruses that have already spread to hundreds of thousands of machines. The purpose was to attack Spamhaus and two similar groups.
 "For the spammers to actually manufacture and release a worldwide virus specifically to attack you, you're probably making quite some impact on them," Mr. Linford said.
 HOW did Mr. Linford end up as an avenging angel of cyberspace? 
 Discouraged by the economic stagnation of England in the 1950's, Mr. Linford's parents moved to Rome, where his father ran a factory that made industrial platinum. Steve Linford dropped out of a college photography program, bought a motor home, parked it on beaches and played his guitar in coffee shops for money. He eventually met Ennio Morricone, the legendary Italian film composer. (Mr. Linford can be heard singing on the soundtrack for "Copkiller," a 1983 Italian film starring Harvey Keitel.)
 Mr. Linford later became a road manager for acts like Pink Floyd and Michael Jackson when they toured Italy. As he saw technology embrace music production, Mr. Linford became enamored with computers. In 1986, he drove the motor home back to London and started a company devoted to putting musical tours online. It flopped, but he did start a Web page design and hosting business, called Ultradesign Internet. It was there that he had his first run-ins with spam.
Mr. Linford's initial reaction to spam was similar to that of countless others. Outraged, he asked the senders to remove him -- and his clients -- from their lists. Getting no response, he turned to the Internet providers. After he failed to get results there, an activist was born.
 Mr. Linford found the central meeting place for the anti-spam activists -- an Internet newsgroup that is called Nanae, for news.admin.net-abuse.email. Like many other news groups, Nanae (pronounced nah-NAY) is a boisterous place, where information about fighting spam is interposed with rather pointed insults of spammers and their allies. 
 "Nanae is a very angry crowd," Mr. Linford said. "They shout a lot because they feel powerless."
 Mr. Linford, however, felt anything but powerless. In 1997, he created a series of sophisticated Web sites with tools to help spam fighters, databases of people selling software for use in sending spam, and assistance for people who wanted to write to an Internet service provider to complain about spam. 
 Because he owned an Internet company, Mr. Linford encouraged activists to use far more moderate language, without the typical threats and demands. In 1998, he started what would become his main site: Spamhaus.org, a clearinghouse for information on the organizations behind most of the spam. Meanwhile, Paul Vixie, the pioneering Internet software developer in Redwood City, Calif., had formed the Mail Abuse Prevention Service, creator of the Realtime Blackhole List. That was the first list to block Internet addresses known as sources of spam. But that effort became bogged down, both by lawsuits and internal bickering. 
 So Mr. Linford created his own list, the Spamhaus Block List, devoted to addresses used by spammers. He says it is used by Internet providers that serve 160 million e-mail users. 
 That count is impossible to verify. In the United States, the list is not used by the biggest providers, like America Online and Microsoft's Hotmail. But it is used by the next tier of providers, including the Road Runner high-speed service, from Time Warner, and the NetZero and Juno services, from United Online. Smaller organizations that cannot afford commercial anti-spam services also depend on the list.
 Spamhaus takes no money for its services, and the computers it uses to host the service are donated. So far, Mr. Linford has paid all of the direct costs, about $25,000 a year, using money from Ultradesign, the company he still owns and runs. 
 That will have to change, he acknowledged. He and some of his volunteers have outstanding legal bills from defending a lawsuit, now dismissed, brought by a group of Florida e-mail marketers. He has asked the British government for a grant, but has not received one. Whatever the source of funds, he says he hopes that access to his services will remain free.
 JUST as people talk about their ailments when they meet doctors, people can't wait to show Steve Linford their spam. 
 A visitor shows him one for "superviagra." Mr. Linford ignores the return address, which the spammer made up. But he looks closely at the address of the Web site being advertised. Fingers flying, he looks up the site in the "whois," the database that links domain names to Internet protocol numbers, the unique address of each computer on the Internet. 
 Mr. Linford then looks up the number in Spamhaus's block list. 
 Pay dirt. The site is operated by Chinanet Chongqing, one of the regional state-owned Chinese Internet providers. According to the block list, it is operated on behalf of Alan Ralsky, an e-mail marketer in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., whom Spamhaus calls the world's No. 1 spammer.
 Mr. Linford looks at a second e-mail message, this one for mortgages. The same drill leads to an Internet site hosted from Brazil. But again, the block list already knows about it.
 "Ah, Ralsky again," Mr. Linford said.
 On its Register of Known Spam Operations, or Rokso, Spamhaus describes Mr. Ralsky as "one of the bigger spam houses on the Internet with a gang of fellow morally challenged types working with him." The files include state records of Ralsky's run-ins with the law, newspaper articles about him, and long lists of aliases and Web sites he supposedly has used.
 Mr. Ralsky, in a telephone interview last week, said of Mr. Linford: "He is so far off base on me he has no clue." Mr. Ralsky said he sold travel and other products but did not handle "super Viagra." 
 I don't see where he's coming from," Mr. Ralsky added. "All we are doing is selling products. I don't understand why I don't have the right to make a living." 
 Mr. Linford, of course, disputes this, saying that his investigators have traced the Internet domains used in these spam messages to companies controlled by Mr. Ralsky.
 At its peak last year, the Spamhaus Block List was catching as much as half of the spam at many of the providers that used it, according to Mr. Linford and Internet services. But its effectiveness has fallen sharply as spammers use zombie drones and other techniques to hide their tracks. Many Internet providers now say the list is catching less than 10 percent of the spam. But there are other block lists, focusing on identifying purloined computers, that are now much more effective in keeping spam out of inboxes. 
 Eliminating these zombie drones has become a major headache for providers of high-speed Internet service. They must call users, explain that their computers have been secretly invaded and talk them through the extensive steps required to remove the problem. 
 Even though Mr. Linford's block list is faltering, his database of spammersremains a potent force in the fight against spam. Many Internet service providers still check regularly with Rokso to vet potential customers before they open accounts. And they monitor the block list to see which spammers have appeared on their networks. 
 Mr. Linford said some of the big American service providers, like Qwest and Sprint, now respond quickly to cut off spammers named by Spamhaus. Others take more persuading. For example, Spamhaus complained for months to Cogent Communications that Eddy Marin, one of the perennial top spammers in Rokso, was using its network. Cogent finally cut off Mr. Marin's account late last month. A spokesman for Mr. Marin said Cogent's action was not justified.
 As for Cogent, Michael Hammons, the company's senior director for operations, said Spamhaus often pressed it to cut off customers based on what he saw as flimsy evidence.
"I'm concerned that we should find customers guilty by association or alleged association," he said. "They may give us a warning to say you will have problems with this customer, but we can't do anything until we actually do have problems."
 Mr. Hammons added that Cogent found the information from Spamhaus to be more credible than that from any other anti-spam group.
 NOW, Spamhaus is trying to win over Internet providers around the world, especially in China, which has become the headquarters of choice for many spammers. Spamhaus has blocked the corporate e-mail of Chinanet-Shanghai, one of several state-owned Internet providers. In response, the company created a department to look for spammers.
 "We don't like to see that we are blacklisted," wrote Lin Chen, an administrator at Chinanet-Shanghai, in an e-mail interview. He called the blocking actions of anti-spam groups "functional and effective." Spamhaus, he wrote, promptly removed the block when the spammers were cut off. 
 Despite efforts by Spamhaus and others, the volume of spam appears to be increasing. Spamhaus's campaign is futile, said Scott Richter, president of OptinRealBig, an e-mail marketing company in Westminster, Colo., which is on the Rokso list.
 "All they are doing is making the problem 10 times worse," said Mr. Richter, who says he sends e-mail messages that are requested, not spam. "The spammers are learning to do stuff that can't be caught. If they get kicked off a Chinese I.S.P. they open the next day at a Korean one, who never had a way to get that sort of customer before." 
 Mr. Linford said he believed that spammers could be contained, if not eliminated. A tough new anti-spam law in Europe will help, he said. The proposed Can-Spam act in the United States, he said, is not tough enough, but he figures that when it fails to work, Congress will have to make a stronger law. But Mr. Linford gloomily predicts that spammers will simply move more of their operations to Asia and Latin America.
 As for Mr. Linford, he plans to move his home, business and Spamhaus to a 70-foot yacht that will travel, cove to cove, across the Adriatic. 
 But spammers had better not relax. With superfast satellite connections, he plans to hunt them down from the high seas. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Linford heads the Spamhaus Project, which fights unwanted e-mail, from his houseboat near London. (Photo by Steve Forrest/Insight-Visual, for The New York Times)(pg. 1); With the help of volunteers and donated computers, Steve Linford compiles lists of the busiest senders of spam, for use by Internet providers. (Photo by Steve Forrest/Insight-Visual, for The New York Times)(pg. 10) Chart: "They've Got Mail"The 10 most prolific spammers worldwide in November 2003, according to the Spamhaus Project. 1. Alan RalskyBASED IN: MichiganCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: Creative Marketing Zone 2. Eddy MarinBASED IN: FloridaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: OneRoute 3. Thomas CowlesBASED IN: UtahCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: Empire Towers 4. John HitesBASED IN: FloridaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: Advertising International 5. Chris SmithBASED IN: MinnesotaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: rizler.com 6. Damon DeCrescenzoBASED IN: FloridaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: Docdrugs / Pinnacle Meds 7. Daniel IvansBASED IN: OhioCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: isolate.net 8. Erb AvoreBASED IN: AlabamaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: IC Marketing 9. Eric ReinertsenBASED IN: FloridaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: DataStreamGroup 10. Gaven StubberfieldBASED IN: North CarolinaCOMPANY/AFFILIATION: Vanderbilt International (Source by Spamhaus)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (92%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); DOGS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (67%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%) 

ORGANIZATION: Spamhaus Project (Orgn)

PERSON: Steve Linford; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) ENGLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



208 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Winners and Losers, Economically Speaking 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
THE rest of the United States is starting to look a lot more like Montana.
 With economic growth recently reaching its fastest quarterly pace since 1984 and companies adding jobs last month, the recovery seems more solid than it has at anyother point in the last two years. 
That could eventually translate into broad increases in income and health insurance coverage and a decline in poverty. 
For Montana, however, those trends would be nothing new, according to an analysis by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. of the varying effects that the long period of economic weakness has had on the 50 states and the District of Columbia. 
 Since 2000, no state looks better than Montana. Like New Mexico and Wyoming, which also did relatively well, Montana was helped by its dependence on the mining and natural resources industries, which fared better than most sectors, said James Diffley, an economist at Global Insight, a research company.
 In fact, Montana was the only state where economic conditions have improved over the last three years, according to the A.F.L. -C.I.O., the umbrella labor group, which based its ranking on jobs, income, poverty, health care coverage and bankruptcy filings. The study examined the change in a state's economic situation, not in its absolute condition. 
 Other states in the top 10 included New Jersey, which benefited from the continued growth of health care companies, and Louisiana and Oklahoma, which depend on the energy industry.
 Many of the states that have suffered the most are in the Midwest and Southeast, the nation's manufacturing centers. North Carolina fared the worst, followed by Mississippi and Michigan. States with large technology sectors, like Colorado, Oregon and Texas, have also struggled. California, home to Silicon Valley, fared better than those states because of its diversified economy. DAVID LEONHARDT

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart shows change in economic conditions since the end of 2000 based on six factors*. (*Employment, unemployment rate, poverty rate, health care coverage, median household income and personal bankruptcy filings.)(Source by A.F.L.-C.I.O.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); POVERTY RATES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RANKINGS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%) 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Montana

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



209 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: CASUALTIES; 
Lucky Break for Soldiers Heading Home From Iraq Turns to Heartbreak for Families

BYLINE:  By MONICA DAVEY; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ariel Hart, Margo Rutledge Kissell, Neal Matthews, Jonathan Miller, Mindy Sink and Stacey Stowe.

 BODY:
For the six months that Specialist Brian H. Penisten of the Army was gone, he tried to convince his fiancee that he was relatively protected, repairing military vehicles on a tightly secured air base in Iraq, far enough away from the bullets and bombs.
 Then he told her he was coming home. He had managed to get a rest and relaxation break, so, at least for two weeks, she really could be certain he was safe. It would also be enough time for the simple marriage ceremony they planned to hold in their Colorado apartment this past Friday. The justice of the peace had agreed to come by, the Champagne was chilling, the carpet was cleaned. 
 Five hours before Specialist Penisten, 28, boarded a Chinook helicopter to begin making his way back to Pueblo, his fiancee, Johnna M. Loia, recalled last week, he called to let her know he was on his way, and to remind her how close they were to their future. "I love you, Mrs. Penisten," he said as he hung up. 
When a missile struck the Chinooklast Sunday, 16 military personnel, Specialist Penisten among them, were killed and more than 20 others were wounded, making it the deadliest single incident for American forces since President Bush declared that major combat in Iraq was over on May 1. For some families of those killed, the graveness of the loss was deepened by a knowledge that their soldier had been on the way home. 
"After he called, I was actually counting down with my friend just how long it would be until he got to the front door," said Ms. Loia, 25. "I was so excited. I even started looking again at TV -- at all the crazy things that were happening in Iraq -- because I knew that he wouldn't have to deal with all that. I knew he was out. He was so close to being out."
For others, though, the circumstances brought a small edge of comfort to the gloom: their soldiers had not been stranded on some terrifying military mission; they would have had cheery thoughts, these relatives reasoned, for most of the final hours.
Sgt. Keelan L. Moss, 23, had called his wife at Fort Sill, Okla., in the middle of the night, the night before the helicopter took off, his mother, Velma Deawayne, said. He could not sleep, he said. He was too excited to get home, too ready for the next day to come. His family, which had gathered from Houston and elsewhere, planned to hold Thanksgiving dinner, weeks before the rest of the nation, as soon as he arrived.
"It almost makes it harder, just to know that he was almost here, but at least I know that he was happy," Ms. Deawayne said on Friday. "He was coming home to his family, so I know that's how he was feeling that day, so excited, so happy. I'm O.K. with that. And he is home, I guess."
Being chosen to go home, to get away from the violence, if just for a short visit, is highly coveted among the American soldiers in Iraq. Since the military began offering furloughs in September, as a "sanity check" for weary soldiers, most everyone wants one. And priority, the soldiers say, has gone to those considered most in need -- with some major event in life happening back at home, a baby's due date or a wedding.
So most of the men and women boarding the Chinook that day were considered the fortunate ones, and they knew it.
Staff Sgt. Paul Anthony Velazquez, 29, was going home to Fort Sill, to his new baby, born in June. He had a photograph, his mother said, but he had never gotten to see or touch the child -- the third in the growing family he was supporting.
His mother, Mary Elizabeth, said Sergeant Velazquez signed up for the Army right after high school graduation in San Diego more than a decade ago, and stayed in, even as new terror threats mounted for the United States. "He didn't feel he'd be able to find a job in this economy if he got out," she said.
Pfc. Anthony D. D'Agostino was going home to Waterbury, Conn., to celebrate his 21st birthday, which would have come the Thursday after the helicopter went down. Some of his buddies had an outing planned for him, said Harry Owens, whose daughter, Amanda, had been engaged to marry Private D'Agostino.
Not all the soldiers were going home for giddy reunions. Sgt. Ernest G. Bucklew, 33, needed to get back to Enon Valley, Pa., for the funeral of his mother, Mary Ellen, who had died unexpectedly. Now the family would conduct two funerals.
And for many of the rest, like Staff Sgt. Joe N. Wilson, 30, of Crystal Springs, Miss., there was no single, defining event to attend. No wedding, no funeral. Just the prospect of two full weeks away from the desert and the dangers, and surrounded by doting family members. "Everybody was looking for him to come home," said Thomas Wilson, Sergeant Wilson's uncle.
Likewise, Specialist Darius T. Jennings, 22, was to return to Cordova, S.C. Instead, his tiny community was mourning their third military loss in Iraq. Three graduates of Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School, a school of 1,800, have perished there since late August.
A few families did not know their soldiers had furloughs. The soldiers had planned to surprise them. So when news organizations began broadcasting reports of a helicopter crash, they had no reason, yet, to believe their own would be anywhere near. And when the news finally came, the surprise was crushing.
Pfc. Karina S. Lau, 20, had told only her siblings that she was on her way home to Livingston, Calif. She wanted to see her parents' thrilled faces.
"She thought it would be a big surprise for us," her mother, Ruth, said sadly on Friday. "Never, never did she mention this. We were thinking that she was in a safe place over there."
Her daughter had joined the military nearly two years earlier, but her love, her mother said, was of singing and playing the clarinet. She was a perfectionist. She fought for higher grades in high school. "She wanted to be famous, to act and sing on Broadway some day," Ruth Lau, her mother, said.
In Newark, Sgt. Joel Perez's wife, Milagros, knew nothing of her husband's furlough plans either, family members said. Sergeant Perez, 25, told his parents that he was coming, but said he did not want to get his wife's hopes up just in case the furlough was canceled at the last moment.
Instead, he hoped to surprise his wife and toddler daughter, Jaileen, in honor of the couple's third wedding anniversary, his mother, Luisa Mangual, said. That would have been last Monday.
Sergeant Perez enlisted in 1998, and told his mother he loved the Army. She was more reluctant than he was, and even more nervous when he told her about what he was seeing in Iraq. The attacks were constant, he told her. Even the children had weapons. But he also said he would be home soon.
Sergeant Perez had grown up in Newark and Puerto Rico, where another soldier killed in the helicopter incident was from. That soldier was Specialist Frances M. Vega, 20, whose home was at Fort Buchanan in Puerto Rico, Army officials said.
For others on the helicopter, the plans had been sudden and unexpected. They were granted rest and relaxation at the last moment, and now, their families could not help but look back and wonder why their soldier had to be so lucky, and so terribly unlucky, as to somehow get on that flight. In a twisted-up way, being back on the ground in Iraq suddenly looked safe.
"They had turned him down for it, but apparently when they increased the number, he got in," Erma Pennanen said of her son, Sgt. Ross A. Pennanen, 36, of Lawton, Okla.
"He shouldn't have been on that helicopter," she said. "He wasn't due for R and R. What was he doing on the helicopter instead of in a tank?"
Sgt. Steven D. Conover, 21, of Wilmington, Ohio, had also been turned down for leave at first, his stepfather, Michael Earley said. But then he called back, Mr. Earley said, and reported that he would be coming after all. He wanted to fish with his older brother, he told them, and hunt with his grandfather.
Mr. Earley said he asked his stepson why he could not simply drive to the airport in Baghdad, not far from where he was. "He said it was far too dangerous, that's why they were taking helicopters," Mr. Earley recalled.
Staff Sgt. Daniel Aaron Bader, 28, of Colorado Springs had told his wife, Tiffany, about the possibility of a break a month ago. Then he called suddenly just over a week ago and said he was coming home, but had no exact date. "Obviously, my husband got on the wrong plane," Tiffany Bader said. They have a young daughter and had planned to talk during the furlough about whether to have a second one, Mrs. Bader said.
Not everyone on the helicopter was headed home. For two pilots and the crew, this was their daily work in Iraq.
First Lt. Brian D. Slavenas, 30, of Genoa, Ill., and Chief Warrant Officer Bruce A. Smith, 41, of West Liberty, Iowa, were piloting the helicopter. Both men died, as did Sgt. Paul F. Fisher, 39, of Marion, Iowa, who was a flight engineer on the aircraft that day, and survived until Thursday in a hospital.
Mr. Smith had spent his time in Iraq transporting troops, prisoners, food, equipment, and at one point, even, a huge cache of money that was found, his wife, Oliva, said on Friday.
He loved to fly. And he was a stickler at it, she said. He was precise and picky. For years, when the couple would go for a drive or to run errands, he would make her quiz him on a set index cards he kept in the car of the emergency procedures on the Chinook. That morning in the cockpit, as every time he got into a cockpit, Ms. Smith said, her husband would have been "all business." Even though the crowd he was carrying was cheery, knowing they were on their way home, she said, he would have been serious and focused as usual. He was known, loved and also gently teased, for that trait. "This was a man who ironed his T-shirts," Ms. Smith said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven D. Conover; Ross A. Pennanen; Joe N. Wilson; Paul Anthony Velazquez; Frances M. Vega; Bruce A. Smith; Brian D. Slavenas; Joel Perez; Brian H. Penisten; Karina S. Lau; Darius T. Jennings; Paul F. Fisher; Ernest G. Bucklew; Anthony D. D'Agostino; Daniel A. Bader; Keelan L. Moss 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); MARRIAGE (75%); HELICOPTERS (74%); THANKSGIVING (50%) United States International Relations; Helicopters; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Monica Davey; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



210 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Sri Lankan President Makes Bid for Power 

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: COLOMBO, Sri Lanka, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
A decade ago, her meteoric 18-month rise from private citizen to prime minister and then president was in some ways predictable, if in other ways astonishing. 
 President Chandrika Kumaratunga's mother and father had both served as prime minister, making her the heir to a dynasty that ranks with those of the Gandhis of India and Bhuttos of Pakistan. Her father and her husband were assassinated, giving her an emotional bond with the tens of thousands of families who have lost loved ones to the political violence that has ravaged this tear-shaped island of 19 million people. 
 Further, she talked of making peace with ethnic Tamil separatists, locked in an intractable conflict with the government. 
"She would address a rally of 50,000 people as if she were addressing a seminar -- very matter-of-fact, you don't scream," said Prof. Jayadeva Uyangoda, head of the political science department at the University of Colombo. "People saw something fresh in that style. She was not a run-of-the-mill politician." 
But this week, former supporters and advisers are asking what went wrong with the woman who has been Sri Lanka's president since 1994. According to her critics, a magnetic leader who once represented this nation's new hope is now reinforcing its culture of political retribution and risking the resumption of a 20-year civil war that has killed 64,000 people. In what is seen as the largest gamble of her political life, she is using measures considered extraordinary, even by the ferocious standards of South Asian politics, in a power struggle with her bitter rival and former childhood family friend, Ranil Wickremesinghe, Sri Lanka's technocrat prime minister. 
On Tuesday, Ms. Kumaratunga, 58, suspended Parliament, took control of the powerful ministries of defense, the interior and communications and dispatched a small number of troops to guard crucial government institutions. On Wednesday, she declared a state of emergency that gave her sweeping powers. 
On Friday, she backed down somewhat, canceling the state of emergency and calling on all political parties to form a government of "national reconciliation" with her. 
The steps have been called blunt and ill timed. The president acted when the prime minister was in Washington meeting President Bush and other American officials. He returned to Colombo on Friday to huge crowds of well-wishers. 
Ms. Kumaratunga has said national security concerns prompted her to act. She accuses the prime minister of recklessly appeasing the rebels during peace negotiations. Both leaders were popularly elected, but the president wields far more power. 
Daya Major, a spokesman for the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, said the group was concerned that Ms. Kumuratunga could try to spark a clash that would end the island's 20-month cease-fire. 
"She is jeopardizing the peace process," he said. 
Supporters of the president say she is preventing a weak prime minister from granting the rebels a de facto state and dividing Sri Lanka. The Tigers have been declared a terrorist organization by the United States and are considered one of the world's most secretive and brutal guerrilla groups. 
But opponents say she is desperate, angry and watching her power erode. The peace mantle on which she rode to office has shifted to the prime minister. After contracting under her government, the economy was projected to grow by 5.5 percent this year, under her rival, Mr. Wickremesinghe. When her term ends in 2005, the Constitution bars her from running again for president. 
Professor Uyangoda, who served as an informal adviser to the president during 1995 peace negotiations, said some of her frustration was justified. For years, supporters of Mr. Wickremesinghe's party have belittled and trivialized the president in newspaper columns that gossip about her love life and what she eats and drinks. "It's basically a power struggle," he said.
Eric Fernando, the president's spokesman, said that was true in part. "At times, she does feel marginalized and trivialized," he said. "But jeopardizing national security has been her main concern." 
Stubborn, combative and powerfully charismatic when she wants to be, Ms. Kumaratunga was 14 and in a class in convent school in 1959 when her father was murdered, in the country's first major political killing. Thousands would follow. In 1988, she was 42 and the mother of a young boy and girl when she stood on her doorstep and watched a political rival shoot and kill her husband, a film star and rising politician. 
After she took office as president in 1994, her hopes of a peace settlement with the rebels faded when they sank two government warships during talks. She then unleashed what she called "war for peace." 
Four years and thousands of lives later, she narrowly escaped an assassination attempt by a female Tamil suicide bomber. Days later, she was elected with 51 percent of the vote. The war continued. 
In a crushing defeat in 2001, the United National Party of Mr. Wickremesinghe beat Ms. Kumaratunga's party, People's Alliance, in parliamentary elections. Her rival, the nephew of a former president, won with a platform promising peace talks with the Tamil separatists. 
Negotiations that began after a cease-fire was signed in February 2002 stalled in April. Last week, the Tigers offered a proposal that would give them sweeping powers of self-rule but not official independence. 
Mr. Fernando said the proposal showed that the prime minister was being too soft on the rebels. "We haven't seen many concessions from the other side," he said. 
A showdown over who controls Parliament is expected when the body reconvenes in two weeks. The prime minister's coalition held a two-vote majority, but he says the president's actions have increased his strength. 
Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, executive director of the nonprofit Center for Policy Alternatives, said he believed that the president had hoped to lure away a few members of her rival's governing coalition to form a government. But the prime minister's coalition appeared to hold firm. 
A member of the president's party who had close ties with her in the past and spoke on condition of anonymity summed up her actions this way: "It's both brilliant and madness," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sri Lankan president, Chandrika Kumaratunga, left, has criticized Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, above, over his handling of talks with Tamil rebels. Mr. Wickremesinghe was greeted by crowds on Friday upon his return from a meeting in the United States with President Bush. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Reuters) Map of Sri Lanka highlighting Colombo: Sri Lanka is in the midst of a political power struggle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PEACE PROCESS (86%); ASSASSINATION (78%); FAMILY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%) Politics and Government; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare ; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David Rohde; Chandrika (Pres) Kumaratunga; Ranil (Prime Min) Wickremesinghe

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (93%) SRI LANKA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (77%) Sri Lanka; Sri Lanka

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



211 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1982 words

HEADLINE: Going Beyond Black and White, Hispanics in Census Pick 'Other' 

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Patria Rodriguez, an advertising sales director for a women's magazine in New York, takes after her father. With light brown skin and thick, curly hair, she says she resembles the actress Rosie Perez, but some people have asked her if she is Italian, and others have told her she looks like the singer Sade.
 Like many Hispanic Americans, Ms. Rodriguez does not think of herself as black or white. "I acknowledge I have both black and white ancestry in me, but I choose to label myself in nonracial terms: Latina. Hispanic. Puerto Rican. Nuyorican," Ms. Rodriguez, 31, said. "I feel that being Latina implies mixed racial heritage, and I wish more people knew that. Why should I have to choose?" 
 As the Hispanic population booms, the fluid ways that she and other Latinos view their racial identities are drawing more attention and fueling the national debate over racial classifications -- what they mean, what they should be and whether they are needed at all. 
Now members of the United States' largest minority group, the nation's 38.8 million Hispanics, nearly half of them immigrants, harbor notions of race that are as varied as their Spanish and that often clash with the more bipolar views of many other Americans. 
White? Black? Try "moreno," "trigueno" or "indio," terms that indicate skin shades and ancestry and accommodate several hues.
This heterogeneity has stumped the Census Bureau. In its 2000 count, almost half the Hispanic respondents refused to identify themselves by any of the five standard racial categories on the census forms: white, black, Asian, American Indian or Alaska native and a category that includes natives of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. The agency has since been surveying Hispanics to find a way to pinpoint them racially.
In the census, respondents can mark their ethnicity as Hispanic, but then they are asked to choose a racial label. In 2000, almost half of the Hispanic respondents, 48 percent, identified themselves as white. Only 2 percent chose black.
But from the light-complexioned to the dark, more than 14 million, or more than 42 percent of all Latino respondents, marked the box labeled "some other race" and wrote in such disparate identities as Mayan, Tejano and mestizo. (An additional 6 percent said they were members of two or more races.)
The category "some other race" was used almost exclusively by Hispanics; of all those who chose it, 97 percent were Latino. Claudette Bennett, chief of the Census Bureau's racial-statistics branch, said follow-up research showed that a large portion of these respondents wanted Hispanic to be considered their race.
A recent study by the Lewis Mumford Center for Comparative Urban and Regional Research at the State University of New York at Albany noted that the popularity of the "some other race" category came at the expense of the "white" category, which was the choice of the majority of Latino respondents in 1980.
"There may have been a sense that being white was part of the process of being assimilated," said John R. Logan, Mumford's director. "There's a trend toward rejecting whiteness as a way of expressing success."
"That's the big change over time. There's a Latino identity that's neither white nor black, and it's a positive identity."
While there are clearly white Hispanics and black Hispanics, many more come from racially mixed stock, with white, black and American Indian or other indigenous strains. Even within one family, one sibling may look black by many Americans' standards, another white, and another in between. And factors as disparate as hair texture, education, income and even nationality matter almost as much as skin color in racial self-image. 
Israel Coats, 24, a Dominican who moved to New York when he was 11 and is now studying marketing at Baruch College, is black in physical features and in the way he identifies himself. But in the Dominican Republic, he says, he is called "indio," Indian. That is because even the darkest-skinned Dominican often regards "black" as a synonym for Haitian; the two nations, which share the island of Hispaniola, have a long history of conflict.
Physical appearance is not even a factor in how some Latinos sort themselves into racial categories.
Mario Goderich, 36, a police officer in Miami Beach, Fla., who has light brown hair, green eyes and the white skin of his Puerto Rican mother, identifies himself on the census forms as Hispanic and white. His father, Rene Goderich, 62, also identifies himself as white, even though he describes himself as "jabao," the Cuban term for a light-skinned mulatto.
"Over here there's no 'jabao' or 'mulatto,' so I say white," said the elder Mr. Goderich, who is from Santiago, Cuba, and lives in New Jersey. "We're all mixed."
Ms. Rodriguez, the advertising sales director, said one reason she is uncomfortable picking one race is because the words white and black carry political baggage that she does not feel she shares. "White means mostly privilege and black means overcoming obstacles, a history of civil rights," she said. "As a Latina, I can't try to claim one of these."
Among people of Mexican descent, who make up more than 65 percent of Hispanics in the United States, the racial background includes a strong indigenous influence. Eva Blanco, 32, a college admissions official in San Jose, Calif., said she wished there were a census box labeled "red." 
"In college, a friend would call me a Mayan princess, because I have the nose you see in the pictures of Mayans," she said. "I feel there's nothing that describes my race per se. For the most part, I say I'm Mexican."
Ellis Cose, who examined racial identity in Latin America for his 1997 book, "Color-Blind: Seeing Beyond Race in a Race-Obsessed World," said these malleable views were quickening the pace of a shift in this country that began in the 1960's, after legal segregation ended and intermarriage became more common.
Growing numbers of interracial unions are also making the color line a moving target. By 2000, the census showed, interracial couples, including those in which one person was of Hispanic origin, made up 7 percent of marriages and 13 percent to 15 percent of households with unmarried partners.
"For the first time, the American construct of race is making room for a large group of folks it never made room for before," said Mr. Cose, who is also a contributing editor for Newsweek.
The growing multiracial population has interfered with the government's accounting of people by race and has become one of the top issues of research and debate among scholars. On Labor Day weekend, Harvard University drew more than 1,000 participants to a "color lines" research conference that delved into the implications for a nation where so much depends on racial categorization: antidiscrimination and voting-rights laws, health and educational statistics and social policies like affirmative action.
Joel Perlmann, a senior scholar at the Levy Economics Institute of Bard College who was a co-editor of "The New Race Question," a 2002 book about how the census counts multiracial people, said the changing demographics were casting doubt on the rationale for the categories themselves.
"Where do these categories come from?" he asked. "What are their justification? It helps delegitimize race."
In California, a movement to shelve racial classifications altogether was behind Proposition 54, the unsuccessful measure on last month's recall ballot that sought to halt the collection of most racial and ethnic data by the state government.
One proponent of the measure was Ward Connerly, the black California businessman who led the winning push for laws in California and Washington State that ban the consideration of race in public university admissions, hiring and government contracting. He argues that racial classifications have become so imprecise as to lose all meaning. 
"We ought to be trying to find a better way of detecting discrimination than this crude way," Mr. Connerly said, adding that he planned to bring another version of Propostition 54 to voters.
But many civil rights advocates and government officials counter that racial categories, as imperfect as they may be, are the only way to measure disparities among groups and provide remedies. And they say that the way Hispanics see themselves may ultimately be irrelevant if they are still subject to other people's biases.
Letvia Arza-Goderich, a lawyer in Los Angeles and a cousin of Mr. Goderich, the Miami Beach police officer, said she felt that she was not regarded as white in the United States except among Latinos. Her family left Cuba in the late 1960's, and as a teenager in Wisconsin, Ms. Arza-Goderich said, her white schoolmates regarded her as dark-skinned and used a slur to describe her. It did not matter that she had pale white skin that looked even whiter against her black wavy hair.
"We were Cubans, and that wasn't white," she said. "My answer was, 'Not that it matters, but I'm white just like you because the people I came from were from Spain.' They'd look at you in disbelief.
"If you're Latino, you're not white-white in the eyes of white Americans," Ms. Arza-Goderich said.
Still, white Hispanics are more prosperous than other Latinos, the Mumford Center study found. Hispanics who described themselves as white on the 2000 Census had the highest incomes and the lowest rates of unemployment and poverty, and they tended to live closest to non-Latino whites, the study said. Black Hispanics, who live in neighborhoods that have nearly as many African-Americans as Hispanic residents, the study found, had lower incomes and higher rates of poverty and unemployment than other Hispanic groups. In those ways they were similar to non-Hispanic blacks.
Those who identified themselves as neither white nor black, the study said, were less affluent than white Hispanics but considerably better off than black Hispanics.
Race relations among Latinos, however, are informed by starkly different experiences compared with those between other groups in America. Among Hispanics, skin color still counts, because Latin American countries have caste systems that discriminate against the dark-skinned. But Latin America did not have Jim Crow laws, or their legacy of bitterness.
Even in the United States, Hispanics who complain of discrimination by other Latinos do not cite race as a major factor, said a national survey last year by the Pew Hispanic Center and the Kaiser Family Foundation. Among those who said they were the victims of bias, the survey found, 41 percent attributed it to disparities in income and education and 34 percent to differences in country of origin. Only 8 percent said it was because of skin color, the survey said.
Hispanics, of course, are not the only ones bending racial identity. Matt Kelly, founder of the Mavin Foundation, a national organization based in Seattle that advocates for multiracial Americans, noted thatin the 2000 census, nearly seven million Americans identified themselves as belonging to two or more races, not counting the Latinos who picked "some other race."
And the culture is offering up role models, like Halle Berry and Tiger Woods, who celebrate their multiracial background.
In Los Angeles, where Hispanics are the largest ethnic group, Ms. Arza-Goderich said she and her husband, who is also Cuban, have never discussed with their three sons "whether they are white, or moreno or what," she said. 
"Race takes a back seat to what they listen to on their CD players, what movies they see," she said. "One is into Japanese anime. Another is immersed in rap. Basically it's the ghetto culture, but ghetto doesn't mean poor or deprived, but hip."
Her 16-year-old, Ray, has adopted a hip-hop persona and hangs out with Vietnamese, Indian, Chicano, white and black friends. Ms. Arza-Goderich said most of them had Asian girlfriends. 
"They say they're hot," she explained.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "White means mostly privilege and black means overcoming obstacles, a history of civil rights. As a Latina, I can't try to claim one of these." Patria Rodriguez; "If you're Latino, you're not white white in the eyes of white Americans." Letvia Arza-Goderich (pg. 1); Israel Coats, 24, of New York, says he is regarded as black in this country, but not in the Dominican Republic, where he was born. Eva Blanco, 32, of San Jose, Calif., wishes there were a box on the census form labeled "red." She says there is no category that describes her race. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times); (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 27) Chart:Hispanics identifying themselves: as white.'80: 58%'90: 52%'00: 48% as neither white nor black, but as some other race or more than one race.'80: 38%'90: 43%'00: 49% (Source by Census Bureau data compiled by Queens College Dept. of Sociology)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNICITY (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%) Hispanic-Americans ; Population; Blacks; Race; Hispanic-Americans 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Mireya Navarro

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



212 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Rich Colleges Receiving Richest Share of U.S. Aid 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
If there is any grand, elegant logic behind the federal government's dispersal of more than a billion dollars in college aid, then Maria Hernandez is humble enough to confess that it has escaped her.
 Consider her point. Poverty is hardly a rarity among the students of California State University at Fresno, where she is the director of financial aid. Many come from families working in the fields nearby, on farms where students spend their summer and winter vacations harvesting peaches and sugar beets to stay in school. 
 About three hours and a world away sits Stanford. Far fewer of its students are poor, yet the federal government gives it about 7 times as much money to help each one of them through college under one program, 28 times as much in another and almost 100 times as much in a third, government data show. 
"Pretty sad," if you ask Ms. Hernandez. 
Similar discrepancies emerge across the nation, adhering to a somewhat counterintuitive underlying theme: The federal government typically gives the wealthiest private universities, which often serve the smallest percentage of low-income students, significantly more financial aid money than their struggling counterparts with much greater shares of poor students. 
Brown, for example, got $169.23 for every student who merely applied for financial aid in order to run its low-interest Perkins loan program in the 2000-1 academic year. Dartmouth got $174.88; Stanford, $211.80. But most universities did not get nearly that much: the median for the nation's colleges was $14.38, according to a New York Times analysis of federal data on the more than 4,000 colleges and universities that receive some form of federal aid.
Nearly 200 colleges received less than $3 per applicant for financial aid. The University of Wisconsin at Madison got 21 cents. 
Harvard, Princeton, Yale -- and all the other members of the Ivy League, for that matter -- were also given 5 to 8 times the median to pay their students in work-study jobs. That is money the institutions got directly, to be spent on behalf of needy students. 
And they got 5 to 20 times the median amount of grant money to look after the everyday needs of their poor students, despite having some of the largest endowments in the nation, if not the world. (Harvard and Yale both have endowments of more than $10 billion. Princeton's is $8.7 billion.)
Such disparities have been a sore point among universities for years, leftovers from an era when federal money was given to colleges on an individual, almost negotiable basis. Now, for the first time in more than two decades, the nation's financial aid officers are calling for the imbalances to be wiped away, replaced by a system that steers financial aid toward the universities that poor students actually attend, rather than those with the biggest reputations.
"We're saying, 'Hey, is this really fair?' " said Dallas Martin, president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. "The money ought to follow where the neediest students are. That's the equity piece and that's what's missing."
At first glance, it may seem that some universities receive more money simply because they cost more to attend. But try telling that to Heather McDonnell, director of financial aid at Sarah Lawrence College, which costs just as much as its Ivy League competitors, yet in one category received only a sixth as much money as any of them. 
"It's not even touching reality," Ms. McDonnell said. "It's not even acknowledging any changes in the economy and how my families are doing." 
Even some of the beneficiaries of the imbalance concede that it is not entirely rational, and say they would consent to shedding a few dollars for the sake of parity.
"How could we complain, really?" said Sally C. Donahue, director of financial aid at Harvard College. "We have been very fortunate to receive the money that we have. And the barriers facing low-income students are considerable, so anything increasing their access to college nationally is something we would support wholeheartedly."
As for the origins of the disparities, most veterans of university finance agree that they date back at least to the 1970's, when regional panels of educational experts, not formulas, decided how much colleges would receive. Because each university had to make its own case for the money, those with long histories and a certain financial savoir-faire tended to do particularly well. In fact, the panels were sometimes composed of their peers. 
"If a school was politically savvy and well connected enough, they would end up with the lion's share of the funds," said Ken Redd, research director of the financial aid officers association.
Congress tried to correct the imbalance in 1980, voting to divide the aid according to a "fair share" formula. But that applied only to whatever new money flowed into these programs, guaranteeing that no college would receive less than it was already getting. It is a guarantee that still exists.
The compromise averted a political melee over redistribution, but because spending in these programs has grown relatively slowly in the last 20 years, it did little to eliminate the disparities. Today, about 60 percent of the money is still spent honoring old pledges.
"I wish I had been at the table when the decisions were being made," said JoAnne Boyle, president of Seton Hill University in Pennsylvania. "It just drives me nuts." 
It is the magnitude of the disparities that irks many college officials. At most universities, for example, whenever low-income students get money from the federal government under the Pell grant program, the college receives some, too -- to help the student with tuition, books, housing, meals and so forth. 
For every Pell dollar one of its students received in the 2000-1 academic year (and they could each get up to $4,000), the median college got an extra 7 cents. Harvard got 98 cents. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology got $1.09. Princeton got $1.42. 
At the other end of the scale sit institutions like the City University of New York, which had the most financial aid applicants in the nation that year. It got 4 cents on the dollar. More than 50 colleges got a penny. 
So what does this mean for students? For Princeton in 2000-1, a poor student meant up to $5,680 in extra grant money from the government, money that could have gone toward the student's tuition, room, board or other educational expenses.
The same student would have brought in only $2,000 at Sarah Lawrence, even though its tuition is higher than Princeton's. Sarah Lawrence could have spent its own money making up the difference (although its endowment is less than 1 percent of Princeton's). Or the student could have taken out bigger loans. 
Then there is the money that campuses receive to place students in work-study jobs. For each of its aid applicants, the median college got $87.67 to help pay wages. Yale got $592.75. Duke got $600.28. Columbia got $677.93. But nearly 100 other colleges got less then $20. 
Even under the fairest of systems, college officials say, some protections need to be built in so that low-income students continue to attend elite universities. And given that private colleges typically cost more than twice what public universities do, even after accounting for living expenses, they should usually receive more money, the officials say. But 10 times more than the median? Or 20? 
"The problem is, once people start to see resources start to shift away from them, they do what's necessary to protect their interests," said George Chin, director of financial aid for the City University of New York. 
Indeed, the call for redistribution has put many universities on the defensive, particularly those that worry about doing worse under new rules.
"Any time you talk about reallocating money when there isn't new money, you're going to pit institutions against one another," said Kate Jeffery, director of student financial support for the University of California. In some areas, her campuses do worse than most universities. In others, they do better. "It just doesn't seem appropriate to take it from one school and give it to another," she added.
In fact, few universities seem to know exactly how they would fare under a new system, though the financial aid officers association has a pretty good idea of who would be the big beneficiaries: community colleges and, perhaps most surprisingly, for-profit universities. 
A generation ago, neither kind of institution had the same national presence it does now, and both enroll high percentages of low-income students. These two factors would probably win them a greater share of federal dollars.
The geography of higher education has also changed. Enrollments in Arizona, Texas, Georgia and other states have more than doubled in the last 30 years, while the cluster of Northeastern states that once seemed to anchor higher education have not grown nearly so fast. That, too, could affect where the money goes. 
But, some wonder, at what cost?
"The idea of fairness is certainly a valid one, but there are so many schools below their fair share that any redistribution may have a very negligible impact on their schools," said William Schilling, director of financial aid at the University of Pennsylvania. "But the schools that would lose money would face a major problem."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Hernandez, left, director of financial aid at California State University at Fresno, and a member of her staff, Diahann Hernandez-Gutierrez, with a student. Many Fresno students' families work on nearby farms. (Photo by Gary Kazanjian for The New York Times)(pg. 22) Chart: "Richer School, More Aid"Federal financial aid was higher during the 2000-1 school year for wealthier colleges, which are less likely to have students from low-income homes. National medianApplicants: --Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: $ 14.38WORK-STUDY: $ 87.67For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: $0.07 PrincetonApplicants: 2,228Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 128.13WORK-STUDY: 529.70For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 1.42 DartmouthApplicants: 2,693Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 174.88WORK-STUDY: 429.99For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.92 BrownApplicants: 2,823Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 169.23WORK-STUDY: 466.22For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.76 YaleApplicants: 4,811Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 112.22WORK-STUDY: 592.75For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.72 StanfordApplicants: 4,995Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 211.80WORK-STUDY: 475.09For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.56 HarvardApplicants: 8,399Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 137.61WORK-STUDY: 463.17For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.98 PennsylvaniaApplicants: 9,090Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 77.98WORK-STUDY: 582.00For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.98 SUNY AlbanyApplicants: 10,510Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 3.39WORK-STUDY: 94.55For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.06 Florida StateApplicants: 18,172Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 7.33WORK-STUDY: 66.51For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.04 Arizona StateApplicants: 24,431Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 3.25WORK-STUDY: 86.83For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.10 San Diego StateApplicants: 26,080Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 2.83WORK-STUDY: 73.53For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.06 Ohio StateApplicants: 32,696Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 3.12WORK-STUDY: 119.20For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.07 Penn StateApplicants: 48,187Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 9.95WORK-STUDY: 95.77For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.12 CUNYApplicants: 108,961Amount of per-applicant aid received by colleges for:PERKINS LOANS: 15.98WORK-STUDY: 88.80For each dollar its students got in federal grants, the college got an extra: 0.04 (Source by Analysis of Department of Education data)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); FARM LABOR (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



213 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: Intimate Escapes 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE LYNESS

 BODY:
THOSE of us who are romantic types cling to the fantasy that there are still lovely spots, as yet undiscovered and not too far from home, where we can escape for a quiet weekend in the country. Like M.F.K. Fisher, we'll eat simple but delicious food in sweet local restaurants within walking distance of our charming, inexpensive hotel. 
 I gave up trying to live a romantic life when I realized that it wasn't much fun. You're pining after some guy, traipsing around bleak landscapes looking for a nice hotel, and your luggage is too heavy. After years of experience and plot development, I've figured out that what you want to do is to play at romance. And that requires a lot of practical thinking. 
 Recently, I got some help with the practical part when I ran into marketing on the Web for an area of northeastern Connecticut that has been dubbed "the Quiet Corner." It promises the romantic fantasy: a beautiful, relatively unpopulated area, little traveled by tourists, with historical interest, quaint restaurants and cute bed-and-breakfasts. 
My first stop was the town of Pomfret, and Celebrations Inn, a bed-and-breakfast. A B&B would not have been my first choice - I don't like them as a rule. It's a question of style: I'm looking for a place with a lot of privacy, which B&B's typically don't have. You're in someone's house; they are in fact hosting you and that demands a certain amount of generosity and friendly interaction on the part of both host and guest. Call me curmudgeonly, but I'm usually down on my reserves of both qualities by the time I go on vacation. 
I also want a room with a seating area where I can hang out comfortably with my main squeeze if it rains -- my own room, not the kind of communal area that B&B's usually provide for that purpose. I also want a view of a good enough restaurant within walking distance or in the lodging place itself and some access to the outdoors, perhaps a garden or a deck, or a quiet road nearby for walking. My preference is therefore for a hotel that is small enough to have character, but large enough to house a restaurant. (There is at least one small hotel in the area - the Inn at Woodstock Hill - but by the time I checked in early September, weekends were booked into November.)
Celebrations Inn walks the line quite elegantly between small hotel and B&B with just enough formality to suit me. It is a large, very pink Victorian house on Route 169. There are several rooms; those that I stuck my head into were reasonably large and pretty without being fussy or precious. (Rooms are $125 to $175 a night, double occupancy; there is often a two-night minimum on weekends.) The hosts, Jean and Bill Barton, are friendly and professional, and not intrusive. There is a garden out back with interesting corners to explore. The Bafflin Nature Sanctuary, an Audubon Society Preserve, is a short walk or drive down the road. Most of the trails are about a mile long; the trail we walked, Beaver Pond trail, was a gentle walk through woods and fields, with information about the birds posted along the way. (The inn can give you a trail map).
A few minutes up the road, you can get a friendly lunch or dinner at the Harvest in a large, pretty Colonial house. There are several small dining rooms, including an enclosed porch - ask for a room with a fireplace. The food is continental and Japanese; this unusual combination worked surprisingly well for our dinner here. The gyoza were what you would expect from these dumplings and my sauteed shrimp pasta was well cooked, tasting of garlic, white wine and lemon. A specialty of the restaurant is steaks. 
Also close to the Harvest and Celebrations is the Vanilla Bean Cafe, which is reminiscent of a 60's coffee shop, where Arlo Guthrie might have played. I was in there only for coffee; people have told me that the sandwiches and breakfasts are very good. 
But my favorite place to eat in this area is Sharpe Hill Vineyard, also an easy drive from Pomfret, although a little hard to find. This small restaurant in a faux Colonial barn serves good, solid food and wine in sight of the vineyard. . Meats and fish grilled over a wood fire are delicious here and desserts are beautifully done; or have the cheese plate for dessert with the dregs of your wine. You can do a formal wine tasting -- the vineyard produces eight varieties -- before or after the meal if you like. Or buy wine by the glass during the meal and drink something different with every course. 
I recommend lunch -- I almost always do -- so that you can enjoy the place in the light. After lunch, we came across a trailhead off Route 97, just opposite Kimball Road, marked H.E. Preston Sanctuary Nature Preserve. I didn't have the time to explore the trail that day but I wished that I had; it had a deliciously private feel, as if perhaps no one else had ever been there. A call to the Joshua's Tract Conservation and Historic Trust revealed it to be a one-mile walk through upland meadows and woods.
Later, we drove to the Creamery Brook Bison Farm on Purvis Road in Brooklyn. There is a spectacular view west off Allen Hill Road, near Route 205, but the bison made me sad. I returned to the Quiet Corner for a second time on a prime fall weekend. The area was as trafficked as I think it gets - leaf peepers, of course, and people attending events at a number of private schools in the area. While the area still didn't feel crowded, finding accommodations and making restaurant reservations were more difficult. 
Benefiting from a cancellation, I got a room at the Corttis Inn bed and breakfast, a farmhouse on 900 acres in North Grosvenor Dale, almost to the Massachusetts border. A more traditional B&B, the Corttis Inn is also more intimate than Celebrations. The host, Herb Corttis, is extremely congenial and the rooms are comfortable and inexpensive (for $65, I had my own room and shared a bathroom with a friend, which worked just fine). The inn has a large family suite, as well. The host makes a great breakfast -- not fancy, just really good food. 
On a beautiful fall day, we first explored Bigelow Hollow State Park, a spectacular drive west from the inn, along Route 197. With the exception of the people pulling their boats out of the lake, there was almost no one in the park; we walked a wooded trail around a lake that was with views that reminded me of the Adirondacks. 
From the park, we headed to Putnam, an old mill town, very different than Pomfret, with the feel of industrial revolution New England. The large red brick Main Street is lined with antique stores. I don't go antiquing but if you do, there is a great selection here. . There is also a lot of good food. We ate lunch at Pyzzz, down the hill from the railroad station; it's funky, has beer on tap and serves good pizza with some creative combinations, including dessert pizza and a special that day of mashed-potato pizza. That night, we had an excellent dinner at the Vine Bistro in Putnam. The restaurant has a modern feel and serves contemporary, urban American food. I had low expectations: it seemed unlikely that such a restaurant could be successful in such a small town, but I was wrong. The food is well prepared by anyone's standards. 
If you want to buy lunch for a picnic or a walk in one of the parks, Jessica Tuesday's is a small upscale deli by the railroad station serving soup, sandwiches and salads - both eat in and take out. The enormous cinnamon rolls are of good, homemade quality. And then we were surprised to run into Mrs. Bridges Pantry, a British tea shop and grocery store down the block run by a British couple. The store was originally a little grocery store of British foods; it now sells British food and gifts, and you can have an authentic British tea there, too.
The Quiet Corner is still surprisingly rural, with rolling hills (less hilly than the Berkshires), woods and lakes reminiscent of the English countryside; lovely in the summer and stunningly beautiful in the fall. The landscape has a classic New England feel - red barns, white churches with steeples, and colonial architecture, and red brick commercial. There are still working farms, animals and orchards, with farm stands along the road in season. 
In addition to the excursions I've already mentioned, I particularly like the area south of Pomfret near the vineyard, including Hampton and Mashamoquet Brook State Park for the small, winding roads and intimate landscapes.
There are also lovely areas to walk, or hike, for the more energetic. In addition to the two parks, the Nature Conservancy maintains walking trails, as do a couple of land trusts; the Kimball Road trail is owned by Joshua's Tract Trust. 
What I like about this part of Connecticut is its honesty. Despite its picture book vistas, it doesn't put on airs (not yet, anyway). It's an authentic rural and industrial area that has seen economic hardship and it shows: there is New England charm, to be sure, but towns are also a little beat up in the way that Hudson Valley towns are beat up.
Tourism hasn't made the area precious or quaint. And lest you begin to drift too far into romantic reverie, there are frequent squads of motorcycles racing along Route 169 to bring you briskly back to reality.

Stops Along an Unbeaten Path
A little research will not diminish the romance of an outing to the Quiet Corner. General tourist information is available through the Northeast Connecticut Visitors District, P.O. Box 145, Brooklyn, Conn.; (860)779-6383, or the Web site www.CTquietcorner.org.
These bed-and-breakfast spots are listed on the Quiet Corner Web site.
Celebrations Inn, 330 Pomfret Street, on Route 169, south of 44; (860)928-5492; (www.celebrationsinn.com).
Corttis Inn B&B, 235 Corttis Road, North Grosvenor Dale (near Thompson); (860)935-5652.
The Inn at Woodstock Hill, 94 Plaine Road, Woodstock; (860)928-0528; (www.woodstockhill.com).
B&B at Taylor's Corner, 880 Route 171, Woodstock; (860) 974-0490; (www.neguide.com/taylors).
Elias Child House, 50 Perrin Road, Woodstock; (860)974-9836; (www.eliaschildhouse.com).
The Mansion at Bald Hill, 29 Plaine Hill Road, South Woodstock; (860) 974-3456; (www.mansionatbaldhill.com).
Friendship Valley B&B Inn, 60 Pomfret Road/Route 169; (860)779-9696; www.friendshipvalleyinn.com.
Weston Manor B&B, 155 Weston Road, Plainfield; (860)564-0740; (www.westonmanor.com).
Lord Thompson Manor, Route 200, Thompson; (860)923-3886; (www.lordthompsonmanor.com).
There are quite a few hotels in Norwich, including the Norwich Inn and Spa; (860)886-2401. 
These eating places are recommended in the article. A word to the wise: call ahead for a reservation. 
Sharpe Hill Vineyard, 108 Wade Road, Pomfret; (860)974-3549. Open weekends year-round; call for hours.
Harvest Restaurant, 37 Putnam Road, Pomfret; (860)928-0008.
The Vine Bistro, 85 Main Street, Putnam; (860)928-1660.
Pyzzz, 8 Harris Street, Putnam; (860)928-7424.
Jessica Tuesday's, 35 Main Street, Putnam; (860)928-5118.
Also worth noting: 
Vanilla Bean Cafe, at the corner of Routes 169, 44 and 97, Pomfret; (860)928-1562.
Mrs. Bridges Pantry, 136 Main Street, Putnam; (860)963-7040.
While driving is a way to see miles of lovely landscapes, there are a variety of places to get even closer to nature.
Bafflin Sanctuary, Connecticut Audubon Center, 189 Pomfret Street, Pomfret Center; (860)928-4948.
Bigelow Hollow State Park, Route 171, Union.
Mashamoquet Brook State Park, Route 44, Pomfret.
West Thompson Recreation Area, Route 12, West Thompson.
Joshua's Tract Conservation and Historic Trust; www.joshuastrust.com.
 STEPHANIE LYNESS

GRAPHIC: Photos: The agenda: good food, charming scenery and leisurely strolls. In Putnam, an old mill town, a row of houses with views that overlook the Quinebaug River. Also in Putnam, Gail Lorentzen and Faith Armstrong, right, are the shopkeepers at Mrs. Bridges Pantry, a British tea shop and grocery store. Antique stores abound, including, below, this one in Woodstock. For lunch in Pomfret, there is Sharpe Hill Vineyard, which serves good, solid food and wine in sight of the vineyard. Bottom, for a scenic diversion, a backyard playhouse in Hampton. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York TimesThe New York Times) Map of Connecticut highlights Putnam and Pomfret.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Stephanie Lyness

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



214 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Turning Menus' Pages To Travel the World 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN HODARA

 BODY:
READ between the lines of menu offerings from restaurants throughout Westchester and you're bound to find sagas of journeys from far-off lands, memories of grandmothers' kitchens and youthful dreams fulfilled. Following are five options for dining that serve up ethnic dishes as well as tales from across the globe. 

Caribbean Harmony
 Christopher McDonald, the owner and chef at Chows Caribbean Cuisine in Tarrytown, earned his nickname, Chow, as a young boy in Jamaica where he was known for his passion for cooking. 
 Though he traveled regularly between this country and Jamaica as a photographer shooting reggae musicians in the 1970's and 80's, he never intended to settle here, even after moving to Brooklyn in 1984.
"I didn't feel comfortable in Brooklyn," he said. "It was too different from where I grew up. I was heading home when I discovered Westchester." 
Mr. McDonald, 46, now lives with his wife in Ossining, and for nearly two years, has devoted all his time to his 49-seat restaurant, where reggae music sets the mood and an outsize decanter of Jamaican rum punch perches by the cash register. 
Photographs of musicians including Bob Marley and Jimmy Cliff, some taken by Mr. McDonald, decorate the walls. 
"Everything you eat here -- it's my food," Mr. McDonald said, meaning his brand of authentic Jamaican dishes, from fried plantains, conch soup and warm codfish salad, to entrees like the seafood medley he calls wobo, curried goat, escovitchfish, and, of course, jerk chicken. 
Another specialty, a combination of salt fish and a fruit called ackee, is described on the menu as "The Jamaican National Dish!!!" Among the dessert selections are Chow's Pineapple/Mango Caribbean Cream and a pastry called gizzarda baked with coconut, ginger and other spices. Beverage offerings include Red Stripe beer, D&G Jamaican sodas and Blue Mountain coffee. 
Mr. McDonald said his restaurant is a tribute to his great-grandmother and his grandmother, both of whom inspired his love of good food. "I still remember the smells of the spices from the time I was 2 and hanging onto my great-grandmother's skirts in her kitchen," he said.
Chows Caribbean Cuisine, 49 Main Street, Tarrytown, (914) 332-9111. 
Entrees $12 to $20. Open Tuesdays to Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Fridays to Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Sundays, 2 to 10 p.m. 

Brazilian Close-Up
The only staff member at Pantanal who is not Brazilian is its owner, Richard Cuddy, 40, a resident of Danbury, Conn., who bought the 10-year-old Port Chester restaurant last February. Since then, he has redecorated with a tropical theme -- yellow walls and green linens (colors of the Brazilian flag), trompe l'oeil murals of oversize plants, and an entryway painted with scenes from the Amazon with piped-in sound effects to match. 
Pantanal is the first restaurant venture for Mr. Cuddy, whose background is in real estate. He had been managing the building that housed the restaurant, a building that his father owned, when the restaurant became available and he decided it would be a lucrative opportunity. 
Pantanal draws diners -- a mix of Brazilians, Portuguese and Americans of all ages (a children's menu is available) -- not only from Westchester, Mr. Cuddy said, but also from Manhattan and as far north as Kingston. They come for karaoke on Thursdays; jazz on weekends; an assortment of Brazilian bar drinks, including A Marca Bavaria beer, caipirinha and batidas; and an elaborate salad bar. Mostly, though, they come for the traditional Brazilian fare. 
This includes 39 choices of Brazilian pizza, prepared by a specially trained chef called a "pizzaiola," with extra thin crust and toppings like chicken, corn, figs and imported catupiry cheese. "This is pizza you eat with a knife and fork," said Mr. Cuddy, who is studying Portuguese so he can communicate better with his customers. "Brazilians don't eat with their hands." 
He added that the only other restaurants he has heard of that serve such pizza in this country are in Newark, N. J., and Boston, Mass. 
Another specialty is rodizio, an all-you-can-eat selection of grilled, skewered meats, including homemade sausage, chicken hearts, picania (fillet), and, soon, buffalo. Those who order rodizio are provided with a small, tri-colored, wooden cylinder with which they signal their server, or "passar carne," whether they are ready for more (green), taking a break (yellow) or sated and ready to stop (red).
Pantanal Restaurant, 29 North Main Street, Port Chester (914)939-6894. Entrees $14.95 to $27.75 (for rodizio). Open seven days, noon to 3:30 p.m. and 5 to 11 p.m. 

Turkey Transplanted
Well before his emigration from Turkey to the United States in 1997, Bekir Helvacioglu, 29, was preparing for a career as a restaurateur. Throughout high school, he worked as a dishwasher. He studied culinary arts in college, then spent two years learning hotel management, honing his skills in housekeeping, sales and reception, as well as food preparation and pastry creation. Rounding out his education, he earned an M.B.A. in finance after arriving in New York. In April 2002, with two partners who have since left, he acquired Turkish Meze in Mamaroneck, then called Just Meze. 
With Middle Eastern music as backdrop, the decor of Turkish Meze evokes Mr. Helvacioglu's birthplace, with its claret-red walls adorned with woven carpets and photographs of Turkey. "This is where I honeymooned with my wife," he said, indicating a picture where the tip of a sunny peninsula juts into an impossibly blue sea. 
But it is the menu that offers Turkey's true flavors, with specialties including ezo gelin soup, blending pureed lentils, bulgur and onions with mint and garlic; appetizers like lebni (homemade yogurt with peppers, garlic and walnuts) and patlican (a salad of chopped grilled baby eggplant, tomatoes, onions and peppers); and entrees like kebabs, sebzeli guvec (fresh vegetable casserole) and manti (tiny lamb-stuffed dumplings topped with tomato sauce and drizzled with butter). 
In addition to shopping, food preparation and some cooking, Mr. Helvacioglu said he "tweaks" traditional recipes to create his own versions of many of the dishes on his menu, using hard-to-find spices like sumac and the spicy aleppo. He credits his mother as his mentor in the kitchen. 
"My mother is the chef," said Mr. Helvacioglu, who commutes to Mamaroneck from Queens. "Whenever I have a question about the food, I call her in Turkey and she tells me what to do." 
Turkish Meze Restaurant, 409 Mount Pleasant Avenue, Mamaroneck,(914) 777-3042 
Entrees, $10.95 to $19.95. Open Mondays to Thursdays, noon to 9:30 p.m., Fridays to Saturdays, noon to 10:30 p.m., Sundays, 3 to 9:30 p.m.. 

Italian Via Albania
Ask the owner John (Fuffi) Nikci, 39, about Albanian cuisine and he'll tell you it's too heavy and too simple to comprise an entire menu. 
"For 500 years, Albania was occupied -- by the Ottomans, the Serbs, the Bulgarians, the Italians," Mr. Nikci explained. "The only Albanians who preserved their national identity were those who took refuge in the mountains. In the cities, they ate all kinds of cuisine -- Italian, Greek, Russian, Polish. In the mountains, they ate simple, heavy food -- roasted lamb and roasted potatoes. That's about it for strictly Albanian cuisine." 
Which is why Mr. Nikci, who emigrated from Albania for political and economic reasons when he was 18, includes only a few Albanian and Croatian offerings on his predominantly Italian menu at Fuffi of Irvington. These include the appetizer animella di vitello, sweetbreads made with cornmeal ("the way the poor made it in Albania," noted Mr. Nikci); fresh fig salad; orecchiette piemontese, a pasta with sausage and feta cheese ("too heavy for the northern Italians," he said); and shell steak Gjovalini, topped with sopresatta and Gorgonzola. 
Mr. Nikci began learning his trade as a dishwasher at age 14, and later as busboy, waiter, captain and cook. He lived in the Bronx for 14 years before moving to Westchester, where he owned restaurants in Ardsley and Larchmont. But it wasn't until he discovered his current location six years ago that he felt he had found home. 
"I love it here," he said. "I love the space, I love the town. It's the first place I've called home in 20 years." He serves as a volunteer for the Irvington fire department and ambulance corps, and through Fuffi, holds annual fund-raisers for local charities. 
In the inner of Fuffi's two intimate dining rooms, alongside a collection of artwork from around the world, hangs a painting created by one of the restaurant's regulars. It is a portrait of Mr. Nikci and his newly-wed wife, Kathy, who works as Fuffi's manager. Along the top is a message written in Albanian that refers to the "kisses on both cheeks" and "Albanian hospitality" that greet Fuffi's diners. 
"That's how it is here," Mr. Nikci said. "You feel it the instant you walk in. Our customers are no longer customers; they become friends." 
Fuffi of Irvington, 12 North Astor Street, Irvington, (914)591-0099. 
Entrees, $16 to $27. Open Mondays to Thursdays, 5 to 10 p.m., Fridays to Saturdays, 5 to 11 p.m. 

Portuguese, to the Detail
Each Wednesday, a ship leaves Portugal laden with fish caught off the coast, and heads across the Atlantic for the Portuguese market in Newark, N.J. Which means that every Thursday, diners at Churrasquiera Ribatejo Portuguese Grill, situated in the heart of Ossining's burgeoning downtown, can enjoy specials like grilled linguado (sole), robalo (striped bass), bacalhau (codfish) and other seasonal fresh fish. Also on the menu, which is presented in both English and Portuguese, are frog legs in garlic sauce, octopus salad and grilled quails, along with more familiar dishes like barbecued chicken and a surf and turf combination. 
Daily specials include cozido, a combination of boiled meat, cabbage and potatoes, and dobrada, a stew of tripe, beans, carrots, chorizo and other ingredients served with rice. 
Churrasquiera Ribatejo is owned by Jose Laranjeira, 39, and his wife Rosa, 42, Ossining residents who, Mr. Laranjeira said, "are involved in every little detail" of their business. Their 18-year-old daughter, Christina, a Marymount College student, waits tables after class. 
The environment here is casual and welcoming, with a diverse blend of clientele.
The front area by the entrance is a gathering place for local workers, whose laughter travels to the 30-seat dining area in the rear, where the stucco walls, sponge-painted a warm peach, are adorned with photographs of Portugal. 
"We love kids, and everyone is welcome," Mrs. Laranjeira said, adding that the couple have been pleased by the number of Americans who enjoy their food. "We weren't sure our American customers would like it," she said, "but once they try it, they order it again and again." 
Mr. Laranjeira, who was born in Tarrytown but lived in Portugal as a young child, bought Churrasquiera Ribatejo three years ago with only his passion for cooking and knowledge of good food to guide him. (He worked previously at General Motors in Tarrytown and as a landscaper.) 
As a self-taught chef ---- "He reads cookbooks all the time," said his wife ---- he enjoys concocting his own recipes.
He makes flan daily for his dessert menu, which also offers chocolate mousse and tiramisu, because, he said, "It's something I like to do." 
Churrasquiera Ribatejo Portuguese Grill, 39 Spring Street, Ossining, (914) 941-5928. Entrees $8 to $25. Open noon to 10 p.m. weekdays, noon to 11 p.m. weekends; closed Tuesdays. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The only staff member at Pantanal who is not Brazilian is its owner, Richard Cuddy, above. Octopus, inset, can be found on the menu at the Port Chester restaurant that Mr. Cuddy bought last February. (Photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. 18); Bekir Helvacioglu, left, in Turkish Meze, where you can get Turkish coffee. Dilaver Aydin, right, holds a fish entree, and there's lamb shank, above.; Christopher McDonald, owner of Chows Caribbean Cuisine in Tarrytown, pauses outside his restaurant, which features jerk chicken, above, and a specialty drink.; John (Fuffi) Nikci owns Fuffi of Irvington, where one can get a dish of beef and lamb sausage, left. (Photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. 19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); SEAFOOD (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%) Restaurants; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Chows Caribbean Cuising (Tarrytown, Ny, Restaurant); Pantanal (Port Chester, Ny, Restaurant); Turkish Meze Restaurant (Mamaroneck, Ny); Fuffi of Irvington (Irvington, Ny, Restaurant); Churrasquiera Ribatejo Portuguese Grill (Ossining, Ny)

PERSON: Susan Hodara

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%) JAMAICA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); TURKEY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



215 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: Bankrupt. Who Pays? 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: PARAMUS 

 BODY:
IN the final days at Workbench on Route 17 here, the store was as spare as the sleek, modern furniture it sold.
 Huge black and yellow signs screamed: "Nothing Held Back. Selling out to the Bare Walls." The showrooms were nearly naked, with a few entertainment units, one Milan dresser marked down from $1,299 to $779.40 and a lone dining set. 
 Marlee Laks poked through the remains with warm memories. 
"I did my first apartment all in Workbench," Ms. Laks said, 20 years, 3 children and a house in Montclair later.
"It's the end of an era," she said. "I can't do Workbench anymore. It doesn't exist."
In New Jersey, where malls and strip-shopping centers dominate the landscape, retail bankruptcies like the one that closed the doors at Workbench have become a part of everyday commerce.
Kmart. Macy's. Bloomingdale's. All have done time in bankruptcy court, where a judge's signature can wipe away millions of dollars in bad business decisions, leaving banks, investors and creditors with a few cents on the dollar.
For the 12 months ending in September, the total number of business bankruptcy cases in New Jersey rose to 28,059 from 26,045. Of those, 349 were reorganizations, a decrease of 4 percent from the previous 12 months; the remaining 27,710 were liquidations, up 23 percent, according to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey.
The demise of Workbench, which had its headquarters in Bayonne for the past 10 years, is a story of bankruptcy that begins with debt and revolves around lending squeezes and balky vendors. Overseeing the company was Kenneth Peskin, a chief executive from Summit with a supermarket background. Some creditors say he was better equipped to sell Danish pastry than Danish Modern.
"You really don't care where you buy your Kellogg's cornflakes," said Warren Rubin, who founded Workbench in 1955. "Furniture is different. Furniture is about style and taste."
The final act, which has just about played out, is a court-ordered liquidation that left creditors, investors and customers of Workbench out millions of dollars and 298 employees out of work.
"Bankruptcy is so much a part of the business cycle, it is almost built-in," said Dean Waldt, a lawyer in Voorhees who represented several landlords in the Workbench bankruptcy. "The retailers know they can expand and be overly aggressive in getting stores open and shut them down if it doesn't work out. While there are some smaller chains that just fail, more and more, Chapter 11 is a part of retail. It's a safety valve, and people know it's there if they need it."
Workbench was not always a staple of suburbia. In fact, Mr. Rubin started it as a storefront in Greenwich Village in 1955. By last year the company had 40 outlets nationwide and $44 million in sales. 
But that was not enough to keep the business out of the hands of the court-appointed trustee. The owners -- primarily Mr. Peskin and a Morristown venture capital firm -- who bought the chain from Mr. Rubin in 1998 and 1999, said in court papers that Workbench was done in by a weak economy, bad weather and the war in Iraq. The company lost $2.8 million in 2001, $1.6 million in 2002 and $2.6 million in just the first quarter of 2003.
When reached for comment at his home in Summit, Mr. Peskin declined to discuss the business.
For their part, employees, landlords and Mr. Rubin, the company's founder and longtime owner, say the new management took on too much debt and mismanaged the business.
"They were having problems by 2000," said Ross Levin, a former Workbench franchisee in North Carolina, who is owed $377,776 by the chain. "It wasn't 9/11, or snowstorms or the current economic conditions." 
Mr. Rubin's reaction was far more visceral. "I feel my baby has been murdered," he said in a recent interview.
In addition to business creditors, consumers were also caught up in the case this summer as Workbench continued to take deposits on merchandise even as the company was in the throes of bankruptcy.
"The real crime here is that several thousand customers won't get their deposits back," Mr. Rubin said.
As a result, the attorneys general in New Jersey, Connecticut and New York are monitoring the case. Customers who put deposits on their credit cards have been told to dispute the charges; the cases of those who paid cash or put down deposits after the company's bankruptcy filing are in the court's hands.
"As with any bankruptcy, where consumers are impacted we're keeping watch on it," said Genene Morris, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey attorney general's office. "Our concern is for consumers who have made deposits,"
Mr. Peskin, the chief executive of Workbench since 1998, resigned from the company on Oct. 23. The next day, a federal trustee determined that the business was insolvent and converted the case from a voluntary bankruptcy liquidation under Mr. Peskin's control to a forced sell-off overseen by a court-appointed trustee.
Michael Holt, law partner of the court-appointed trustee, Charles Forman, said Mr. Peskin's resignation as well as a dispute over the value of the remaining merchandise were among the reasons the federal trustee stepped in. 
Gordon Brothers of Boston, the nation's largest retail liquidating firm, had agreed to run Workbench's going-out-of-business sale in return for a percentage of the proceeds, based on an estimate of retail inventory valued at $11 million to $13 million, Mr. Holt said. But after reviewing the inventory, the liquidator learned the remaining merchadise was worth only $7 million.
"It doesn't surprise me the figures don't match, knowing the incompetence of the management," said Mr. Levin, the former franchise owner from North Carolina.
Mr. Peskin, who has had his share of successes and failures, worked as a grocery clerk while growing up in the Bronx. After graduating from Harvard Business School he went to work for Pathmark, the grocery chain based in Carteret. He rose through the ranks and in 1987, at age 47, was named chief executive of Pathmark's parent company, Supermarkets General.
But the company was struggling because it had just gone through a $1.8 billion leveraged buyout deal in an effort to retain control of the company after a hostile takeover attempt. In 1989, Mr. Peskin left the company, but the debt remained.
"While the stores operated successfully, the penalty of the heavy expense impacted the company's cash flow and management's ability to keep its stores current and competitive," Jonathan Ziegler, an independent research analyst with J.M. Dutton, wrote in a report on Pathmark.
In the end, Pathmark filed for bankruptcy court protection in 2000, wiping away $1 billion in debt.
"The entire morale and spirit of the company lifted because the company was able to cancel approximately $1 billion of its subordinated debt," Mr. Ziegler wrote.
As for Mr. Peskin, after leaving Supermarkets General he met with some success when he took over the management of a bankrupt boating supply company, E&B Marine of Edison, and in 1996 merged it with a competitor, West Marine, according to Mr. Levin. 
At about the same time, Warren Rubin, the founder of Workbench, was nearing 70. Neither of his two daughters was interested in taking over the business, so he decided to cash out.
Through an acquaintance at Harvard, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Peskin were introduced, and Mr. Peskin lined up financing through MidMark Capital, a Morristown venture capital firm that specializes in using Small Business Administration guarantees to buy small to medium-sized companies.
In 1998, MidMark and Mr. Peskin paid Mr. Rubin more than $20 million for Workbench, where Mr. Rubin continued to work as a consultant. At the time of Workbench's bankruptcy filing, MidMark owned 66 percent of the company and Mr. Peskin owned 32 percent, with Mr. Rubin and several other lenders holding the remaining 2 percent.
In addition to its own capital, MidMark borrowed $9 million from IBJ Whitehall, a subsidiary of the Industrial Bank of Japan, to buy Workbench, according to Mr. Rubin. 
"They used too much borrowed money and got into big trouble with their banks," said Mr. Rubin. Mr. Levin suggested that it was not only the debt, but also the price paid to Mr. Rubin -- $20 million -- that was too high for company sales to sustain. 
"More power to him," Mr. Levin said of Mr. Rubin, "but now I'm the one who's out."
There were signs of trouble early on. In July 2000, MidMark, Mr. Peskin and Mr. Rubin put up more than $800,000 to recapitalize the company. But by 2001 the company was in default on its loan from IBJ Whitehall, according to bankruptcy papers.
In December 2001, the General Electric Capital Corporation replaced IBJ Whitehall as the main lender at a lower rate, Mr. Levin said, reducing the debt payment from $587,000 to $125,000 each quarter. But by April 2003 the company was again in default and General Electric called in its loan, according to court papers.
In the meantime, vendors were not being paid. McCreary Modern, a North Carolina furniture manufacturer, the company's largest unsecured creditor, is still owed $963,462. D-Scan Inc., a Massachusetts furniture maker, is owed $307,696. Workbench also has creditors in Denmark, Italy and Portugal.
"It was unbelievable," Mr. Rubin said. "Ken thought the vendors would go along with him. They felt that they were damned if they were going to carry him any further."
For a store like Workbench, which sold much of its inventory off the floor, that was deadly, said Lisa Acevedo, who managed a Workbench store in Raleigh, N.C..
Ms. Acevedo and other managers said their stores had been doing well despite Mr. Peskin's claims that the war in Iraq and a slowing economy had hurt sales.
"I'm sheltered from the corporate headquarters so I didn't see everything, but in the end they just didn't have the capital," she said.
On June 23, Workbench filed for protection from its creditors in federal bankruptcy court in Newark. At that time, the company said it planned to close 11 stores, mostly in the Midwest, and 3 warehouses in an effort to restructure and save the business. The closings, along with cuts in corporate overhead, were expected to save $2 million a year, according to Workbench's bankruptcy papers.
But on Sept. 4, Workbench returned to the court and asked to liquidate after major suppliers refused to extend additional credit. On Sept. 22, Judge Donald H. Steckroth granted Workbench's request to hire Gordon Brothers to sell off the remaining merchandise and close the last 29 stores.
Last weekend, Workbench sold off the last of its inventory at its warehouse in Bayonne. On Tuesday, the company's own office furniture and equipment were auctioned off. "There's nothing left for any of the creditors," said Wendy Marcari, a lawyer with Traub, Bonacquist & Fox in New York, who represented a group of unsecured creditors.
Those who blame Mr. Peskin for Workbench's fall say it seems to have been more a case of ineptitude than avarice.
"As far as I can figure out there was no hanky-panky," Mr. Rubin said, "and believe me, I've looked." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bankruptcy has become a part of everyday commerce. (Photo by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Only days before it closed, a customer looked over the remaining merchandise at the Workbench store in Short Hills. (Photo by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); SUBURBS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Furniture; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Workbench (Co)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Susan Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



216 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: In Many Recruitment Efforts, Health Benefits Act as Lure 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS

 BODY:
When Maggie Mateer was offered a job last July as an accountant for the Xerox Corporation, she hesitated. It wasn't that she did not want the job, or that the salary was too low. Ms. Mateer, who had five years of experience as a certified public accountant, wanted to pore over the details of the company's health plan before she signed on.
 Only after grilling a Xerox human resources representative for more than half an hour -- and finding out that she would be paying $100 less a month out of pocket for health coverage than she had been -- did Ms. Mateer, 26, accept the job. She is now based at the company's headquarters in Rochester. 
 "Good benefits were very important to me," Ms. Mateer said. "I wasn't going to take any job without doing my homework."
With the ranks of uninsured Americans rising sharply -- the number of Americans without health insurance increased by 2.4 million last year, according to the Census Bureau -- and with health care costs for employers rising at double-digit rates, more job seekers are taking a keen interest in the benefit packages offered by potential employers. It is a striking change from the late 1990's, said Emmett Seaborn, a principal at Towers Perrin, a benefit consulting firm based in Stamford, Conn. 
"A few years ago, the only thing people were looking at were salary and potential for career advancement," he said. "Employees weren't asking about benefit plans at all, other than maybe saying, 'Oh, do you have medical benefits?' as they're walking out the door. Now, many start with, 'Tell me about your health plan,' and ask about salary later."
A survey of 865 workers conducted this summer by Center for Survey Research at the State University of New York at Stony Brook reveals strong concerns about health benefits. When asked whether they would prefer a job with health coverage and a lower salary or a job with no health coverage and a higher salary, 71 percent of the respondents opted for the lower salary with benefits.
In addition, 20 percent of those who responded said that they were dissatisfied with the health benefits their company offered, and 50 percent said that they were worried that their health benefits would be cut back in the coming year.
Employees may have reason to worry. According to a survey released last month by Towers Perrin, employees will contribute an average of $59 a month in 2004 for employee-only coverage (up from $38 a month in 2002) and $196 a month to cover their families (up from $134 a month in 2002). Most will also pay more in co-payments for physician visits, deductibles and prescription fees, according to the study.
Such fees have some workers feeling increasingly pinched. One marketing executive who joined a small brand-development firm in New York City in 2001 said that her firm made her wait a full year before giving her health coverage. Even with that coverage, she says she has racked up several hundred dollars in co-payments to doctors this year alone.
"It's getting to the point of being ridiculous," said the executive, who said she was considering looking for work at a company that provides better health coverage.
The promise of 100 percent paid health benefits helped lure Kat McAndrew to Ferrare & Fleming Advertising in Philadelphia last April. 
Ms. McAndrew had previously worked for a dot-com company that did not offer any health benefits, and later for a maternity clothing company that paid only a portion of her health plan costs. "In this day and age, paying nothing for your health coverage is practically unheard-of," said Ms. McAndrew, who works as an account executive in the company's public relations division. "For me, that was a big draw."
Unfortunately for most workers, few companies are offering extensive health benefits in this economic climate. But some are creating and refining other, less expensive benefits as a way to attract and retain workers, said Barry Schilmeister, a principal at Mercer Human Resources Consulting. 
Some companies are increasing the number of vacation days given to employees, or considering a variety of other benefits, including a broader range of retirement options, retirement planning assistance and backup child care programs, Mr. Schilmeister said. At the end of 2001, for example, Ernst & Young, the professional services company with headquarters in New York, began giving new employees three weeks of paid vacation instead of two, and added paternity- and adoption-leave benefits, according to a spokeswoman.
These enhanced benefits helped to entice one Ernst & Young alumna, Lisa Meyer, to rejoin the company earlier this year. One big reason she came back after a brief stint with a real estate firm, she said, was Ernst & Young's flexible hours policy, which allows Ms. Meyer to take her three children to school before arriving to work at 9:30 each morning. 
The pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca plans to roll out a new health plan in January that will require some employees to pay more out of pocket for medical expenses, but the company is also expanding the range of flexible work programs it offers. 
In March, the company added an on-site child care center, said Andrea Moselle, senior manager for work-life programs. And in September, it opened an on-site kindergarten, and a before- and after-school program for children in kindergarten through 12th grade. "We tout these benefits as a competitive advantage" at recruiting fairs and in job interviews, Ms. Moselle said.
In one recent case, she said, a physician who had job offers from both AstraZeneca and one of its chief competitors had his wife come in and check out the child care center before making his decision. He ended up taking the position at AstraZeneca. "The child care center was the tipping point," she said.
Job seekers who are not satisfied with the benefits offered by a potential employer have some room for negotiation, said Pam Sednak, managing partner at O'Brien & Company, an executive search firm based in Cleveland. While very few companies will haggle over health care plan costs, some are willing to shorten the amount of time it takes for such benefits to take effect or to cover stopgap insurance. And benefits like vacation time are highly negotiable, Ms. Sednak said. 
But Ms. Sednak cautioned that job seekers should not insist on too many additional benefits. "You don't want to appear too greedy, especially in this job market," she said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Job Market section on Sunday about companies' use of health benefit plans to attract workers misstated the headquarters location of the Xerox Corporation. It is Stamford, Conn., not Rochester.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maggie Mateer scrutinized the health benefits package before taking a job at Xerox. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); CENSUS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%) Labor; Fringe Benefits ; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%) Xerox Corp

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%) SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES; 

PERSON: Melinda Ligos; Maggie Mateer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



217 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Court Treatment System Is Found to Help Drug Offenders Stay Clean 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

 BODY:
Nonviolent drug offenders who complete judge-supervised treatment programs are significantly less likely to commit crimes again than those who serve prison time, according to a new study by an independent research arm of the New York State court system.
 The study underscores what New York's chief judge, officials at the United States Justice Department and local judges across the country have believed for years, without the benefit of formal research: that state-run "drug courts" offering court-supervised treatment programs are far better at preventing future criminal behavior than prison is, and that they do so at a fraction of the cost. 
 The study of New York's drug court system, by the Center for Court Innovation, found that in six sample jurisdictions -- including three in New York City -- the rearrest rate among drug offenders who had completed a court-monitored treatment plan was 29 percent lower over three years than the rate for the same type of drug offenders who opt for prison time without treatment.
"These are very positive findings, I think, getting to the answer of whether drug courts work in reducing recidivism," said Deborah J. Daniels, an assistant United States attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's grant-making arm, which gives millions of dollars to local drug courts. "It shows that drug courts continue to be a very promising way of dealing with a first-offender or nearly first-offender population." 
Drug courts focus on a limited, voluntary group of offenders and generally do not admit hard-core criminals, like major drug traffickers, multiple-felony offenders or anyone with a history of violence. 
New York drug courts, which have included 18,000 nonviolent drug offenders who have volunteered to participate in court-monitored treatment in lieu of incarceration, have saved an estimated $254 million in prison-related expenses, the report said. 
They have also helped low-level offenders like Jimmie Bellamy, 24, of Jamaica, Queens, stay out of trouble. Mr. Bellamy, arrested twice since 2000 for possessing a small amount of cocaine, is one of 250 participants in Judge Leslie G. Leach's Queens Treatment Court, one of 13 in the city.
A third conviction would send Mr. Bellamy to jail. But next month, Mr. Bellamy, an airport freight handler, will complete his one-year program under Judge Leach's guidance and graduate out of drug court.
"Before I started with the program, I thought it was a joke," Mr. Bellamy, carrying a sign-in sheet for his Narcotics Anonymous meeting, said in an interview after an appearance before Judge Leach on Thursday. "I didn't have my G.E.D., I didn't have a job. Now, I'm working on my G.E.D., I got a job. I just bought me a car." 
The need for drug courts, judges and prosecutors say, has increased as the number of drug arrests nationwide has exploded over the last two decades. New York State recorded 145,694 drug arrests in 2000, a sixfold increase from the 24,407 arrests made in 1980. More than half of New York State prisoners convicted of drug-related crimes are arrested again within three years.
Court-ordered drug treatment has been a fixture in states' criminal justice systems for years. Drug courts are distinguished by their requirement that judges and prosecutors monitor an offender's progress in treatment. There are now more than 1,000 state and local drug courts across the nation, including 106 in New York, the second-largest state system next to California's.
New York State's drug court system is regarded as one of the best in the nation, said John S. Goldkamp, a professor of criminal justice at Temple University, who has studied the impact of drug courts in several states.
New Jersey operates about 20 drug courts in 13 counties, but budget cuts have delayed plans to open them in the state's remaining 8 counties. 
Connecticut is planning to reopen its half-dozen drug courts soon. They were closed for budget reasons last year; at the time, the state court system's chief administrator, Judge Joseph H. Pellegrino, said drug courts "may not have been as successful as we may have thought," the Associated Press reported.
Judge John R. Schwartz began New York's first drug court in Rochester in 1995, over considerable doubts among some of New York's most influential judges. But within months, city courts in Buffalo and Syracuse, and a district court in Suffolk County, had drug courts.
The first drug court started in 1989 in Miami -- the illicit gateway for South American cocaine -- as local criminal courts were being overwhelmed with drug cases. Dade County jurists and officials formed a committee to discuss creating incentives for addicts to get treatment. 
"They invented a model that they never meantto be a model for the country," Professor Goldkamp said.
That Janet Reno was the Dade County prosecutor at the time and Hugh Rodham, Hillary Rodham Clinton's brother, was a local public defender also helped garner attention. President Bill Clinton appointed Ms. Reno attorney general in 1993, and the next year, Congress, led by Democrats, passed a crime-prevention bill that sent $6 million toward drug courts in local jurisdictions around the country.
This year, a Republican-controlled Congress approved nearly $45 million for drug courts in all 50 states, Washington and Puerto Rico, and President Bush's budget proposal for next year includes $64 million.
The administration has consistently supported increased financing for drug courts; President Bush's niece Noelle Bush is one of the 100,000 people who have entered drug courts over the past 14 years. 
In January 2002, Ms. Bush, now 26, the daughter of Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, was charged with prescription fraud after she posed as a doctor to fill an order for an anti-anxiety medicine. Her case was referred to a drug court, and the judge supervising her treatment program dismissed the charge last August.
In New York State, as in other places, drug courts emerged over the objections of many jurists who saw them as a form of social work, an inappropriate departure from the business of interpreting the law and deciding punishments. 
"I was a skeptic," Joseph J. Traficanti Jr., a New York deputy chief administrative judge and the current director of the state's 106 drug courts, said in an interview on Friday. Judge Traficanti, a prosecutor in the 1960's and 70's, said his philosophy for fighting drugs was, "Lock them all up and solve the problem."
"Of course, that didn't work," he said.
Judge Traficanti said he changed his mind in 1997, when he traveled to Rochester to observe Judge Schwartz's "graduation" of drug-court participants. "I couldn't really believe my ears and eyes," Judge Traficanti recalled. "These tough street people got up one after another and said, 'Judge Schwartz, thank you for saving my life.' "
In its study, the Center for Court Innovation also notes the limitations of the impact of drug courts on participants, who are, according to statistics, as likely to fail to finish their treatment as they are to complete it. 
Offenders who enter drug court but fail to complete their treatment, in fact, are often more likely to commit new crimes than offenders charged with similar crimes who never participated, the study found.
In drug courts, prosecutors put aside the usual adversarial approach to defense lawyers and their clients and, instead, everyone works with the judge to foster compliance. But as the New York study shows, each court's rules and requirements for admitting participants vary almost as widely as do their rates of success. 
Their individual rules may cause the disparity. Many drug-court jurists, like Judge Leach in Queens, use a system of encouragement -- a round of applause, for instance, for a clean urine test -- and punishments that increase in severity with each misstep. Most of his clients, as he calls them, are unemployed; most are charged with cocaine-related crimes; and most, he said, are addicted to marijuana. 
Judge Leach's approach, like many drug court jurists', is to be strict but encouraging. "You end up establishing a relationship when you see a defendant once a week," he said. 
So when, say, an offender fails a drug test, Judge Leach may express his displeasure and demand that the person compose an essay explaining his decision andways to avoid making another bad one. If a participant seems blase about his treatment, the judge might force him to spend the day in the "penalty box" -- the jury box -- where he can witness drug court failures being handcuffed and led straight to jail.
At the center of the drug courts' success, judges say, are the participants who turn their lives around.
"When you see a parent get his case dismissed, with his children in the courtroom, or a wife with tears in her eyes, it really is a rich, rewarding thing to see," Judge Leach said in an interview. "Because they can actually see a light."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmie Bellamy, 24, with Donna Haase, a public defender, is one of 250 participants in Judge Leslie G. Leach's Queens Treatment Court. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 35) Chart: "Drug Courts Reduce Repeat Offenses"Court-supervised drug treatment programs, or "drug courts," provide an alternative to prison sentences for some criminals. A new study shows that those completing such programs are far less likely to commit another offense than those who do not participate or who drop out. Percentage of criminals with repeat offense Arrested within one year after completing drug court BronxSuccessful participants: 4% were convicted againFailing participants: 29% were convicted againComparable nonparticipants*: 29% were convicted again After three years, 53 percent either finished successfully (overcame addiction) or remain enrolled. BrooklynSuccessful: 6%Failing: 27%Nonparticipants: 23% 52 percent either finished successfully or remain enrolled. QueensSuccessful: 8%Failing: 22%Nonparticipants: 25% 69 percent either finished successfully or remain enrolled. SuffolkSuccessful: 12%Failing: 40%Nonparticipants: 32% 63 percent either finished successfully or remain enrolled. SyracuseSuccessful: 12%Failing: 39%Nonparticipants: 35% 43 percent either finished successfully or remain enrolled. RochesterSuccessful: 12%Failing: 36%Nonparticipants: 37% 28 percent either finished successfully or remain enrolled. *With similar arrests and background, one year after completing sentence (Source by Center for Court Innovation)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (95%); DRUG COURTS (93%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JUDGES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); FELONIES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COCAINE (73%); RECIDIVISM RATES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (51%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Crime and Criminals; Research; Sentences (Criminal); Courts; Therapy and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%) Center for Court Innovation

PERSON: Paul Von Zielbauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



218 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Bomb: Untested but Ready, C.I.A. Concludes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency has told Congress that it now believes that North Korea has mastered the technology of turning its nuclear fuel into functioning weapons, without having to prove their effectiveness through nuclear tests.
 The C.I.A. report goes beyond previous public statements suggesting that North Korea built one or two weapons in the early 1990's, a figure many intelligence experts believe has risen in the last few months. Those statements carried the presumption that the North had developed the technology to detonate weapons, but in background briefings, some American and Asian intelligence officials expressed doubts. They said that in the absence of a North Korean nuclear test, there was no way to be certain of its capabilities. 
 Now those doubts appear to be gone. But the reason why is still a mystery, perhaps buried in a classified annex that the C.I.A. also sent to Congress. 
The C.I.A.'s notification to Congress, sent in mid-August, reports that while North Korea could conduct such a test, it was probably refraining from doing so to avoid "precipitating an international backlash and further isolation." For the first time, the agency has publicly stated that the North's technology is advanced enough that a highly visible test -- like those conducted in China in the mid-1960's and in India and Pakistan in the 1990's -- is unnecessary.
The agency's new assessment, first reported by Reuters, came in a series of written, unclassified responses to questions posed by members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
The conclusion, if accurate, would give credence to recent statements by North Korean officials that they already possessed a working "nuclear deterrent," and to their assertion that it was too late for the Bush administration to stop it from becoming a full-fledged nuclear power.
The C.I.A.'s judgment complicates the diplomatic task facing President Bush as the United States moves toward another round of six-nation talks with the North, probably next month. Mr. Bush, who declared this year that he would never tolerate a nuclear North Korea, has said the United States is prepared to offer, with other nations, some form of security guarantees to the North in return for its agreement to disarm.
But even if the North agrees, defining "disarmament" may be very difficult. American intelligence officials acknowledge that they do not know exactly how much weapons-grade fuel North Korea has produced this year, since international inspectors were expelled on Dec. 31. 
One senior official said on Saturday that the significance of the C.I.A.'s conclusion was that "we may never know for sure how many weapons they manufactured and then hid away in some tunnel." Even if North Korea agrees to give up both its production facilities and the weapons it has already produced, a step many Korea experts in the administration believe is unlikely, "how would we ever know that we've gotten all of it?" the official asked.
The C.I.A. report was in reply to questions posed by senators in the spring. The answers were submitted on Aug. 18, but were not made public until recently. They are written in the arcane language of nuclear intelligence.
"We assess that North Korea has produced one or two simple fission-type nuclear weapons and has validated the designs without conducting yield-producing nuclear tests," the report to the committee said. The agency appeared to be referring to the kind of basic bomb containing plutonium extracted from North Korea's nuclear power reactors, not to warheads made from highly enriched uranium.
The agency noted news reports that the North had conducted "high-explosive tests since the 1980's in order to validate its nuclear weapons design(s)." Those tests, it suggested, made it unnecessary to stage a full nuclear explosion to be confident that the designs would work.
The full document, and another assessment by the Defense Intelligence Agency, were posted on the web site of the Federation of American Scientists (www.fas.org), an independent group that analyzes arms control and other issues. The D.I.A. report also concludes that Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, appears to have a "secure" hold on power.
It concludes that the chances for the reunification of the Korean peninsula, divided since the Korean War ended a half century ago, are "low" in the next five years, and that if Mr. Kim were displaced, he would probably be replaced by a military official.
The conclusions give little cause for optimism among those in the Bush administration who hope -- as the Clinton administration did -- that the government would collapse because of North Korea's deep economic troubles.
On July 1, a month and a half before the report to the Senate, The New York Times reported that American satellites had been studying an advanced nuclear testing site in an area called Youngdoktong, and that the C.I.A. had told allies it believed that the North was working on designs there that would produce a compact nuclear warhead that could fit onto a missile. Since then, a number of officials have said they believe that there is a weapons laboratory adjacent to that facility; it may be there that much of the work the C.I.A. described has been conducted.
The unclassified version of the statements sent to the Senate make no reference to the size of the nuclear weapons that the North can now produce, or whether they could be fitted onto its missiles, including those that can reach Japan and beyond. Nor does it disclose which nations may have helped the North.
Decades ago, the country received early aid on its nuclear program from China, which is now working with the Bush administration to prevent North Korea from going nuclear. Several years ago it reached a deal with Pakistan that swapped North Korean missile technology for Pakistani nuclear aid; many experts believe that it was the Pakistani connection that allowed North Korea to make the final leap.
Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf, has denied that his country is currently helping North Korea, but he has been vague when asked about any past assistance. He repeated those denials last week.
Pakistan's aid was chiefly related to a second, secret nuclear project in North Korea, involving the production of highly enriched uranium, which intelligence agencies concluded probably had not yet produced a weapon.
It is unclear if Pakistan or other nations have given recent help to the older North Korean project, which involves producing weapons from spent nuclear fuel.
Pakistan and India each conducted nuclear tests in 1998, and the United States responded by imposing sanctions on both. It removed them later, in Pakistan's case after it offered help after the Sept. 11 attacks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%) Nuclear Tests; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (97%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



219 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Bayonne Is Proud Of Golf Course Plan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Although we in Bayonne always welcome the occasion to tell the rest of the world about our wonderful city, we take issue with "The View's Great, But the Course Is a Real Dump" (front page, Oct. 26).
 Your premise that most people associate Bayonne with "pizza," "tanker" and "landfill" is stereotypical and myopic. We Bayonnites can indeed boast of the best pizza in New Jersey, but ours is a vital, growing community. In fact, New Jersey Monthly magazine called Bayonne one of the best cities in the state in which to reside, ranking it No.1 in public safety and in the quality of its schools. 
 Moreover, while Bayonne would have greatly preferred to have a public golf course built here, this was simply not practical. The nonprofit National Golf Foundation, which we engaged to study the feasibility of a public course as opposed to a private one, concluded that it would have been economically suicidal for Bayonne to get into the golf course business. And it would be difficult for me to justify the construction of a golf course using public funds when we are fighting to maintain our high level of police and fire protection and other city services.
In a hard year of bargaining with Empire Golf, we won concessions -- beyond those that you mention -- that will allow Bayonne residents to play 1,000 discounted rounds at the four other Empire Golf courses in New Jersey and have unfettered access to the course here a half-day a week during maintenance time. This is of no small consequence because even as you depict Bayonne as a "blue-collar port city," thousands of golfers reside here who will take advantage of these opportunities.
Finally, the quotation that golf courses are among "the biggest wastes of prime real estate" belies what you set out earlier in the piece: that the course is being built on a defunct garbage dump. You neglect to say that part of the site was owned by Public Service, which planned to build a nuclear power plant there in the 1970's. I don't know about you, but the citizens of Bayonne and I will take a golf course over a garbage dump or nuclear plant any day of the week.

Mayor Joseph V. Doria Jr.
Bayonne

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (91%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (85%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RANKINGS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (69%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (68%); POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%) Golf

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: Joseph (Mayor) Doria

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Bayonne (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



220 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE; 
When the Ultimate Monument Isn't a Building

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
LOUIS KAHN, the subject of a brilliant film portrait by his son, Nathaniel Kahn, is the ghost at the banquet that architecture has become since his death in 1974. As the movie makes clear, Louis would have made a bad banquet master. He was too dedicated to mastering architecture. That left little room for the aesthetic jollies in which today's designers take such splashy delight.
 Titled "My Architect," this wonder of a movie should put a stop to the notion that architecture is a less creative form of practice than music, painting, literature or dance. I have never seen or read a more penetrating account of the inner life of an architect -- or of architecture itself -- than that presented in this movie. 
 The depth it achieves owes much to the filmmaker's search for his own psyche. Nathaniel was 11 years old when Louis died. His father's buildings become the medium through which the son discovers his own identity. The result is a personal reflection on the continuity buildings offer society at large.
The film starts off bleakly, with Nathaniel recounting the circumstances of his father's death, by heart attack, at the age of 73. He collapsed in the men's room at Penn Station in New York. Lacking proper identification, his body was sent to the city morgue, where it lay unclaimed for three days. Kahn was bankrupt but by no means forgotten: no American architect of that period was more highly esteemed. The discrepancy between Kahn's professional achievements and his disordered personal life is one of the movie's central themes.
It emerges that Kahn's life was nearly as complicated as Frank Lloyd Wright's. Married to one woman, he sustained three families. Members of the trio didn't meet until Kahn's funeral. It is hard to imagine that such a menagerie could exist in the Philadelphia of those years, or even today. There are limits to brotherly love. Born out of wedlock, the grown-up Nathaniel must retroactively create the family in which he finds a legitimate place. That is this picture's story.
In the mid-1960's, I was acquainted with one of Louis Kahn's children. I never knew what all the grown-up whispering was about; just that there were whispers, and that they weren't about architecture. In any case, I didn't discover Kahn's work until 1965, when I moved into quarters that looked right onto the Richards Medical Research Building at the University of Pennsylvania (1960), the first building that brought Kahn international renown. It was like living next door to somebody famous. Of course, in the Philadelphia of those years, fame was more scandalous than sex.
"My Architect" (opening on Wednesday at Film Forum in Manhattan) is very much a Philadelphia story, in terms of urban as well as moral climate. Kahn's work matured in the postwar decades of "white flight," the suburban middle class exodus that hit cities nationwide. The erosion of downtown Philadelphia was particularly painful, however, because the city had long prided itself on its relative stability. Also, Philadelphia had two giants in the fields of architecture and city planning: Kahn and the legendary Ed Bacon, the Daniel Burnham of postwar American planning.
Feisty as ever at 92, the lovably cantankerous Mr. Bacon puts in an appearance here, one of several cameos by the senior statesmen of American urbanism. In his scene, Mr. Bacon is challenged to defend Kahn's exclusion from the planning of postwar Philadelphia. Mr. Bacon accuses Kahn of myopia: his focus on the individual work of genius blinds him to regional needs.
The point is well taken. Still, many in the Philadelphia region may now regret the local scarcity of Kahn's architecture. In the age of "archi-tourism," substantial buildings are among the cultural draws that cities increasingly rely on to shore up their shrinking economic bases.
While the film remains tightly focused on the father, Nathaniel is a constant presence on its margins. Art imitates life. The irony of this is surely deliberate. Legally, Nathaniel was a bastard. Psychologically, his father was worse than that. Yet the movie does not adopt a judgmental attitude, except perhaps toward the mores of the times.
There may be great male architects who have managed to successfully organize conventional private lives. In my observation, talented people are drawn to this highly social art precisely because they are truly comfortable only with inanimate objects and abstract ideas. This doesn't excuse Kahn's behavior. It does suggest, however, that those who are drawn into the orbit of such figures are not necessarily victims, or victims solely.
Women got many raw deals within the monogamous conventions of the 1950's and 60's. How do you compare the development of an inner life to the socially sanctioned denial that such a thing exists? "My Architect" lets the ambiguities speak for themselves.
There is a lovely scene near the beginning of the film. Nathaniel is shown Rollerblading in the great courtyard of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, Calif. Completed in 1965, the institute is a masterwork of 20th-century architecture, usually approached on bended knee. The cinematography gives us that sense of reverence, then partly undermines it as Nathaniel traces serpentines within the courtyard's immaculate void. The moment comes across as a desire for freedom, from the void of an absent father, a memory that must have been crushing at times.
It's a Post-Modernist we see skating down there, a surrogate for all the architects, like Philip Johnson, who had to break out of Kahn's solemnity in order to breathe. Robert A. M. Stern, in his cameo performance, warns against putting Kahn on a pedestal. But isn't it the architects of Mr. Stern's generation and temperament, with their desire for commercial success, who ended up keeping Kahn up there?
In addition to the Salk Institute, the movie's grand tour of Kahn's buildings includes the library at Phillips Exeter Academy (1972) in Exeter, N.H., the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth (1972) and the Yale Center for British Art (1974) in New Haven. Finally, Nathaniel visits the great complex of government buildings his father designed for the capital of Bangladesh (1983). Here, far from the context of technological civilization, Nathaniel gains the feeling that he has rejoined his father at last.
The release of this film is perfectly timed. Today, many architects are seeking to convey the emotional qualities Kahn captured. Frank Gehry, in his star turn, speaks for them. It's become customary to trace this emphasis back to Aldo Rossi and the explicitly sentimental dimension he explored in his writings and designs. "My Architect" makes a good case that Kahn was the primary pivot away from the cool rationality of modern thought toward the contemporary search for subjective truth.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Louis Kahn and his son Nathaniel, circa 1970, in "My Architect." Louis Kahn's buildings included the Salk Institute, left, and the governmental complex in Bangladesh. (Photo by Louis Kahn Project, 2003); (Photo by Harriet Pattison) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews; Architecture

PERSON: Louis I (1901-74) Kahn; Herbert Muschamp; Nathaniel Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%); BANGLADESH (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



221 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Ground Zero and City Opera, a May-December Match 

BYLINE:  By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
THE New York City Opera recently ended a run of Carlisle Floyd's "Of Mice and Men," a revival of Rhoda Levine's honorable production from 1997, well done all around. Anthony Dean Griffey, especially, was nearly ideal as Lennie. But the performance looked and sounded dated, and it set me to thinking about ground zero.
 The City Opera has been aggressively lobbying to be named the flagship institution in the new cultural presence at ground zero. To its evident surprise, it has encountered resistance. As of this writing, no decision has been announced, but the downtown powers seem to want a greater diversity of artistic expression. 
 From City Opera's perspective, it belongs downtown, not in Lincoln Center. I do not wish here to rehash the arguments about the New York State Theater's suitability for opera or the decades-long tensions between City Opera and the New York City Ballet on one hand, and City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera on the other.
What interests me, and what forges the link to "Of Mice and Men," is the ideology behind both opera and Opera. American culture has changed radically in the last 65 years. It is that change, rather than the virtues or failings of City Opera in its current condition, that is causing it problems downtown.
"Of Mice and Men" is based on a novella John Steinbeck wrote in 1937, just six years before Morton Baum founded City Opera at the City Center. The novella was set in the present, in the Salinas Valley of California during the Great Depression, and it ennobled or sentimentalized its characters, migrant farm workers. The underlying intent -- adopted by Mr. Floyd in a way that had begun to look pretty old-fashioned by 1970, when his opera was first performed -- was to honor the working man by elevating him to highbrow tragic stature, whether in literature, theater (in Steinbeck's stage adaptation) or, ultimately, opera.
City Opera represented that last flush of idealism in which the common man was to be bettered by high culture. That idealism was a direct descendant of the dispensation of culture by European kings and aristocrats, who felt it their duty to improve their subjects (the more ostentatiously the better). With the collapse of the monarchies (in power if not in fact), the role of artistic patronage was assumed by democratic states; royal operas became state operas. Leftist governments, whether Social Democrat in pre-Nazi Germany or Communist, carried on the role of cultural benefactor.
The antimonarchical United States never developed a comparable system of state support for culture. But in the 1930's, it was still taken as a given that corporations should improve the citizenry, as with Arturo Toscanini's NBC Symphony and other programs of "good music." The Texaco Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts, now soon to be abandoned, were a prime example.
Similarly, politicians like Fiorello H. La Guardia, who helped found City Opera and nicknamed it "the people's opera" (shades of the German Volksoper), encouraged similar largess. And they backed up their noble words with municipal assistance in the form of tax breaks and inexpensive long-term leases of city property.
That kind of largess is not entirely dead -- especially in New York, where at least some politicians still recognize the economic impact of culture. Rudolph Giuliani, an opera buff, went out of his way to help Lincoln Center and the Met and other high-profile manifestations of high art. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg contributes generously from his personal wealth.
What caused the erosion of that old sense of obligation, and why does our "people's opera" no longer seem popular -- or even welcome -- at ground zero? The answer, not to be judgmental about it, is the rise of popular culture. Even in the 1930's, the left was as interested in gritty, authentically demotic folk music as in slathering high culture down on the toiling masses. And certainly the masses were less interested in such betterment than in their own music.
By now, for all the lip service still paid to high culture and for all the genuine passion and pleasure that millions still derive from it, the revolution is complete. The current issue of Vanity Fair, for instance, has a foldout cover of celebrity photographs by Annie Leibovitz trumpeting "American Music" without one classical musician in the group. American music in the minds of most Americans today is popular music. We're a democracy, and the majority votes for what is most popular. Opera ain't it.
To some extent, opera's current marginality is its own fault, in failing to sustain the blend of creativity and popularity that distinguished the operatic past. And to some extent, one might wish for a little more responsibility on the part of our politicians.
But the fact remains that the new art that excites people these days is likely to come in the form of film or literature or popular music or visual installations, not from an art like opera, whose best days seem well behind it. If an artist today is to celebrate the common man or lament Sept. 11 effectively, it will most likely be -- it has already been -- Bruce Springsteen or Neil Young. When it comes to art forms based on a blend of song and instrumental accompaniment, Mr. Springsteen's album "The Rising" has touched more people, and is better art besides, than a high-minded classical score like John Adams's "On the Transmigration of Souls."
Maybe City Opera will wind up at ground zero after all, sharing the space with other arts institutions. Perhaps that would be good for all concerned. By anchoring the new cultural complex, the company would get out from under its physical and institutional burdens at Lincoln Center and could continue its good work of recent years in reinventing itself.
But no one, least of all those who run City Opera, should be shocked at resistance. We live, for better (say I) or worse, in a multicultural society in which a European-based consensus as to what constitutes "good music" is long gone. Few corporations and politicians feel obligated to improve the populace with high art anymore. The best that beleaguered partisans of opera can hope for is that they won't be ignored altogether.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy Allen Lundy and Anthony Dean Griffey in "Mice and Men." (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSIC (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); BALLET (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); FARM LABOR (66%); LITERATURE (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%) Opera; Opera; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: New York City Opera

PERSON: John Rockwell; John Steinbeck; Carlisle Floyd

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



222 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Election Year Problem 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan may be in for a rough election. Indeed, if you ran the Federal Reserve, you'd probably just want to take off every fourth year. A presidential campaign can be an awkward time for the nation's independent central banker, who has more power to influence the economy quickly than any single branch of government, even though it is the president who gets the lion's share of credit or blame for how things are going.
 President Bush's father unfairly blamed Mr. Greenspan for his defeat by Bill Clinton in 1992, claiming that Mr. Greenspan was too slow to cut interest rates, thereby delaying a recovery. This history only makes Mr. Greenspan's present challenge more delicate. 
 The quandary facing the Federal Reserve will not be how much or how fast to cut, but how much and how fast to raise, its crucial overnight interest rate, now at a 45-year low of 1 percent. Just two weeks ago, the Federal Reserve opted to leave that rate unchanged, and it issued a statement suggesting it would not act for a "considerable period."
But the ongoing flurry of positive economic data should force Mr. Greenspan to shorten his time horizon. Since the Fed spoke, we have learned that the economy grew at a blistering 7.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter. Manufacturing, construction, corporate profit, consumer spending and productivity numbers have all been impressive. 
Most significant, the economy is finally adding jobs after being battered by the overhang of the popped Internet bubble, terrorism, corporate scandals and the war with Iraq. More than a quarter-million jobs were created in the last two months, according to figures released Friday, and plummeting new claims for unemployment benefits suggest the labor market will only get stronger. The unemployment rate now stands at 6 percent, down from 6.4 percent in June. A new Gallup poll shows that most Americans feel the economy is improving.
Nobody is yet suggesting that these are the best of times. The country will be hard pressed to regain anytime soon the 2.5 million jobs lost during the Bush presidency. Still, it's clear that these record-low interest rates, which sustained consumer spending during the slowdown as people rushed to refinance their mortgages and otherwise take advantage of easy money, are no longer prudent.
The Bank of England last week became the first major central bank in three years to raise interest rates, and Mr. Greenspan will have to do the same soon, unless he wants to begin flirting with inflation. You can expect the Fed to prepare markets for the turnabout when it next considers rates in December, and then to take action in the spring. Mr. Greenspan cannot allow the political calendar to make him trigger-shy. 
There is always a concern that a rise in interest rates will derail a recovery, or spook the stock market. But in this case, if a modest increase from such extraordinarily low rates is done carefully and deftly explained, Americans will understand that it is a vote of confidence in this recovery.
Democratic presidential candidates may have to adjust their pitch in reaction to an improving economy, but they need not worry about running out of compelling economic policy arguments. They can remind voters that their party pushed hard for tax cuts aimed at working families that did provide a stimulus, and wanted more of them, while they resisted the larger, regressive cuts that have wrecked the nation's long-term fiscal outlook by pumping up the deficit. 
This brings us to a second, even more critical election-year quandary facing Mr. Greenspan, who famously lectured President-elect Clinton in late 1992 about the economic dangers posed by large federal deficits. He should speak forthrightly about this danger now that it has been resurrected by President Bush's recklessness.
To his credit, the Fed chief did just that in a speech last Thursday. Continuing to do so, however, will not be easy in an election year, particularly given his complicated history with the Bush family. But then, if Mr. Greenspan had been more adamant about warning about the dangers of huge deficits when Congress first sought his views on the tax cuts, he might be facing a smoother election year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (65%); IRAQ WAR (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); SCANDALS (50%) 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Board

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



223 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Despite Jobs Spurt, Executives Remain Cautious About Adding Workers and Plants 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, ventured a prediction that struck many economists as dangerously brash: rapid economic growth in the United States could produce as many as 200,000 new jobs a month over the next year.
 But Saturday, a day after the government announced that the country added about 126,000 jobs in October, Mr. Snow had reason to feel at least partly vindicated. 
 "I'm not in the business of making estimates," he said in a telephone interview on Friday. "But, I do feel that with the continuing strong recovery we're going to see jobs pick up in the coming months." 
It is far too early for Mr. Snow to declare victory. Even though economic growth surged at a rapid annual rate of 7.2 percent in the third quarter of this year, business executives around the country say they are still cautious about expanding their work forces and building factories.
And a new economic study, prepared for the United States Conference of Mayors, concludes that wages are significantly lower in the service sectors that are adding jobs than in the manufacturing industries that have been losing jobs.
According to the study, prepared by the economic consulting firm Global Insight, the biggest job growth over the next two years will be in the areas of administration and support services, health care, travel and tourism.
The average wage in those sectors over the next two years is expected to be $36,000, the study concluded. By contrast, the average wage in manufacturing sectors that lost jobs is $43,000.
"While you see jobs coming back, they are not coming back in the same sectors," said Kwame M. Kilpatrick, the mayor of Detroit. "Cities like Detroit have to struggle to find their niche."
Last month's jump in employment was more than twice what most economists had been predicting, and it came on top of new data showing that job growth in September was twice as high as the government originally estimated one month ago.
The upshot: after losing about 2.8 million jobs since early 2001, most of them in manufacturing, the country has abruptly added nearly 250,000 over the past two months. Given the natural growth of the nation's work force, the economy needs to add about 150,000 jobs a month before unemployment will drop much below its current level of 6.0 percent.
Still, the numbers could be very good news for President Bush, whose record on jobs, one of the worst of any president in the last century, has been among his biggest obstacles to re-election next November.
Notwithstanding the recent jump in jobs, corporate executives say they are still trying to squeeze extra production out of existing workers rather than hire new ones.
Jeffrey A. Joerres, chief executive officer of Manpower Inc., the temporary employment company that is based in Milwaukee, said his corporate customers were not asking for nearly as many workers as the new employment data might suggest.
"We feel a pickup, but it doesn't seem to be as robust as the numbers would indicate," he said.
The Union Pacific Corporation, the big freight rail company, is preparing for a year of strong growth. But although the company is hiring, it expects productivity gains to allow it to keep its overall work force around its current size of 46,300 people or somewhat fewer.
"We're going to handle more business with fewer people," said Jim Young, Union Pacific's chief financial officer.
In its regular survey last month of chief executives at large companies, the Business Roundtable found that 71 percent of the executives expect their sales to increase in 2004 but only 12 percent expect to expand their work forces.
"Productivity continues to astonish everybody," said Henry A. McKinnell, chief executive of Pfizer Inc., the pharmaceutical producer. While executives are far more optimistic about next year than they were just a few months ago, he said, their mood is still "not ebullient."
In themselves, the new job numbers are not that impressive. By comparison with the rebound in jobs after other recessions, including the so-called jobless recovery of 1991, the pace of job creation now remains anemic.
In a speech on Thursday, a day before the Labor Department released the October employment data, a Federal Reserve governor, Ben S. Bernanke, took pains to emphasize that the labor market remained weak.
In contrast to previous downturns, he said, the vast majority of layoffs in recent years have been explicitly permanent rather than temporary. A study published this summer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York concluded that many of the manufacturing jobs lost over the past few years would not be replaced. The reason: Companies have made fundamental improvements in productivity and they are shipping more work overseas.
After an extensive review of all the possible reasons for the sluggish labor market, Mr. Bernanke said he was convinced that the biggest cause was the stunning growth in productivity -- the amount of goods or services produced per worker.
Indeed, the government reported on Thursday that productivity shot up at a blazing annual rate of 8.1 percent in third quarter, which ended in September, and that followed increases of 5 percent since late 2001.
Diane Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation in Chicago, said the job picture would almost certainly improve because companies would find themselves under increasing pressure to keep up with rising demand.
Banks and financial institutions are already strengthening their work forces. Merrill Lynch, which slashed 20,000 jobs in the past three years, announced on Thursday that it planned to hire 650 new brokers by the end of next year.
But even if the pace of hiring in October gathers additional strength, adding more than 150,000 a month, many economists still contend that unemployment will decline only modestly by the end of next year. For those who are out of work or forced to accept lower-paying jobs, that kind of recovery may not feel like much of a cause for celebration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); STATISTICS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); MAYORS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (67%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries; Hiring and Promotion; Service Industries; United States Economy

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%)

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JEFFREY A JOERRES (50%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



224 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: DEAN'S NEW STEPS RESHAPE CONTEST 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Michael Janofsky contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
After months of being viewed by Democrats as an improbable if persistent candidate, Howard Dean has erased questions about his staying power and forced his rivals to upend their strategies to counter his increasing influence on the race, party leaders, strategists and even rival campaigns say.
 In the past week, Dr. Dean lined up two important labor endorsements, and on Saturday he became the first Democrat to withdraw from the public campaign finance system. That strategy, though potentially risky, will allow him to far outspend his rivals and further establish himself as an unconventional driving force in the primaries. Page 28. 
 While Dr. Dean was shaken this week by attacks on his statement that he wanted to be "the candidate for guys with Confederate flags," he thus far seems to have endured the harsh criticism in a way that even his competitors said demonstrated the resilience of his candidacy and the intense loyalty of his supporters. 
Given the size of the field, Dr. Dean's lack of experience in national politics and his tendency for intemperate remarks, his success at navigating the very early months of the Democratic nomination battle hardly means he is assured of being nominated in Boston next July. Dr. Dean, a former governor of Vermont, faces particularly tough going once the race turns South, given his views, like his support for domestic partnership for gays and his opposition to the war in Iraq.
Still, Democrats across the country are expressing admiration for Dr. Dean's evolution as a candidate and no longer view him simply as an intriguing if quirky doctor from Vermont who would like to be president. 
"There's a mystique about Dean," said Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston, who is backing Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination. "Every time you have a presidential campaign there is one candidate that has the mystique, and usually by now, by this time, it's done. Dean is different."
Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, who has so far not endorsed a candidate in the race, said: "He's the only Democrat who can keep pace with Bush financially. And he wears well. He's not flashy or slick. He gives you direct answers to questions. He has the potential to be our strongest candidate." 
The steady march of Dr. Dean's candidacy comes as the underlying landscape of the entire campaign has been shifted by an economy that is showing signs of coming back to life. But Dr. Dean has built his candidacy upon a platform of opposing the war. That stand has strengthened him in early Democratic contests where opposition to the invasion was high even before the situation deteriorated in Iraq.
For now, his rivals said, Dr. Dean's continued success will bring, along with attention and new supporters, more attacks and more rigorous examination by his opponents. 
Already, Dr. Dean's competitors have begun spotlighting inconsistencies in his views on issues ranging from Medicare to gun control, as they challenge any perception that he is a straight-talking iconoclast.
"I think Americans deserve straight talk: They want to know who Howard Dean is," Mr. Kerry said.
Even Dr. Dean's advisers said that a perception of him as a front-runner could lend urgency to an anti-Dean movement, prompting Democrats in Washington who have warned that he would lead the party to a devastating defeat against Mr. Bush to try to rally around a single candidate.
"These next two or three months will, amazingly enough, be a referendum on Howard Dean," said Anita Dunn, a Democratic consultant not affiliated with a candidate. "And he will either emerge as a stronger candidate, or, ifhe is flawed, those flaws will become apparent."
Nevertheless, Dr. Dean's display of strength has clearly staggered his opponents.
In the pivotal primary state of New Hampshire, Mr. Kerry suddenly finds himself in a battle to save his once formidable candidacy in what was supposed to be his comfortable backyard. With polls showing Dr. Dean opening up a wide lead in the state, Mr. Kerry has struck a newly aggressive stance against him. 
In an hourlong interview on a public radio program in Concord on Wednesday, Mr. Kerry, who two months ago publicly chastised his campaign manager for assailing Dr. Dean, again and again turned questions about his own views into attacks on Dr. Dean, until his host finally politely asked that Senator Kerry use his time to talk about Senator Kerry. 
"Howard Dean is now the favorite and we're the underdog, and John Kerry and his campaign are now fighting like we're the underdog," said Judy Reardon, who runs Mr. Kerry's campaign in New Hampshire. "I remain optimistic that we're going to pull this thing out."
Another major Democratic candidate, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, has become something of a ghost in New Hampshire, turning nearly all his energies to the Democratic caucuses in Iowa. Mr. Gephardt is trying to prevent a defeat there that would be as devastating to him as a loss to Dr. Dean in New Hampshire would be for Mr. Kerry.
In Iowa, Dr. Dean and Mr. Gephardt were engaged in what many Democrats in the state said was a tight race before Dr. Dean succeeded this week in lining up endorsement of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which is to be announced in Washington on Wednesday, Democratic officials said. That endorsement may have shifted the tables there, providing Dr. Dean an infusion of disciplined, organized support, a counterweight to what has been Mr. Gephardt's main advantage going into these caucuses.
And looking beyond Iowa and New Hampshire, all of Dr. Dean's eight rivals are now talking about the primary within the primary -- the battle for which one of them will be the "anti-Dean" candidate next February, should the race evolve that way.
Aides to many of Dr. Dean's rivals argued that he would wither in the heat of a one-on-one contest, given what many described as his sometimes ornery disposition and uncomfortable presence on television, which will increasingly be the medium by which Democrats judge the candidates.
"The events of the week increased the likelihood that it will be a one-on-one matchup with Wesley K. Clark when we get to the South," said Chris Lehane, a senior adviser to General Clark. "We believe we'll do very well in that matchup. Voters are looking for leadership and they are looking for someone who can win a general election."
But even Democrats who said they welcomed a one-on-one fight with Dr. Dean said they were impressed with his performance in recent days. 
After two days in which he seemed to be staggering under the weight of attacks by opponents for his remark about the Confederate flag, Dr. Dean apologized and was buoyed by the announcement that he had won the endorsement of the Service Employees International Union, which has a heavy representation of black members.
His endorsement by the public employees union was a surprise from a union that had made clear it was looking first and foremost for a winner. That endorsement startled his rivals and went a long distance to rebutting what had been one of the major reservations from Democrats about him: his ability to be a serious general election candidate.
Increasingly, Dr. Dean's strength is evident not only in early polls, but on the ground in places like Iowa and New Hampshire. At 11:30 the other night at Dr. Dean's New Hampshire headquarters in Manchester, the lights were on and the office was buzzing with paid aides and volunteers. A block away, at Mr. Kerry's headquarters, the lights were dark.
When Dr. Dean turned up for a town hall meeting on Thursday night in Nashua, in the midst of the furor over his Confederate flag remark, so many people turned up that many parked their cars at the Nashua Airport, a half mile away. Dr. Dean drew at least four standing ovations in the course of his presentation, a wild reception that left little doubt about the intensity of enthusiasm among supporters that has led many Democrats to view him as such a potent candidate.
"Most of our friends jumped on the Dean bandwagon months ago," said Susan Katzenberg, a homemaker from Amherst who turned out to hear Dr. Dean that night. "They are going to be very hard to sway." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); ED RENDELL (58%) Adam Nagourney; Howard (Dr) Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2003 



225 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: 2 Sides Seem Entrenched In Supermarket Dispute 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
As 80 picketing workers bellowed chants outside the supermarket Thursday evening, Rosalyn Colvard, a grocery stocker, said she would need help from welfare to make ends meet if Southern California's three largest grocery chains won their four-week-old battle with 70,000 workers.
 For the cashiers and stockers on the picket lines, the fight to fend off large-scale concessions is a struggle to avoid being thrown into one of America's lowest castes, the working poor. But for the supermarkets, the confrontation, the biggest labor dispute in the nation in recent years, is a painful investment toensure that they can survive against Wal-Mart and other low-cost rivals. 
 "The stakes are enormous," said Ruth Milkman, chairwoman of the University of California Institute for Labor and Employment. "If the employers succeed in their effort to extract large concessions, they will turn these into low-wage jobs, and other employers across the nation will see this as a green light to try to do the same thing." 
The feuding sides appear to be dug in. On one side is the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which for over 60 years has obtained such good wages and benefits that the region's supermarket workers can lay claim to being part of the middle class, or at least the lower rungs of the middle class. The workers' pay ranges from $7.40 an hour for baggers with 30 months on the job to a $17.90 maximum for cashiers.
"If we lose this fight, there go 70,000 jobs that will no longer be middle-class jobs," said Connie Leyva, president of the food workers' local in San Bernardino County. "It would have huge ramifications on the economy of Southern California."
On the other side are the supermarket chains, led by Steven A. Burd, chief executive of Safeway, a former management consultant who told the workers that they had "Cadillac benefits" that were too generous in this era of retail hypercompetition. Unlike most Americans, the supermarket workers do not pay any premiums for health insurance. 
"We view this as an investment in our future," Mr. Burd told Wall Street analysts last month in a conference call. "And I'm confident that my bargaining partners view it exactly the same." 
Each side says the showdown, which involves a strike and a lockout, has reached a critical stage, and each insists that the other is suffering badly and may soon soften its position. The grocery chains involved -- Albertsons; Vons, owned by Safeway; and Ralphs, owned by Kroger -- lost more than $131 million in sales in each of the showdown's first weeks, according to Merrill Lynch. And many workers acknowledge that a month without regular paychecks hurts badly.
Millions of shoppers are unhappy, too. Across Southern California, 859 supermarkets are involved in the dispute, causing Californians to debate whether to cross the picket lines as they weigh personal convenience against support for the workers. During the stoppage, the picketed stores have stayed open, but sales have dropped by two-thirds, industry analysts estimate.
The two sides have not negotiated since Oct. 11, when workers at Vons walked out, but the next day Albertsons and Ralphs struck back by locking out their unionized workers to show solidarity with Vons. As evidence that the dispute is taking its toll, the two sides agreed on Friday to resume talks on Monday, joined by Peter J. Hurtgen, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
On the picket line, workers often grow furious as they discuss the concessions demanded by management: a two-year freeze on raises for current workers, a requirement that workers pay $780 in annual premiums for family health coverage, and a cap on annual employer health contributions, which would most likely cause a decrease in benefits.
"What gets me is they want to take away many of my medical benefits and have me pay more for it," said Kelly Klinge, a $10.90-an-hour merchandise clerk at a Vons.
Management wants to create a second tier of wages and benefits for new employees. The proposed tier calls for paying new cashiers $10 an hour after 30 months on the job, 44 percent lower than the $17.90 under the old contract, union officials say. Newly hired cashiers would eventually rise to $15.10 an hour, but only after eight years on the job.
Ms. Colvard, the stocker, said management's demands to have workers pay more for health insurance and to cut bonuses for working on Sundays would leave her with too little money to support herself and her two children. She said she was on welfare until 1996 when she took a job with Albertsons, where she earns $12.17 an hour. Like most of the supermarket workers, she is assigned just 24 to 32 hours a week, making her annual pay around $18,000.
"Management's offer is fine if you live in less expensive states like Florida or North Carolina, but it just won't cut it in California," she said. "If I have to start paying more for my health coverage, I don't know how I'm going to afford rent and food and clothes for my kids."
As she spoke, a striker behind her carried a sign reading, "Don't Let Us Become Another Wal-Mart."
The three chains have said that they need concessions because mighty Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, will soon open the first of 40 grocery-selling supercenters planned for Southern California over the next five years. Wal-Mart's grocery workers average less than $9 an hour.
"The supermarkets don't have a choice," said Lisa Cartwright, an analyst with Citigroup Smith Barney. "They're losing market share to alternative formats, whether it's Wal-Mart, Dollar Stores or wholesale clubs. They are in a tough position, and they have to find ways to compete more effectively." 
She said the California battle "would set a trend for the supermarket industry in other regions," especially if a new contract created a lower second tier. 
The workers dread a second tier. Under management's proposal for workers at that level, the supermarkets would contribute $1.35 per hour toward health coverage, coming to about $1,800 a year per worker, enough to finance minimal coverage. That compares with the $5,000 that the supermarkets contributed annually per worker under the old contract. 
"The new hires would have low pay, little in the way of medical benefits, and no pension, so what kind of a future will they have?" said Maria Solorzano, a cashier for 18 years. "We're out here picketing to protect the people who come after us."
Many workers said that if management got its way, it would have huge incentives to push out old employees to make way for lower paid new workers. "The two-tier system means current employees will walk around with a target on their head," said Mike Morales, a cashier in Pomona.
Mr. Burd told the Wall Street analysts that Safeway's health expenses would increase by $130 million in three years if it did not address health costs. He said that the strike's cost was "a very small number compared to accepting business as usual." 
Safeway officials would not make Mr. Burd or other officials available for interviews. Spokesmen for Vons and Ralphs did not return phone calls, and an Albertsons spokesman declined to comment. 
To turn up the heat, the union has begun picketing and running advertisements in Northern California urging consumers not to shop at Safeway stores there.
Many shoppers have honored the picket lines out of loyalty to cashiers, baggers and stockers and turned to Stater Brothers and other supermarkets not involved in the dispute. But now customers are complaining that lines at Stater Brothers have grown too long and its parking lots too crowded. 
On Oct. 31, the union pulled its pickets from Ralphs, giving shoppers a green light to go there, saying that Ralphs had taken a less hard-line stance than the other chains.
Slowly but surely, union leaders acknowledge, the number of shoppers crossing the picket lines is growing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Talks are to resume today between grocery workers and stores. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (99%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); LOCKOUTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SALES FIGURES (61%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) FOOD; LABOR; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUPERMARKETS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) ALBERTSONS INC; VONS STORES; SAFEWAY PLC; RALPHS GROCERY CO; KROGER SUPERMARKETS; WAL-MART 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC5411 GROCERY STORES; 

PERSON: STEVEN A BURD (66%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



226 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Superfund Job, Not Quite Finished, Frustrates a Town 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: KOKOMO, Ind., Nov. 6 

 BODY:
The worst has been removed from this industrial city's largest hazardous waste site. Barrels of chemicals have been carted away. Contaminated front yards have been stripped and covered with fresh sod. The rusty buildings where rats and homeless men took shelter have been demolished and removed.
 Three years ago, a chain-link fence with barbed wire was put around the site, the former home of Continental Steel, a Kokomo manufacturer that went bankrupt in 1986. Since then, the city has been waiting for the federal government to finish the cleanup. But the money for the Superfund program, which restores the nation's worst abandoned toxic waste sites, has not kept pace. 
 Kokomo officials have been told for two years that the full cleanup is not being paid for and they fear that the delay will continue indefinitely. A three-inch-thick redevelopment plan sits on the shelves of the downtown library. And the city, which is trying to revitalize itself by building brick gazebos and renovating condominiums downtown, has a toxic site centrally located along one of its busiest roads.
Kokomo's Continental Steel site is only one in a big backlog of hazardous waste sites that has emerged over the last several years as Superfund dollars have been stretched thin.
Seven sites could not start final cleanup in 2002. Last year, that number rose to 10. The backlog for final cleanups is likely to grow as cleanups already in place consume a greater share of the available money, say officials at the Environmental Protection Agency. Superfund appropriations have hovered around $1.2 billion a year over the last two years, down from $1.6 billion in 1999.
While the immediate and visible hazards are gone, Kokomo residents say they still worry.
The final cleanup plan includes a full dredging of the creek beds, since the sediments of the nearby creeks are still contaminated with PCB's. An advisory says the fish in the creek are not fit to be eaten, but most of the warning signs are long gone -- blown away by storms or vandalized. Many young people, who have only vague memories of the strong smells and toxic dust cast by the steel mill, fish in the creek regularly. The rock quarry is still contaminated, and the acid lagoons, once dry, fill up regularly with rainwater.
Neighbors complain about a rusty, moldy smell that they say comes from the site in the summer. Four-story black slag heaps sit between the creek and a main road.
"I feel abandoned," said Carolyn Kauble, who lives in a modest house one block away from the site. Her husband, Phillip, died this year of cancer, having lived 60 years in the neighborhood. 
Before his death, Mr. Kauble, who had worked at Continental Steel, helped galvanize local and federal governments to begin cleaning up the site.
"It's been 14 years, and we haven't given up," Ms. Kauble said. "It's not completed. It's not done. It's not safe." She still keeps blue crates, stacked four and five high, with reams of her husband's documents on the Continental Steel site.
Kokomo's cleanup is delayed because federal officials do not consider pollution here severe enough to deserve high priority. 
"They feel like they've taken care of the imminent threat," said Jolene Rule, a local environmental leader.
E.P.A. officials say that the lower numbers of cleanups reflect the complexity of Superfund operations. Cleanups have become more difficult, time consuming and expensive, leaving less money for the remaining cleanups to enter the final stage. Eight large sites are taking up 40 percent of the budget devoted to final cleanup.
"We just have fewer dollars to start new projects," said Marianne Horinko, an associate administrator of the E.P.A. who oversees toxic cleanup. 
But money for cleanups may be tighter now that the industry-supported portion of Superfund, a trust created to clean up "orphaned" toxic sites, will essentially be depleted this year after hitting a high of almost $4.6 billion in 1996, according to recent projections by the General Accounting Office.
Now cleanup funds must come from general Congressional appropriations, competing with other domestic needs.
Environmental groups and Democratic senators have called for the reinstatement of the original corporate taxes that filled the Superfund coffers, which expired in 1995. But the Bush administration and industry have resisted, saying the taxes burden companies that do not pollute.
To clear the backlog, the administration has asked Congress for $150 million in additional funds -- enough to jump-start 10 to 15 new cleanups. However, the Senate and the House have each appropriated only $30 million to $40 million of that request.
In the four generations that the hulking Continental Steel buildings stood out against Kokomo's skyline, people coped with the red soot that snowed down regularly on their houses and cars.
At one point Continental Steel, founded in 1914, employed 2,700 people in a city that currently has 46,000 residents.
But then the company went bankrupt. Instead of economic vitality, Continental Steel now symbolizes eyesores and headaches for city planners and neighbors alike. Neighbors requested that the environmental cleanup leave up one wall on the weed-covered lot, to shield the residents from the view and any blowing debris.
"They carried the ball to the 90-yard line," said John Rawlings, who lives near the site. "They have to carry it 10 more yards that are the toughest part, and they backed off."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I feel abandoned," Carolyn Kauble said of the delayed efforts to finish cleaning upthe former Continental Steel site in Kokomo, Ind. Ms. Kauble lives near the site, below, where rubble and dirt wait to be removed. (Photographs by Tom Strattman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (93%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); SUPERFUND (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (76%); BUDGETS (75%); VANDALISM (72%); LIBRARIES (68%); HOMELESSNESS (57%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; BANKRUPTCIES; STEEL AND IRON; SUPERFUND; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) KOKOMO (IND); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



227 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Dark Days in Shangri-La

BYLINE:  By Samrat Upadhyay; Samrat Upadhyay, author of the novel "The Guru of Love," teaches creative writing at the Indiana University.

DATELINE: BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

 BODY:
In the 60's Nepal was a hashish-filled Shangri-La for hippies. In the 80's its hills swarmed with trekkers catching the evening sun as it hit Annapurna. Now a more sinister show is playing in the villages and in the capital, Katmandu -- and it should make Americans worry.
 For seven years, Maoist rebels have been waging a "people's war" that has turned this once-peaceful nation of 25 million, Lord Buddha's birthplace, into a killing field with thousands dead. In language that frighteningly invokes Pol Pot's Cambodia, they've vowed to kill millions more and "hoist the hammer and sickle atop Mount Everest." In August, after a seven-month cease-fire that allowed them to regroup, the Maoists began striking fiercely, and most Nepalis fear what will happen if they win. 
 If Nepal turns into a Maoist totalitarian state, it could alter the security balance throughout South Asia. In this geopolitically important area, already rent by nuclear-fueled one-upmanship between India and Pakistan, this is a risk the world cannot afford. 
The Maoists have already formed close alliances with leftist extremists in the Indian states of West Bengal and Sikkim; the rebels often hide over the border in northern India, and the Indian government has made little effort to crack down on them. There are reports of cooperation with Communist factions from the Philippines, Peru and Turkey. The rebels model their approach after Peru's murderous Shining Path guerrilla movement: voice the aspirations of the poor, fight state oppression and police brutality, use violence as a means to justice.
The rebels apparently see no paradox in their clinging to the revolutionary doctrines of Mao Zedong, even as his heirs in Beijing show an interest in helping the Nepali government defeat the insurrection. They also openly admire the late North Korean dictator Kim Il Sung, and could turn Nepal into another Hermit Kingdom: isolated, bitter and in constant friction with its neighbors. 
And at a time when the United States could do without more adversaries, the virulently anti-American stance of the Maoists could turn Nepal into a breeding ground -- not unlike Taliban-era Afghanistan -- for those who want to strike back at the great "imperialist" nation in retaliation for real or imaginary injuries.
When they began their insurgency eight years ago, the Maoists -- with their promise of land reforms, free education and universal health care -- garnered support from rural Nepalis suffering from decades of extreme poverty, illiteracy and caste and ethnic prejudice. Even urban elites saw them as an antidote to the failed leadership of corrupt and querulous political parties. But as the Maoists began snuffing innocent lives and calling it "collateral damage," public sentiment has largely turned against them. 
Since 1995 the Maoists, with their 8,000 regular troops and perhaps as many as 40,000 irregular fighters, have been conductingsneak attacks against police and army posts, blowing up bridges, and publicly beheading alleged enemies and spies. 
Tourism, a mainstay of the Nepali economy, has been hit hard, as have primary sources of foreign exchange like textile and carpet manufacturing. "Business people are scared of the Maoists, who appear relentless in their efforts to destroy factories by setting them on fire," said Ashutosh Tiwari, a business consultant in Katmandu. "They rob banks, call for nationwide strikes and extort money -- called a 'Maoist tax' -- from business people."
The public is caught in the middle of the civil war. Last month four schoolchildren were killed in the crossfire between the army and the Maoists. In the past two years more than 5,000 people -- army, Maoists and civilians -- have died. Amnesty International has criticized the Maoists for "scores of abductions and kidnappings," but also condemned the army for arbitrary arrests and 250 cases of suspect "disappearances." 
Nepal's monarchy has only compounded the problem. A year ago King Gyanendra fired the prime minister for supposed incompetence and dissolved the Parliament. For some Nepalis, this raised anxieties that the country was reverting to the repressive Panchayat regime that ran the country from 1962 to 1990 under the crown's absolute rule. Others lauded the king's "active" hand: 12 years of democracy hadn't worked, and it was time the king took control.
In traditional Nepali thought, the monarch is an incarnation of Hindu god Vishnu, preserver of life. To some extent, this hold over the people remains, although it took a blow two years ago when Crown Prince Dipendra, drunk and drugged, gunned down 10 relatives, including his father, King Birendra. 
In February, Nepalis sighed with relief when the Maoists began negotiations with the government. A strident war of words, however, soon replaced dialogue, and the rebels went deeper into hiding. Their chief demand is for an assembly to redraft the Constitution, making the crown either powerless or obsolete. They also want the government to oust American military advisers and to terminate the country's counterterrorism agreement with the United States. 
Nepal isn't an Islamic country, it doesn't possess nuclear weapons, and it's small. But America should treat Nepal's insurgency problem as another potential Afghanistan -- the Maoists' hard-core Communist ideology more than compensates for their lack of religious fervor. Should America intervene militarily, however, the Maoists' leader, Baburam Bhattarai, has warned of "another Vietnam." More to the point, ordinary Nepalis reject foreign interference in solving their country's problems, and the American-led invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq have solidified Nepalis' suspicion about America's true motives. 
So what can the United States do? Instead of military aid (last year Congress approved $20 million in emergency military aid to help fight the insurgents), America should push for democratic change. King Gyanendra's executive fiat hasn't solved the Maoist problem, and his government's recent hasty appointments of party members to local administrative posts damningly resembles the pre-democratic Panchayat rule. 
Rather than hoping that a firm hand will subdue the rebellion, America should make its $27 million in annual economic aid to Nepal contingent on the king's moving toward new elections under a multiparty interim government. "Let the executive powers go back to the people," says Akhilesh Upadhyay (no relation), an editor at The Katmandu Post. As for India, Saubhagya Shah, a leading Nepalese scholar, says the United States should "convince India to shut down Maoist bases on its territory and extradite the rebel leadership."
Since the end of the cease-fire in August, more than a thousand Nepali lives have been lost. But the Maoist insurgency is not simply about terrorists: it's about the problems of a struggling democracy. These difficulties are shared with many other countries around the world, and each is a test case of America's commitment to spreading its ideals of liberty and freedom. 
For years Nepalis suffered under absolute monarchy, which provided the foundation for Maoist ideologues to garner support among the oppressed. The only way out of this quagmire is more democracy, not less.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jose Ortega) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CANNABIS (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TALIBAN (76%); LIBERALISM (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

PERSON: UPADHYAY, SAMRAT; GYANENDRA (KING) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (53%) INDIANA, USA (79%); SIKKIM, INDIA (79%); NORTH INDIA (79%); HIMALAYAS (78%); MOUNT EVEREST (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) NEPAL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); PERU (92%); CHINA (79%); TURKEY (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%) NEPAL

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



228 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: WITH CASH TIGHT, STATES REASSESS LONG JAIL TERMS 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: OLYMPIA, Wash., Nov. 6 

 BODY:
After two decades of passing ever tougher sentencing laws and prompting a prison building boom, state legislatures facing budget crises are beginning to rethink their costly approaches to crime.
 In the past year, about 25 states have passed laws eliminating some of the lengthy mandatory minimum sentences so popular in the 1980's and 1990's, restoring early release for parole and offering treatment instead of incarceration for some drug offenders. In the process, politicians across the political spectrum say they are discovering a new motto. Instead of being tough on crime, it is more effective to be smart on crime. 
 In Washington, the first state in the country to pass a stringent "three strikes" law by popular initiative a decade ago, a bipartisan group of legislators passed several laws this year reversing some of their more punitive statutes. 
One law shortened sentences for drug offenders and set up money for drug treatment. Another increased the time inmates convicted of drug and property crimes could earn to get out of prison early. Another eliminated parole supervision for low-risk inmates after their release.
Taken together, these laws "represent a real turning point," said Joseph Lehman, the secretary of the Washington Department of Corrections, who was a major supporter of the legislative changes. "You have to look at the people who are behind these laws," Mr. Lehman said. "They are not all advocates of a liberal philosophy."
A major backer who helped persuade the Legislature to pass the new drug policy was Norm Maleng, a conservative Republican who has been the King County prosecutor in Seattle since 1979 and was a sponsor of a 1980's law that doubled sentences for drug convictions.
"It was a littlelike Nixon going to China when Norm went down to the Legislature to persuade them to support this," said his chief of staff, Dan Satterberg. 
The new laws will save Washington a projected $45 million a year. But equally important, Mr. Satterberg said, the new drug policy "is a recognition that you can't incarcerate your way out of this problem."
"There has to be treatment as well as incarceration," he said.
Still, Dave Reichert, the Republican sheriff of King County, along with other sheriffs in the state, opposed the law allowing offenders to earn more time for good behavior because, he said, he was afraid some of those released were violent criminals. "I'm worried that this is a first step in a long road that could take us decades to recover from," he said.
In Kansas, faced with the need to build $15 million worth of prisons, the Legislature passed a law this year mandating treatment instead of incarceration for first-time drug offenders who did not commit a crime involving violence. The law is expected to divert 1,400 offenders a year, a significant proportion of Kansas' 9,000 inmates.
"I think we are realizing that there is a smarter way to deal with criminals, rather than just being tough on them and putting them away for the rest of their lives," said John Vratil, a Republican who is chairman of the State Senate Judiciary Committee.
"Even those people who favor being tough on crime don't want to find the money to build more prisons and go back on their pledge of no new taxes," Mr. Vratil said. "So they are choosing between the lesser of two evils." Will this new approach last when the economy recovers? Mr. Vratil thinks it will.
"What started out as an effort to save money has evolved into an appreciation for good public policy, and this has enabled legislators who were initially reluctant about it to support it," he said.
Michigan has dropped its lengthy mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenders, among the toughest in the nation. Iowa, Missouri and Wisconsin have taken steps to ease their "truth in sentencing" laws, which require inmates to serve most of their sentences before being eligible for release.
Colorado has sought to reduce the large number of former inmates who are sent back to prison for technical parole violations, like failing a urine test or not showing up for an appointment with a parole officer. A new Colorado law limits the amount of time nonviolent offenders can be sent back to prison to 180 days.
Missouri has passed a law allowing inmates convicted of property crimes to apply for release after only four months, instead of having to serve one-third of their time, usually four to seven years.
These changes reflect an important national trend, said Daniel Wilhelm, director of the State Sentencing and Corrections Program at the Vera Institute of Justice in New York City. "People thought parole was dead, the idea of early release from prison," Mr. Wilhelm said, because in the 1980's and 1990's many states outlawed parole as part of the get-tough-on-crime movement.
"But parole is alive and well," he said, because of the twin pressures of budget deficits and the continued growth in the nation's prison population, even as the crime rate has fallen or leveled off over the past decade. There are now 2.1 million Americans in jail or prison, quadruple the number in 1980.
The New York Legislature quietly took two steps this year, with the support of Gov. George E. Pataki, that are tantamount to making parole easier to get in order to save money, Mr. Wilhelm said.
The first law enables inmates convicted of nonviolent crimes to earn a certificate for good behavior, which makes them eligible for a program called presumptive release, under which they can be paroled without going before the parole board.
An estimated 1,185 inmates a year will be released early this way, saving the state $21 million, said Robert Gangi, executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, a prison research and advocacy group.
Under the other new law, offenders convicted of some of the most serious drug crimes will for the first time be able to shorten their prison term by up to one-third by avoiding discipline problems and by staying in education or other programs. This means that an inmate serving a sentence of 15 years to life for the possession of a small amount of drugs, under the Rockefeller-era drug laws, could now get out in 10 years, Mr. Gangi said.
Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the New York State Assembly, described the two laws as significant steps, but said they still fell far short of repealing the drug laws.
Even Alabama, one of the most conservative states, now has a sentencing commission that has made reform recommendations, which the Legislature has begun to enact this year.
"I've been in the attorney general's office 30 years," said Rosa Davis, the chief assistant attorney general in Alabama, "and we've been the 'lock them up and throw away the key' office. We're now learning the difference between being tough on crime and smart on crime."
In Alabama, a severe fiscal crisis is forcing some of these changes, Ms. Davis acknowledged. "We've cut spending on prisons so far that our prison system now looks like a third world country," she said. Some prisons are so crowded they are operating at almost double their capacity.
One new law this year raised the monetary threshold for prosecuting property crimes to $500 from $250, to try to keep the flow of new inmates down. Under another new law, low-level offenders will be kept in work release programs or sent to drug treatment. Alabama was one of the few states not to have such alternatives to prison. 
Here in Washington, the budget crisis has also made the changes possible, said David Boerner, a former prosecutor who is now chairman of the Washington Sentencing Guidelines Commission. "The fiscal crisis has brought together the folks who think sentences are too long with the folks who are perfectly happy with the sentences but think prison is costing too much," Mr. Boerner said. 
The new Washington drug law will lower sentences for drug offenses and allow judges to send offenders to treatment instead of prison, with the opportunity to have the charges against them dropped if they successfully complete the program. Money for treatment will come from money saved by the reduction in the number of drug offenders in prison.
One of the most sweeping changes in the nation was Michigan's repeal of its mandatory minimum drug sentences. The reform is projected to save the state $41 million this year, according to a report by Families Against Mandatory Minimums, an advocacy group.
Under the new law, not only were drug penalties drastically reduced, but inmates already in prison became eligible for earlier release. Karen Shook, for instance, a 44-year-old single mother of three, was serving a 20- to 40-year sentence for conspiracy to sell two and a half ounces of cocaine. It was her first arrest, and Ms. Shook said she thought her sentence was particularly harsh because she was only an intermediary. The actual dealer received a three-year sentence.
"I got longer than most people get for violent crimes," she said. But under the revised law, Ms. Shook became eligible for parole in April, after she had served 10 years, and she has now returned to her home near Lansing.
"In the end, the impossible happened," Ms. Shook said. "I had appeal after appeal turned down by the courts, and then it was the Legislature that wrote the law the other way and got me out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Karen Shook was released from prison after Michigan repealed mandatory drug sentences. Joseph Lehman, right, of the Washington Corrections Department, said that not only liberals supported repeal of such laws. (Photo by Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times); (Photo by Larry Davis for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); PAROLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SHERIFFS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PROBATION (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); PROPERTY CRIMES (72%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PROBATION AND PAROLE; PRISONS AND PRISONERS 

PERSON: DAVID G REICHERT (55%) BUTTERFIELD, FOX; VRATIL, JOHN (STATE SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) WASHINGTON (STATE); KANSAS

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



229 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: States Pay for Jobs, but It Doesn't Always Pay Off 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
A huge, light-gray building, trimmed jauntily in blue, rises from the rolling, grassy fields on the far side of the runways at Indianapolis International Airport. From the approach road, the building seems active. But the parking lots are empty and, inside, the 12 elaborately equipped hangar bays are silent and dark. It is as if the owner of a lavishly furnished mansion had suddenly walked away, leaving everything in place.
 That is what happened. United Airlines got $320 million in taxpayer money to build what is by all accounts the most technologically advanced aircraft maintenance center in America. But six months ago, the company walked away, leaving the city and state governments out all that money, and no new tenant in sight. 
 The shuttered maintenance center is a stark, and unusually vivid, reminder of the risk inherent in gambling public money on corporate ventures. Yet the city and state are stepping up subsidies to other companies that offer, as United once did, to bring high-paying jobs and sophisticated operations to Indiana. Many municipal and state governments are doing the same, escalating a bidding war for a shrunken pool of jobs in America despite the worst squeeze in years on their budgets. 
Their hope is that the new employees at the subsidized companies will give back their incomes to the community in tax payments and spending, more than justifying the subsidies. Critics argue that the same tax dollars produce a greater return when they are channeled into education and public transportation, for example, rather than corporate ventures. They also say that subsidies distort markets: United, for example, might not have walked away so quickly if the $320 million had been its money, not the city's and state's.
And then there is the view, shared by Gov. Joseph E. Kernan of Indiana, that the subsidies are unnecessary, a bonus to companies that would set up shop anyway, at their own expense, without any subsidy. The national economy would benefit, if not a particular city's or state's.
That doesn't mean that Governor Kernan intends to stop offering subsidies. "I understand the argument that taking jobs away from Boston and putting them here is nationally a zero-sum game," he said. "But Indiana, like virtually every other state, is not going to unilaterally disarm."
Far from disarming, Indiana's legislature recently revamped the corporate tax structure -- in effect offering a reduction in a company's state tax bill -- as an incentive to locate in Indiana, or to remain here. With the United fiasco in mind, the emphasis is on tax credits, the governor said, rather than upfront "bricks and mortar investments in particular projects." Indianapolis, for its part, is giving generous support to big employers like Eli Lilly, the multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered here. Lilly is getting a $106 million package in exchange for a promise to invest $1 billion and add 7,500 jobs by 2009.
There is no official data on how much is distributed in subsidies across the country. Alan Peters, a professor of urban planning at the University of Iowa, and one or two other academics have tried to estimate the total loss of city and state tax revenue through abatements, lower income taxes, outright payments, training grants, wage subsidies and the like. Their estimates start at $30 billion a year and range up to $50 billion, with Mr. Peters putting the number somewhere in the $40 billions, based on a recent survey of tax expenditures.
"It seems like almost every state is giving away grandmother, grandfather, the family jewels, you name it, everything," Mr. Peters said. The anecdotal evidence of the escalating bidding war is greater than the statistical, he said.
The giveaways come in many forms. Iowa, for example, has just authorized $75 million a year until 2010 to finance subsidies to corporations. The State of Washington has offered Boeing a $3.2 billion subsidy package to locate the manufacture of its 7E7 airliner in the state. New York is creating more "Empire Zones," which are patches of land set aside in various counties where companies can locate nearly tax free. One way or another, the cities and states, in forfeiting more than $30 billion a year in tax revenue, are channeling to the private sector enough to hire 375,000 schoolteachers at $50,000 a year plus benefits.
Until the 1970's, the federal government financed most job-creation incentives. The emphasis was on regional development, the goal being to subsidize job creation in regions with high unemployment. But as the federal role withered and states and cities filled the void, the focus on high unemployment faded. "There is no pattern at all anymore in the distribution of subsidies," Mr. Peters said. 
Here in Indiana, where the giveaways top $150 million a year, the expectation was that United would by now employ more than 5,000 aircraft mechanics earning, on average, at least $25 an hour. And for a while in the late 1990's, the payroll approached 2,500 mechanics. 
The mechanics -- some trained locally, but the majority transfers from the airline's maintenance operations in California -- bought homes, went shopping, and paid property and income taxes. In time, the multiplier effect of their outlays would have justified the huge public subsidy, city and state officials argue, although the benefits were somewhat offset by the increased cost of educating the mechanics' children and providing other public services for those who relocated.
"Part of an economic development strategy includes bringing skilled people here from other cities, not just creating jobs for existing residents," said Melina Kennedy, the mayor's deputy for economic development. "I say that proudly."
United Airlines conceived of the center during a period of expansion in the early 1990's, when it was buying Boeing 737's and Airbus 320's and adding flights within the United States. The goal was to keep this growing fleet in the air, generating passenger revenue, with a minimum of downtime for maintenance. The new maintenance center would help to achieve this goal by reducing the number of days required for "heavy maintenance" -- the periodic dismantling and rebuilding of an airliner required by the Federal Aviation Administration.
Ninety-three cities bid for the center, and United finally settled on Indianapolis, promising to add $500 million of its own money to the $320 million that the city and state raised through bond issues. United's $500 million would go mainly into future expansion, and there was expansion. But in the end, the airline invested only $229 million. The city, operating through the Indianapolis Airport Authority, even owns the tools arrayed in each of the 12 hangar bays, ready for the next tenant.
United plainly drove a hard bargain. But the deal was signed during the 1990-91 recession, and the hard times encouraged the state to fold some Keynesian stimulus into the agreement, said Mark S. Moore, director of public finance for the state of Indiana, and one of the negotiators. "Whether we spent the dollars or United spent the dollars, let's not forget it was a recession," he said. "We put lots of people to work building that facility for a lot of years at good wages."
For a brief period in the late 1990's, United made a spectacular success of the maintenance center. It cut by a third or more the turnaround time for heavy maintenance, getting 737's back into the air in 20 days or less. Numerous special features built into the center helped to make this possible: the mechanized, snugly fitting scaffolds, for example, which gave the mechanics easy and rapid access to every inch of an aircraft's skin; the automated parts delivery system; the sophisticated climate control that kept the temperature at a constant 75 degrees throughout the cavernous structure, allowing for the use of composites in making repairs.
Would United Airlines have built such a fine center without public subsidies or tax forgiveness? A United spokesman, Jeff Green, declined to even address the question so many years after the fact. Mr. Moore acknowledged, however, that even without a subsidy, the airline probably would have built the center somewhere in the United States.
"They had a vision for this center that would have set standards for maintenance quality and turnaround time," Mr. Moore said. "Maybe that undercuts an argument for why we should have been there to help, but I do think United's view at the time was to do things right."
So the city and state gambled, and the gamble eventually went sour. Caught up in conflicts with the unionized mechanics and pushed into bankruptcy by the abrupt cutback in airline travel after Sept. 11, United turned to cost cutting to survive. Heavy maintenance was a victim. It went increasingly to private contractors in the South, who took longer to get the airliners back into service. But the cost of using them was low enough to offset the loss in passenger revenue, airline officials said.
Mechanics in the South earning a third of the wages and benefits paid to their counterparts in Indianapolis helped to make this possible -- and last April, United closed the Indianapolis center, laying off the last few hundred mechanics still there. Penalty payments built into the subsidy agreement failed to deter the airline's executives.
Mayor Bart Peterson and Ms. Kennedy had counted on United's contract with the International Association of Machinists to deter the airline from pulling out entirely. That agreement limited outsourcing of maintenance to 20 percent of the total, and because of it, the mayor and Ms. Kennedy thought that United would keep some internal maintenance. "That's the business we were fighting to keep here in Indianapolis," she said. "When they announced that they had actually negotiated a provision to let them outsource all of it, that really surprised us."
Now the city, through its Airport Authority, is searching for a new tenant. Several other airlines have rejected the authority's overtures. Like United, they are increasingly turning to private contractors, although American Airlines agreed last month to maintain its maintenance operation in Kansas City after the city and the state of Missouri gave them new subsidies.
Fresh subsidies are not publicly on the table in Indianapolis as the city and state hunt for a new tenant. The candidates include several private contractors, although they normally rent large empty hangars, which are in abundance in the United States. The machinists are among those seeking to operate the center, and Ben Nunnally, president of Local Lodge 2294, says many of his members would accept "significantly less" in wages to go back to work as mechanics at the center.
The city and state, meanwhile, are paying $34 million a year toward retiring the $320 million bond issue, and the Airport Authority is paying an additional $6 million a year to maintain the center, an outlay that United once shouldered, along with nearly $700,000 a year for the lease.
"I will tell you," Ms. Kennedy said, "that it is painful from the city's perspective to be paying debt service on the facility" and not have the jobs. "But having said that," she added, "it is what it is and now we are motivated, as we always have been, to fill the center."

GRAPHIC: Photo: United Airlines once estimated that 5,000 people would work at this building, now deserted, in Indianapolis. (Photo by A.J. Mast for The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE REPAIR & OVERHAUL (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); CORPORATE GIVING (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); CORPORATE TAX (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US); LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; INDIANAPOLIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); LEL (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KERNAN, JOSEPH E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) INDIANA

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



230 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Viewing California Politics Through the Lens of a Science Fiction Movie

BYLINE:  By BRENT STAPLES 

 BODY:
The pop-culture pastime of predicting the future through science fiction goes back at least as far as Jules Verne, the 19th-century novelist who foresaw space travel and cities beneath the sea. His view of the future is a picnic compared with the apocalyptic scenarios that dominate science fiction today. Civilization lies in ruins and what remains of the human race is enslaved by the murderous computer from the "Matrix" series or stalked by bone-crushing cyborgs like the one made famous by Arnold Schwarzenegger, the next California governor, in the first "Terminator" film.
 Los Angeles in the movies is regularly blown up, burned down or pillaged by aliens. (Life in Southern California recently must have been very much like a fiery disaster film.) But when Californians talk seriously about the future, they inevitably focus on "Blade Runner," the 1982 cult movie that made a star of its director Ridley Scott. It depicts the future of the Golden State as a civil liberties catastrophe where "replicants" (synthetic people) are mass produced as slaves, assassins and prostitutes. The replicants have disappeared from the discussion in real-world California, which tends to focus on the overall civic disaster depicted in the film. 
 The pollution is horrendous. The rich have withdrawn into fortress-style towers. The avenues teem with unruly, eccentrically dressed immigrants who speak a rough street language instead of English. References to these scenes show up everywhere, from books about politics to civic-planning documents like "L.A. 2000," a look at the future commissioned by Tom Bradley, when he was mayor of the city in the 1980's. The report warned that the region might deteriorate into a scene from "Blade Runner": a featureless sprawl seething with class and ethnic hostilities. In "A California State of Mind," the public-opinion analyst Mark Baldassare writes that Californians who were asked about the future "presented an image more like a nightmare than a utopia" -- descriptions that recalled a certain science-fiction movie.
"Blade Runner" exploits two primordial California fears. It depicts the state becoming part of an undifferentiated sprawl. It also plays into the fears of those Californians who think that the state will someday be dominated by immigrants who usurp the national language. Disquiet about the rising immigrant tide has been an undercurrent in California politics for at least 30 years. It was this sentiment that energized the ballot initiatives that outlawed affirmative action in public universities and bilingual education in public schools.
Fear of Blade Runnerization and the belief that the affluent should spend their tax dollars only on themselves have generated a pattern of civic secession. Wealthy and middle-class Californians have increasingly withdrawn into gated communities that thrive while the older, poorer counties they have fled struggle along on a diminished tax base. The people in the new, homogenous communities tend to be extreme localists who drop out of the broader civic life. When they do engage statewide politics, they tend to do it with ballot initiatives that slash tax revenues, hamstring the Legislature and generally cut the civic ties that bind citizens in one place to those at the far end of the state.
This secessionist impulse is as old as California. Proposals for breaking up the state have surfaced and resurfaced like clockwork but have mainly gone nowhere. The secessionists discovered a powerful tool with the passage of Proposition 13, which fueled the tax revolt when it capped property taxes in 1978. Proposition 13 was a secessionary act by homeowners and corporate landowners who were essentially saying that they wished to withdraw from the traditional system in which affluent citizens underwrite schools, social services and infrastructure used by the poor and working class.
Proposition-style campaigns proved the perfect tool for affluent communities to break off from older, poorer counties -- taking with them revenue-producing malls and businesses. The breakaway communities further impoverished the counties they left behind by expanding into land the counties had set aside for revenue-generating development that was all the more crucial after Proposition 13 made it nearly impossible to raise taxes. As the California writer Peter Schrag noted in "Paradise Lost," the new cities used planning and zoning authority to "keep poor and low-income housing out."
More than 60 communities have broken away since the 1970's. Many more attempted to do so. The Legislature slowed the defections by requiring that incorporations be revenue neutral, but the urge to secede continues, most notably in the San Fernando Valley, which is seeking to leave Los Angeles, taking with it a huge chunk of the city's population.
California's response to the pessimistic future in "Blade Runner" is a clear indication of what Californians fear and what might be in store for the rest of us if the appetite for secession spreads across the country. Bear in mind, however, that the breakaway communities in California have deepened the civic problems they hoped to flee. The barriers they erect destroy the ebb and flow through which newcomers have historically become part of the mainstream and moved into the middle class. The fortress-style villages -- with affluent whites shut up inside and immigrants outside the gates -- are hastening the development of the science-fiction scenario that terrified Californians in the first place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FILM (90%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (86%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (77%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (69%); BALLOTS (64%); REFERENDUMS (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%) STAPLES, BRENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

TITLE: BLADE RUNNER (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



231 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Sports teams havediscovered that they can put more spectators in the seats through online ticket sales.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
AS last week's earnings report from InterActiveCorp indicated, the growth of online ticket sales continues unabated. More than half of the $1.1 billion worth of tickets sold by the company's Ticketmaster division in the third quarter were bought online, reducing Ticketmaster's reliance on more capital-intensive sales channels like ticket outlets and telephone banks.
 And just as the Internet has proved a boon to Ticketmaster and competing brokers like Tickets.com, so too has it helped entertainment businesses and sports franchises fill seats that might otherwise have gone unsold. 
 The National Basketball Association's Memphis Grizzlies are a case in point. The team moved from Vancouver, British Columbia, in 2001 after a feeble six-year tenure there. It settled into the 21,000-seat Pyramid, and is planning a new $250 million arena, the FedEx Forum, scheduled to open in Memphis next year. 
In either arena, the Grizzlies face the challenge of selling seats for one of the worst teams in the league, playing in the N.B.A.'s smallest market. Mike Golub, the team's senior vice president for business operations, said that because the Grizzlies must attract fans from well beyond their metropolitan area, the Internet has become an important sales tool.
"This technology makes our region smaller," Mr. Golub said. By e-mailing 25,000 people on the team's e-mail newsletter list, as well as past customers, with news about coming games and other Memphis-area events, he said, fans are more likely to make the trip. "People around here are conditioned to driving five hours for a game," he said. 
It is difficult to quantify the Web's effect on sales, he said. But e-mail alerts and other online features -- like one that enables groups to buy and manage tickets in bulk -- have "helped fill seats, no question."
The Web will also be instrumental in helping the Grizzlies sell advance-purchase seats at the new arena, Mr. Golub said. Using a service by Ballena Technologies, the Grizzlies plan to begin enabling prospective ticket buyers for the 2004-05 season to see 360-degree views from any section in the arena, including the 59 luxury suites.
"You can talk all day about the new sight lines in the Forum, but until you demonstrate it with this tool, it won't really hit home," Mr. Golub said. "Fans get very emotionally invested in their seats. It's like buying a new home, just not necessarily the same price. Well, in some cases, maybe."
Indeed, luxury suites at the new arena will sell for $99,000 to $225,000 for a 41-game regular home season.
The Grizzlies are hardly unique in their reliance on the Web. According to N.B.A. executives, online sales represent 70 percent of all non-box-office ticket sales. "For tickets sold remotely, it's far and away the preferred medium," said Bernie Mullen, the NBA's senior vice president for marketing and team business operations.
Among other things, Mr. Mullen said, the Internet has reduced ticket buyers' reliance on scalpers, thanks to technologies that allow ticket holders to forward unused tickets to friends, or sell them online. 
With services like Ticket Forwarding, which is provided by Ticketmaster, ticket holders, for a transaction fee of about $2, e-mail a digital version of their ticket to a recipient. In the handoff, Ticketmaster voids the bar code on the original ticket and issues a new one to the recipient, who then prints out the ticket and bar code from the computer. Bar code scanners at the ticket gate validate the ticket.
The N.B.A. is also working with Ticketmaster to study the buying history of its fans, and it sends e-mail alerts about games they may be interested in, said Brenda Spoonemore, senior vice president for interactive services at the league's entertainment division.
Other sports leagues are also enamored with online ticket sales, even in cases where such sales might seem superfluous. The New York Giants football team have sold out every game since it moved to Giants Stadium in 1976, and have about 23,500 people on its season ticket waiting list.
Yet John Mara, the Giants' executive vice president and chief operating officer, said Internet ticket sales were a potentially important tool in reducing no-shows. The economic effects of no-shows are significant. Parking alone costs $10 to $15 a car, and the team receives 25 to 30 percent of stadium concession sales.
Last month, the Giants were the first National Football League team to roll out Ticketmaster's TeamExchange service, an online auction that works similarly to Ticket Forwarding, except that recipients pay a percentage fee above the face value of the ticket. 
As of late last week, about 500 tickets had been resold for the team's first three home games, but the feature could grow in importance, Mr. Mara said, depending on the team's performance. 
"It's not unusual late in the year for us to have 5,000 or 10,000 no-shows," Mr. Mara said. "If it's a poor season, that number could go way up." 
No-shows are more problematic for the National Hockey League, which depends heavily on parking and concession revenue because the money it receives from television rights is much less than that of the N.F.L., N.B.A. and Major League Baseball. Scott Carmichael, vice president for club relations for the N.H.L., said about 90 percent of the league's fans have online access, and more than 60 percent of single-game purchasers now buy their tickets over the Web.
"We'll see that 60 percent number continue to climb as this technology evolves," Mr. Carmichael said.
Beyond sports, music fans have also been quick to migrate to online ticket purchases, said Chris Hearne, the executive vice president for tickets and customer services at Clear Channel Entertainment. Clear Channel, which owns or operates more than 125 arenas and other entertainment sites in the United States and abroad, will sell more than $1 billion in tickets online this year, or more than half its total, Mr. Hearne said. 
Clear Channel relies on Ticketmaster to provide ticketing services in most of its locations. 
Mr. Hearne said Clear Channel's online sales efforts "have allowed us to do things that were never before possible," like e-mailing last-minute offers for concert tickets, merchandise and backstage meetings with band members. One such offer this summer, auctioned by Clear Channel on eBay during the Lollapalooza tour, resulted in the sale of 10 tickets for an average of $900 each.
Ticket auctions have been a source of controversy since Ticketmaster introduced a service last month allowing entertainment sites to sell seats to the highest bidders. Clear Channel tested the service with a Sting concert in October in New York -- with prices averaging about $90 in the 1,680-seat Hammerstein Ballroom. But the company is "moving very carefully with this," Mr. Hearne said. "We're most concerned about pricing tickets out of the reach of fans."
David Goldberg, Ticketmaster's executive vice president for strategy and business development, said none of the company's clients was currently planning another auction. "They're approaching it cautiously," he said, "probably rightfully so." 
But, Mr. Goldberg said, lost in the speculation that people might be forced to buy the best seats for $1,000 at auction is the idea that the new system might benefit other fans. By his reasoning, if people paid the venue higher prices for the best seats, rather than buying them from scalpers or brokers, the remaining seats could be offered at lower prices. 
"The biggest story shouldn't be that someone paid $1,000 for a front row seat," he said. "It should be that because of that person, someone else was able to see the show in the last row for $5. And those seats might've gone empty."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernie Mullin and Brenda Spoonemore, senior executives for the N.B.A., with an online service from Ballena Technologies that enables prospective ticket buyers to see views from the seats. Seventy percent of the N.B.A.'s non-box-office tickets are sold online. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (94%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); TICKET AGENCIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES 

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (92%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES (91%); VANCOUVER GRIZZLIES (83%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (91%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



232 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1763 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Europe Exceeds U.S. in Refining Grid Computing

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF and JENNIFER L. SCHENKER 

 BODY:
When the Swiss-based pharmaceutical giant Novartis needed a new supercomputer for designing drugs, the company found it already had one. It was hidden in the unused computing power the company had available in the thousands of PC's that were already being used in its offices.
 Novartis used American software technology to harness the power of its office personal computers, but European and American scientists and government officials said that Europe was moving faster than the United States to capitalize on the approach, which is called grid computing. 
 Grids lash individual computers together, tapping their unused power to tackle complex computing chores beyond the scope of isolated processors. They are being called upon by scientists and corporations for a variety of applications, including building low cost supercomputers and creating work groups that can span cities or even the globe. 
The shift underscores more than a new style of computing. It also signals a new reality in the transfer of computer technologies. The global Internet is accelerating the rate at which new technologies can be deployed anywhere, frequently shortening or even erasing the certainty of American technological leadership.
"Europe has decided that this is a real competitive advantage," said Peter A. Freeman, assistant director of the National Science Foundationhere for computer and information science and engineering. "And they are going after it."
Novartis used software by United Devices of Austin, Tex., to link 2,700 desktop personal computers to help create drugs. This summer the company said that it had discovered several promising new chemical molecules with its grid and it planned to expand the system to its entire corporate network of 70,000 personal computers.
Europe's rush to grids underscores cultural and political differences between it and the United States, technologists in each area say. While American universities and companies often lead the innovation parade, the United States sometimes becomes hamstrung in putting new technologies into use by a proliferation of competing computing and telecommunications standards and by government reluctance to orchestrate industrial policies. 
By contrast, European governments have traditionally been more effective in deploying unified standards and concentrating on technologies that appear to offer an economic advantage. But that extra help can lead to big mistakes, occasionally pushing technologies so far ahead of the market that they never deliver a reasonable payoff.
Cellphone networks are an example of the difference. Although the technology was invented in the United States, the current European digital cellular networks are generally acknowledged to offer superior service. But Europe's telecom companies have wasted tens of billions of dollars buying the rights to deliver third generation, or 3-G, cellphone services that have generated little interest. With grid computing, Europe may have as much as an 18-month lead in deploying the advances in practical ways, European scientists and government officials said.
While the United States is beginning to respond to a report in February from the National Science Foundation Advisory Panel on Cyberinfrastructure urging coordinated investment in grid technologies, the European Union is preparing to start two major initiatives in early 2004.
One, called Enabling Grids for E-science in Europe, aims to build the largest international grid infrastructure to date, operating in more than 70 institutions throughout Europe, providing 24-hour grid service and a computing capacity comparable to 20,000 of today's most powerful personal computers.
The other is a distributed supercomputing project, led by France's National Center for Scientific Research, that will connect seven supercomputers in Europe at optical network speeds, getting a leg up on the TeraGrid project in the United States, which aims to connect the nation's major supercomputer sites.
"The goal is to establish Europe as one of the most dynamic and creative environment in the world to deploy grid-enabled infrastructures," said Mario Campolargo, director for the research infrastructure unit at the European Commission in Brussels.
The strategy appears to be leading toward accelerating the deployment of commercial projects like the Novartis grid.
There are a "number of research-oriented organizations in Europe that have made significant early progress," said Andy Butler, a vice president for enterprise systems in the London office of the Gartner Group, a technology research firm. Europe's advances, he added, mean "vendors like I.B.M., Sun and Hewlett-Packard have made a lot of their early progress in Europe, as opposed to the U.S." 
The Europeans also have the advantage of a clearer road map than in the United States, where planning for computing and networking infrastructure is scattered throughout the federal government.
"The European Union has a 5-to 10-year strategic plan finalized," said Larry Smarr, a grid computing pioneer who runs an institute associated with the San Diego and Irvine campuses of the University of California. "This is a slap in the face and a wake-up call that things have gone global."
The Hewlett-Packard Company, for example, said last week that it had joined BAE Systems, a British maker of aerospace and defense systems; Cardiff University; the University of Wales, Swansea; and the Institute of High Performance Computing in Singapore to use grid computing for advanced, collaborative simulation and visualization in aerospace and defense design.
The project is being paid for in part by Britain's Department of Trade and Industry and will try to solve computer security problems when using a grid because businesses like BAE need to control what information should be protected from outsiders.
When it comes to grid projects "geared towards getting real applications running, there are probably more in Europe," said Martin Walker, an executive at Hewlett-Packard involved in technical computing for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 
The British government is helping to lead that drive: It is supporting a variety of projects, including the Diagnostic Mammography National Database project, which received matching funds from I.B.M. and aims to use grid computing to create a new model for scanning, storing and analyzing mammograms.
"The nice thing about" the project "is that it is linked to the government's e-science program, not just a random collection of work," said Brian Carpenter, an engineer in the storage and networking section of the I.B.M. Systems Group. The link with the government means "there is a very good chance that it will be integrated into the national health care system," he said.
The British government alone will spend $335 million on grid computing from 2000 to 2005, said John M. Taylor, director general of research councils in the Britain's Office of Science and Technology and a former director of Hewlett-Packard Laboratories Bristol, the European arm of the company's long-range research laboratories.
"The technology is mostly still coming from the U.S.," said Ian Foster, associate division director for the distributed systems lab at Argonne National Laboratory in Argonne, Ill. "What is happening now -- which is either good or worrisome, depending on your perspective -- is that there is a tremendous amount of investment in the European Union."
Beyond money from individual governments, the European Union is expected to spend $428 million from 2002 through 2006 to upgrade the grid's infrastructure. Unlike in the United States, all the projects have fixed objectives and private sector partners.
Grid backers argue that lagging American planning and financial support is an issue in part because of evidence that the creation of computing grids will have a direct economic impact. Last month, a study released by the Rural Internet Access Authority, a North Carolina economic development group with industry backing, estimated that deployment of an advanced computing grid in the state would add more than $10 billion and 24,000 jobs through 2010.
The United States is ahead on one front: it has made the most progress in the deployment of computing grids for scientific applications like studying earthquake risks. Next year, the TeraGrid project is expected to offer computing speeds of up to 20 trillion mathematical operations a second and the ability to store a petabyte of information -- about what could be saved on 25,000 standard personal computer hard drives.
Europe's equivalent effort, Openlab, involving I.B.M. and a research center in Switzerland for the Geneva-based European Organization for Nuclear Research, known by its French acronym, CERN, is not expected to reach the same level until 2005.
But the Europeans are racing ahead in developing faster optical networks. A CERN-Caltech team set an Internet 2 Land Speed Record recently by transferring 1.1 trillion bytes of data in less than 30 minutes. 
Such transfer speeds were "not even thinkable a year ago," said Flavia Donno, the computer scientist in charge of physics experiments on the grid for CERN. 
Now the Europeans are ready to move to 40 gigabits a second, relying in part on what is known as dark fiber, unused high speed fiber optic infrastructure. The test beds will allow scientists and businesses to share information and computer infrastructure in real time.
The work being done in Europe is much more concentrated on building something that is ready for end-users than are the grid projects in the United States, said Dr. Donno, who worked with American scientists to build the first interoperable grid between Europe and the United States. With Europe ahead in getting large applications running, American scientists have asked for a role in the Enabling Grids for E-science in Europe project. But because European research and development programs do not normally provide financial support for American participation, the Europeans are asking the National Science Foundation to contribute to the project. Mr. Freeman, the foundation official, met recently with European Commission officials on the issue.
"I hope they will find an agreement that is a good balance between national competitiveness and international cooperation," said Fabrizio Gagliardi, project leader of the European DataGrid middleware project. There is "so much to be gained if we join forces," he said. "We need a worldwide infrastructure so that we can really work to solve basic problems like the energy crisis and sustainable development."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marina Jirotka, a computer scientist, uses the Digital Mammography National Database, which Britain backs, at Oxford. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (86%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (72%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (94%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (94%); NOVN (SWX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%)

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; SCHENKER, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



233 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Oldest Living Start-Up Tells All 

BYLINE:  BySTEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: LOS GATOS, Calif. 

 BODY:
RFco Inc. is a paradox: a hot new Silicon Valley start-up, with plenty of history. The nugget of innovation that RFco, a semiconductor company, is trying to commercialize has its roots in the mid-1990's. The search for venture financing took more than two years. And the company's top five executives are all about 60 years old.
 "This is probably the oldest start-up ever funded," said Rich Forte, 60, the chief executive of RFco. 
 Jim Kubinec, the 63-year-old chief technology officer, recalls being recruited to Fairchild Semiconductor in 1964 by Robert Noyce, co-inventor of the integrated circuit and later a founder of Intel. A Stanford-educated electrical engineer, Mr. Kubinec at the time left a job at Lockheed to take a chance on the fledgling semiconductor business. 
"I've been a 'chip head,' silicon under my nails, ever since," he said. 
Mr. Kubinec met Mr. Forte at Fairchild Semiconductor nearly four decades ago, "when we were both young men," Mr. Kubinec said.
The executives at RFco are part of a renaissance of analog and radio frequency technology brought about by the rapid expansion in wireless communications including cellphones, hand-held devices and Wi-Fi computer networks. 
"If what RFco is doing pans out, it will really disrupt things," said Greg Galanos, executive managing director of Mobius Venture Capital, an investor in RFco.
Beginning with Marconi's first experiments in the late 19th century, wireless communication has involved radio transmissions of electromagnetic energy, or radiation, over the air. But what has stirred the interest of 21st-century venture capitalists in so-called radio frequency chip companies, like RFco, is their potential in the next generation of cellphones. 
Increasingly, modern cellphones are sophisticated bundles of radios and computers, equipped with tiny cameras, video screens and music players.
The computer brains of these advanced devices are microprocessors, which rapidly process data represented digitally as 1's and 0's. Yet the radios and the microelectronic devices for capturing and rendering sights and sounds of the real world -- photo images, a person speaking or music playing -- are typically analog. That is, they translate the images or voices into an analogous electronic pattern.
Throughout the 1980's and early 1990's, digital technology was seen to have eclipsed analog, which was regarded as an artifact. Yet the surprising proliferation of cellphones in the 1990's helped revive interest in radio frequency and analog technology. 
And, in a hint of paradox, analog has been pulled back into the mainstream partly because of the rapid pace of innovation in digital technology.
As digital equipment gets ever-faster and smaller, it becomes more than a calculating machine handling numbers and text. To capture and present images and sounds in digital devices like cameras, music players and cellphones, the digital gadgets need an assist from analog technology. 
No wonder the computer science and electrical engineering departments of leading universities are taking analog computing seriously again.
"The digital revolution has turned out to be an analog revolution as well," said Thomas H. Lee, an associate professor of electrical engineering at Stanford University. "So there has been a resurgence in analog and radio frequency teaching."
RFco is one of several start-ups trying to ride that revolution by making low-power chips that can handle all kinds of radio frequencies for data and voice transmission.
The ideal would be able to handle the main cellphone transmission formats, GSM and CDMA, as well as the wireless Internet access format Wi-Fi, along with Bluetooth, a short-range wireless format that would make it easy to share data between a phone and a computer. And to do all that on a single chip, offering seamless communication.
For cellphone makers, such a chip would make it possible to produce a "world phone," which could receive and send calls from anywhere. It would give the cellphone makers huge economies of scale. And for consumers it would be a big step forward in convenience.
That is the long-term goal for radio frequency, or R.F., chip companies. Analysts agree that it will be a daunting challenge, but that success could be very lucrative. And while venture investment in information technology start-ups in the United States continues to be weak, it has been picking up in some fields.
"Low-power R.F. chips is one of the areas that is generating a lot of excitement," said Richard Shaffer, editor of VentureWire, a newsletter that tracks venture investment.
According to Mr. Shaffer's newsletter, which is published by Dow Jones, eight R.F. chip start-ups have raised a total of $150 million so far this year.
Two months ago, RFco announced its existence, emerging from "stealth mode," in Silicon Valley jargon, and saying that it had raised $16.5 million in a first round of financing from four venture capital firms: Allegis Capital, Advanced Technology Ventures, Mobius Venture Capital and Technology Associates Management Company.
For competitive reasons, RFco executives and their venture backers are still reluctant to discuss their proprietary technology in much detail. Even if everything goes right, they note, and RFco's concept is workable in silicon, the company will not have a product on the market until 2005.
Yet they do say that RFco is pursuing "a revolutionary architecture" in the design of low-power, radio frequency chips. The design, Mr. Kubinec said, is intended to make radio chips malleable and programmable as never before, just as the programmable microprocessor brought a new level of versatility to digital logic chips in the early 1970's, opening the door to the personal computer. 
"Is it a big risk?" said Mr. Galanos, at Mobius Venture Capital. "It is. But I looked at other R.F. chips companies, and this is radically different."
Mr. Kubinec first glimpsed the concept in 1996 when he was a research fellow at Advanced Micro Devices and served as an adviser to Stanford, reviewing inventions generated by professors to see if they were worth trying to patent. Two professors, Bruce Lusignan and Bruce Wooley, had an idea for a programmable, low-power radio chip. At the time, Mr. Kubinec recalled thinking, "Boy, that's the holy grail."
Mr. Kubinec, an expert in communications chips, worked in the communications division of Advanced Micro, and he persuaded his boss, Mr. Forte, who was then a senior vice president, to agree to buy a two-year option to license the technology, time enough to build a prototype chip to see if it worked. Mr. Forte gave the nod, and Advanced Micro pursued it.
The result was promising. But in 1998, Advanced Micro closed down the unit that made communications chips, as a way to conserve moneyneeded to focus on challenging Intel in the personal computer microprocessor business. So all rights to the technology reverted back to Stanford. 
Mr. Kubinec had left Advanced Micro and in 1999 was consulting for Silicon Valley investors. When one of them asked him to look at a radio chip idea, he met with Mark Cummings, a former researcher at SRI International, who, unbeknownst to Mr. Kubinec, had followed the Stanford research since the start and had licensed the rights after Advanced Micro walked away. 
Mr. Kubinec joined Mr. Cummings, and the two set off to put together a team and find venture financing for the start-up. It proved a struggle. "When we started, the only thing people wanted to fund was dot-coms," recalled Mr. Cummings, who runs a specialized investment firm that has a stake in RFco. 
Later, when the dot-com bubble burst, the venture capital firms were so consumed with closing down wayward start-ups and retrenching that they had no interest in making new commitments. And the chaos in Silicon Valley lasted longer than the start-up team had hoped.
Three times, RFco had reached agreements with venture capital firms, and three times the firm backed off -- in one case while Mr. Cummings and Mr. Kubinec were waiting to hear from their bank that the money had indeed been transferred.
But things began to change last year, as venture capitalists became increasingly interested in the wireless field and radio frequency chips. Mr. Forte joined the company this January, giving RFco a further boost.
"That really put us over the top," Mr. Kubinec said, "because Rich is a senior semiconductor executive with a proven track record." 
There is, of course, no assurance that RFco will succeed. Another radio frequency chip start-up, Ditrans, folded in August after a reported $25 million had been invested in it. After it missed a technical target in a prototype test, the venture backers decided that going forward would be too lengthy, costly and risky.
"It just wasn't going to make it," explained Geoffrey Baehr, a venture partner at U.S. Venture Partners, an investor in Ditrans. "Trying to build these flexible, multimodal R.F. chips is excruciatingly difficult, and no one has done it yet."
RFco is supposed to get a prototype silicon wafer back from the I.B.M. microelectronics factory in Burlington, Vt., next month. Like other radio frequency chip start-ups, RFco is a so-called fabless semiconductor company, meaning that it farms out the chip fabrication to a contract manufacturer. Then, it will begin testing whether its design innovation really works.
"We're still in the prove-it mode," Mr. Forte said. "But this is a real interesting proposition. It brought me out of retirement."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day last Monday about a Silicon Valley start-up company that is developing a radiofrequency semiconductor misidentified the first 19th-century experimenter in radio transmission. He was Nikola Tesla, not Guglielmo Marconi.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The management team at RFco, a Silicon Valley start-up: Ralph Cognac, chief marketing and sales officer; Rich Forte, chief executive; Jim Kubinec, chief technology officer; Nathan Silberman, vice president of engineering. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Graph: "Cash Flow, and Ebb"Graph tracks venture capital investments in information technology start-ups in the United States each quarter since 1993. (Source by VentureWire) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); STARTUPS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (73%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (73%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); PHYSICS (69%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (66%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; VENTURE CAPITAL 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RFCO INC 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



234 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week 

 BODY:
 The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills. According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 0.95 percent and the rate on the six-month issue at 1.07 percent. The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

WEDNESDAY
Dallas, $173.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Missouri Highways and Transportation, $254 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

THURSDAY
Nevada Water Pollution Control, $63.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Norfolk, Va., $63.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
California Health Facilities Finance Authority, $60 million of debt securities for Cottage Health System Obligated Group. Morgan Stanley.
Catholic Health East, $71.9 million of health system revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Colorado Springs, $160 million of utility revenue bonds. UBS Financial Services.
El Dorado, Calif., $74 million of irrigation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Hollywood, Fla., $114 million of water and sewer revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Huntsville, Ala., $52 million of go warrants. Morgan Keegan & Co.
Manchester, N.H., $86 million of general obligation bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation, $225 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Rhode Island Economic Development, $52 million of security bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Santa Clara, Calif., Transportation Authority, $150 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); WATER POLLUTION (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (67%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CATHOLIC HEALTH EAST (56%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (52%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



235 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Children at the Borders: Why Are They Endangered? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Littlest Immigrants, Left in Hands of Smugglers" (front page, Nov. 3): To the letter writers who will undoubtedly reaffirm the right's lack of sympathy for illegal immigrants and their children, let me remind you: without illegal immigrants, our economy would cease to function. 
 If the United States government spent half as much effort prosecuting the businesses and farms that are employers of illegals as they do patrolling the border and pursuing "coyotes," the smugglers who lead the children across the border, the entire "problem" would disappear.
Until then, for the sake of humanity, let these children be with their parents!

JORIAN P. SCHUTZ
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (88%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) 

PERSON: Jorian P Schutz

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



236 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: For Colombia's Ascetic Leader, Signs That Violence Is Easing 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia Nov. 9

 BODY:
For years, Colombia's drug-fueled conflict raged, with Marxist rebels and right-wing paramilitaries gaining ground and growing ever more violent as the United States spent billions trying to control the mayhem.
 But now, 15 months in office into a four-year term, President Alvaro Uribe is taking actions that suggest he is ready to be bolder than past leaders in dealing with this country's seemingly intractable violence. 
 Unlike his predecessors, who proved ineffectual at taming the war, Mr. Uribe has come up with a coherent plan that sets out how Colombia might be extricated from its morass. 
Under his "democratic security program," steps have been taken to weaken the rebels, disarm the death squads and install a state presence in long forgotten regions of this country of 40 million people. 
Even after a setback last month in a referendum, Mr. Uribe continues to enjoy what the experts call a remarkable level of support, with one poll taken days after the Oct. 25 vote showing him with the same approval rating as before, 77 percent. In theory, that support gives him the political leverage to follow through on his bold program.
In practice, however, Mr. Uribe is facing some new obstacles because the referendum defeat denied him the greater control over state spending that he had sought. Last week, his interior minister, Fernando Londono, blamed by some for having failed to garner enough support for the referendum, resigned. Then on Sunday night, the government announced that the defense minister, Martha Lucia Ramirez, had stepped down.
The right-leaning president must now find new sources of revenue for his security program through taxes and cost-cutting measures while dealing with a redrawn political landscape that includes a more assertive Congress and a leftist mayor of the Colombian capital, Luis Eduardo Garzon.
"He has to adapt to the other reality," said Fernando Cepeda, a former government minister and political expert. "He has to show flexibility. If not, he could crash."
Colombia is far from resolving a 39-year-long conflict that is estimated to have taken 200,000 lives. Mr. Uribe is criticized by some human rights groups, foreign diplomats and members of the United States Congress, who say that his program has led to a spike in arbitrary detentions and that a proposed antiterrorism law will curb freedoms.
A proposed law that would effectively grant impunity for right-wing militia members, his critics say, could be seen as rewarding rights abuses, though the government portrays it as the first step toward disarming the 13,000-member force. 
Mr. Uribe, who is regarded by many Bush administration officials as a dependable caretaker of United States interests, can point to some success in pacifying the country. Homicides, which topped 32,000 in the last year of the previous government, have fallen 16 percent, and kidnappings are down 22 percent. Mass killings of villagers -- what Colombia's government calls massacres -- have also dropped.
The United States has spent $2.5 billion since 2000 to help Colombia combat drugs and rebels. For some time, it seemed the return on that money was slight. Now, it appears, the investment is helping to bring some results.
"President Uribe is an exceptional leader," said Roger F. Noriega, the assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs. "Our policy is working. Coca production, violence, guerrilla attacks are all down across the board over the past year, and that's a remarkable achievement."
Colombia has pulled itself from a long recession, exceeding predictions and posting a 3 percent economic growth rate last year. Economists say that the country is beginning to restore investor confidence, largely because of Mr. Uribe's image as a prudent fiscal manager bent on establishing security.
It helps that the president and his advisers cast him as a workaholic, uncompromising wartime president who makes tough choices and avoids the usual trappings of power.
Gone are the big state dinners and long trips to European capitals. Instead, Colombia has a president who practices yoga and rises to work before dawn.
He is passionate about Colombia's soft-gaited paso fino horses, but he has not been to a movie theater in years, nor does he drink or dance, odd behavior to most Colombians.
"His style is frenetic," said Myles Frechette, a former American ambassador here. "He gets up early in the morning, calls his ministers. He calls the generals, something that was never done before, telling them, 'You screwed up, why didn't you do this, why didn't you do that?' "
The president has garnered much of his support through a public relations campaign that for months has included town hall meetings in the far corners of the country. In the run-up to the referendum, he appeared on morning television programs and even on Colombia's version of the reality show "Big Brother."
These gestures have helped erase memories of Andres Pastrana, his immediate predecessor, under whose administration violence spiraled out of control, and of Ernesto Samper's corruption-riddled presidency, which ended in 1998. 
Mr. Uribe's accomplishments have mostly come on the security front, where he has increased the military budget with a tax unthinkable in the past and had appointed Ms. Ramirez, a tough, sometimes abrasive defense minister, to push a once lethargic army to combat rebels.
He has also allowed the United States to do as it wishes to accomplish its goal of wiping out the vast fields of coca used to make cocaine. The United Nations forecasts that American-financed aerial spraying will reduce coca plantings 50 percent this year, though cultivation again appears to be shifting south to Bolivia and Peru. 
Military analysts and American officials say the president's aggressive approach is whittling away profits from the cocaine trade that finance the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or the FARC, the country's largest rebel group. Desertions are up and all-out attacks on isolated towns have dropped off. 
"It is feeling pressure and will feel more in the future," said an American official who closely tracks the conflict here. 
Mr. Uribe's trips to rural provinces torn by war have helped solidify his message of control, even though the FARC has tried to assassinate him several times.
In August, after rebels fired on his helicopter, he continued to his destination, the northern town of Granada. "We are never going to go from here," Mr. Uribe told 2,000 villagers who came to hear him. "The FARC has to get out of here, as from all of Colombia." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (90%) FORERO, JUAN; URIBE, ALVARO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (91%) COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



237 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Stability Itself Is the Enemy 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
For years, Osama bin Laden called for the violent overthrow of the Saudi royal family for allowing American bases in the holiest land of Islam.
 But with American forces gone, the bombs continue to explode -- signaling that the withdrawal did not address the deeper grievances among the hardened Saudi militants who were behind the car bomb attack in Riyadh late on Saturday. Those militants are now seeking to exploit the opposition that is growing within Saudi Arabia to a dynasty long immune to political challenge. 
 What seems ever more apparent in the attack in Riyadh that left at least 17 people dead and 122 wounded is that it is no longer Americans or even Westerners who are the targets of terrorism in Saudi Arabia, but rather stability itself in the oil-producing kingdom, as well as the writ of the House of Saud. 
With targets like government ministries and diplomatic quarters heavily guarded, the bombers may have opted for blowing up a relatively unprotected housing compound associated with Western lifestyles and foreign influence to make their point.
"I think they are after the royal family," said Wyche Fowler Jr., a former senator who was ambassador to Saudi Arabia from October 1997 to February 2001. "There is a determined fight to rattle the government if not bring it down."
A prominent Saudi who advises the royal household agreed. "This is an effort to destabilize the regime," he said. "It's against the monarchy and it is against the government."
As such, the terror campaign is merging with the domestic struggle over political reform in the conservative kingdom, where demonstrations against the royal family in Mecca last month showed a new boldness among opposition forces.
Though Saudi officials were quick to blame Al Qaeda for the bombing, it was difficult even for Saudis to distinguish where domestic political opposition ends and the goals of the current terrorist campaign begin. But the danger for the Saudi royal family, analysts said, was that the growing ranks of domestic opponents to the monarchy would adopt the violent tactics of Al Qaeda, or look to its members for leadership.
"I think that is the ultimate concern of the Saudis," Mr. Fowler said. "I think that is why they are being so thorough to uncover these cells and eliminate them."
The threat to the royal family has mobilized security forces who have used increasingly aggressive tactics and firepower during the summer to break up terrorist plots and to seize large caches of explosives and ammunition. The tactics have shocked the public in their scale and volume. 
To counter both domestic political opposition and the terrorist instinct that courses through dissident mosques, Crown Prince Abdullah, the day-to-day ruler of the royal family, has tried to accelerate some political reforms. But he is offering far less than even the most centrist opponents demand.
Last month, the government announced that elections for municipal offices would be organized next year and, more recently, the crown prince opened for television coverage the deliberations of the consultative assembly, whose members he appoints. While the steps he has taken or talked about draw derisive comments -- as in: too little, too late -- from Saudi dissidents, the crown prince is regarded as the most reform-minded among the sons of King Abdul Aziz bin Saud, who unified the warring tribes of the Arabia Peninsula and created the Saudi state. 
The bombing in Riyadh was the second major strike in the new campaign and the largest attack since those of the mid-1990's directed at Western and American military targets. It destroyed homes in a compound inhabited mostly by expatriates from other Muslim countries, though some Westerners were among the wounded. 
On May 12, a larger and more coordinated assault force set off a series of car bombs in three Riyadh housing complexes whose residents were mostly Saudi, but included American and other foreign workers. The explosions killed 34 people, including 8 Americans and 9 attackers.
"May 12 was the inevitable wake up call," said Judith Kipper, director of Middle East programs at the Council on Foreign Relations. Since then, as Ms. Kipper pointed out, Saudi security authorities have mobilized a significant campaign under the interior ministry to arrest religious figures who have preached violence and to disrupt the flow of illicit arms to people who would use them for terrorist attacks.
"It's going to take some time to dig them all out," she said. 
The role of the United States in this struggle may prove to be crucial, analysts said, but the kingdom has come under assault at a time when the Bush administration's relations with Saudi Arabia have been troubled by two years of recriminations over the prominent role that some Saudis played in the Sept. 11 attacks and the Saudi money that has flowed, wittingly and unwittingly, to organizations and charities connected to terrorist groups.
Last week, President Bush admonished Saudi Arabia and Egypt to take concrete steps toward democracy in a speech widely viewed in the Arab world more as hectoring for domestic effect in the United States than constructive statesmanship abroad.
But it is also true that Mr. Bush was articulating a deeply held view among conservatives in his administration: that American power and influence, recently exercised in Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein, should be used to advance the horizons of democracy, not just to protect American national interest by securing strategic commodities, like the oil resources of the Persian Gulf. 
While Crown Prince Abdullah continues to welcome American intelligence in the campaign against terrorism, it is unlikely that the Saudi ruler will want publicly stated advice or assistance on how to conduct political reform from Mr. Bush, whose bluntness lacks the subtleties to which Saudis are accustomed in foreign relations. 
In Riyadh on Sunday, Richard L. Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, struck a supportive tone, one that seemed to emphasize American hope than certainty. 
"We have the utmost faith," he said, "that the direction chosen for this nation by Crown Prince Abdullah, the political and economic reforms, will not be swayed by these horrible terrorists."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard L. Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, met with Crown Prince Abdullah, right, on Sunday to voice American support for the royal family. Mr. Armitage said Al Qaeda was behind Saturday's bombing. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FAMILY (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (55%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ROYAL FAMILY; TERRORISM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%) TYLER, PATRICK E; FOWLER, WYCHE JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) SAUDI ARABIA; RIYADH (SAUDI ARABIA); MECCA (SAUDI ARABIA)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



238 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Brazil Meet in Effort To Ease Coming Trade Talks 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
Hoping tohead off another breakdown in trade talks, the United States and Brazil came to an understanding over the weekend that top officials said could increase the prospects for some success at hemisphere-wide trade talks next week in Miami.
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, invited Celso Amorim, the Brazilian foreign minister and his co-chairman of the Free Trade of the Americas summit meeting, to private talks here, and they worked out what officials called a set of ideas to frame the negotiations in Miami, set to begin next Sunday. 
 While there was no breakthrough on the substantive issues dividing the two countries, the agreement to work together amounted to a truce in a stormy relationship that had worsened with the breakdown of global trade talks in Cancun in September.
The truce may represent a belated acknowledgment by the Bush administration of significant opposition in the United States to the proposed free trade area. Opponents in this country fear that a free trade agreement would cause job losses and a declining standard of living. 
According to Mr. Amorim, he and Mr. Zoellick agreed to focus on opening markets by lowering tariffs rather than to continue battling for the moment over Brazil's demand for a reduction in American farm subsidies and the United States' insistence on devising new rules that cover intellectual property rights, government procurement and foreign investment for the hemisphere.
"We know the limitations that exist to having an elimination of subsidies in agriculture," said Mr. Amorim. "We've heard it one hundred times, and finally we understand."
If Brazil made such a major concession, he said, then the United States would have to allow countries to opt out of new rules for intellectual property rights and the other American concerns.
"Those are global issues, too, and it may be more practical to discuss them at the World Trade Organization," he said. "There must be flexibility for our areas, too."
The two men met with 12 other North and South American ministers in informal talks setting the stage for the 34-member summit meeting. 
"I think we now have a good basis for a successful meeting in Miami," said Mr. Amorim at a news conference after two days of meetings.
While Mr. Zoellick declined to comment, one of his senior trade officials did speak to the news media after the meetings. He said the sessions had been positive and useful.
Working out a temporary agreement with Brazil is a marked change in tactics for Mr. Zoellick. The American trade representative had blamed Brazil, along with other developing countries, for the breakdown of talks in Cancun, accusing them of being "won't do" nations that were good at making demands but poor at crafting compromises. 
Mr. Amorim met privately not only with Mr. Zoellick but also with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. 
Without cooperation from Brazil, South America's largest economy, it is doubtful that the Bush administration could achieve its goal of extending the North American Free Trade Agreement to the entire hemisphere, especially with the growing protests against the agreement in the United States.
Labor leaders, environmentalists and trade activists are planning to demonstrate by the tens of thousands at the Miami meeting against the current rules for free trade.
A major complaint of the critics is the absence of rules in the heart of these agreements to protect the right of workers to bargain collectively and to prohibit child labor and discrimination by employers.
The Bush administration asked many of the ministers visiting Washington over the weekend to call on lawmakers in Congress and express their support for free trade.
"All the ministers recognized that trade is a very sensitive issue here generally and in Congress," said the senior trade official. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); LIVING STANDARDS (52%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (89%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; ZOELLICK, ROBERT B; AMORIM, CELSO L N (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



239 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
He's Spoiling For a Chance To Take On Schumer

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
In New York Republican circles, Michael Benjamin has become a bit like the kid on the basketball court begging the other players to pass him the ball.
 Even as the party has all but given up any hope of finding a candidate who can beat New York's well-funded senior senator, Charles E. Schumer, next year, Mr. Benjamin has been trying to convince the party's leaders that he is the man for the job. 
 Mr. Benjamin, 33, has put more than 40,000 miles on his Ford Explorer in the last nine months, visiting every one of the state's 62 counties in an effort to round up support from local party leaders and rank-and-file Republicans. 
He has also managed to arrange meetings with some leading Republicans in the state, including Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and Alexander F. Treadwell, the state party chairman.
He even cornered Gov. George E. Pataki at a recent fund-raiser in Westchester County to press his case, though the governor's response was something on the order of "Don't call us, we'll call you," according to people familiar with the encounter. (An aide to the governor said that Mr. Pataki told Mr. Benjamin at the time that he might contact him later on.)
All this might have discouraged other candidates, but not Mr. Benjamin, a fast-talking former Wall Street trader whose fund-raising for Republicans has no doubt helped him get a foot in the door with party chieftains, none of whom chose to be quoted on the subject of Mr. Benjamin. 
"I'm not discouraged in the least," Mr. Benjamin said the other day in an interview. "I haven't gotten a green light from the powers that be, but I haven't gotten a red light, either."
Mr. Benjamin is facing something that Republican leaders in New York would really rather not discuss, at least publicly: the huge lead, financially and politically, that Mr. Schumer holds as he heads into a re-election year.
That has led Republican leaders in New York to avoid the extremely difficult issue of whom they should put up for a probable losing cause. Any Republican is very likely to be trounced by Mr. Schumer, a first-term senator who has considerable support even among Republicans in public polls.
New York Republicans have concluded that they are better off devoting money and other campaign resources to another political objective: helping President Bush mount a competitive 2004 re-election campaign in New York, a state that the Democratic presidential candidate usually wins with ease.
In fact, several top New York Republicans, including Mr. Pataki, are said to be worried that attempting a serious challenge to Mr. Schumer could stir up Democrats and hurt any chance that Mr. Bush might have in the state. The last Republican presidential candidate to win the state was Ronald Reagan.
Referring to Mr. Benjamin's campaign to oust Mr. Schumer, a senior adviser to one New York Republican leader said recently, "Nobody has the heart to tell him that it's a hopeless cause." 
"But who knows?" the adviser continued. "Maybe we'll end up giving him the nomination since nobody else wants it. He could be another Bob McMillan." Robert R. McMillan was the Nassau County lawyer who emerged from political obscurity in 1988 to challenge New York's previous senior senator, Daniel P. Moynihan. At the time, even Republicans conceded that Mr. McMillan was little more than a sacrificial lamb.
Fifteen years later, Mr. Benjamin acts genuinely thrilled by any suggestion that his candidacy is being taken seriously by people outside of his relatively small circle of supporters. He has, for example, filled his campaign Web site with newspaper articles chronicling the reaction he has received as he travels around the state to places like Norwich, where one reporter described him as the only "top politician" to attend the 28th annual Chenango County Lobsterfest.
Mr. Benjamin gets very upset when articles about next year's United States Senate race fail to mention him. "What do I have to do to get you to cover my campaign?" he once asked a reporter with more than a hint of frustration.
Politically, Mr. Benjamin has sprung up from virtually nowhere. The son of immigrants -- his father is Iranian, his mother Honduran -- he lived in Central and South America because of his father's job with the Bank of America, the biography on his Web site says. Fluent in Spanish, Mr. Benjamin points out that he would be the first United States Senator of Hispanic origin from New York if he defeats Mr. Schumer.
When the family was not abroad, Mr. Benjamin spent much of his childhood and youth living in Greenwich, Conn., where he went to elementary and high school. However, the biography posted on his Web site says, "Regardless of where the family moved, Michael always maintained his New York roots by spending the summer and winter months with his grandparents in Forest Hills, Queens." 
Mr. Benjamin says he wants to defeat Mr. Schumer because the senator "has been leading the state and the country in the wrong direction." Among other things, he singles out Mr. Schumer's opposition to the president's nominees for the federal bench and his vote opposing a bill the president recently signed outlawing what critics call partial-birth abortion. 
"I strongly believe that New York deserves better leadership in the United States Senate," he said.
Mr. Benjamin, who is single, worked on Wall Street after graduating from New York University with a bachelor's degree in economics. He paid his way through school by modeling in the fashion industry, though he said he prefers not to talk about it. Mr. Benjamin dismisses any suggestion that his campaign is quixotic, adding that in recent months he has enlisted 2,000 campaign volunteers, received financial contributions from 11,000 individuals and conducted interviews with scores of reporters.
"We're building a grass-roots organization here," said Mr. Benjamin, who left his job as a securities trader at a Wall Street firm almost a year ago to start his candidacy. "It's been an enormous amount of work." 
It is not completely out of the realm of possibility for Mr. Benjamin to get the party's nomination, especially since several prominent Republicans have already rebuffed invitations from the party to try to unseat Mr. Schumer, including Randy A. Daniels, the secretary of state in the Pataki administration, and Georgette Mosbacher, a prominent Republican fund-raiser and the former wife of Robert Mosbacher, the secretary of commerce under George H. W. Bush.
Mr. Benjamin also has proven his party loyalty, helping raise, he says, more than $150,000 for Republicans in New York and nationally. He recently suggested that he might have the party's best chance of toppling Mr. Schumer (though it is worth noting here that with $200,000 in his campaign war chest, he is about $17.8 million behind Mr. Schumer in fund-raising).
"My supporters and I seem to be the only ones who don't want to give Schumer a free ride," he said. "We're really building something here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Benjamin 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



240 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Reform for Farmers 

 BODY:
A great rift is opening in America's once-impregnable farm lobby. It is a gap between those forms of agriculture that can prosper on their own and the ones that must be perpetually propped up by huge subsidies. This is a critical development if this country is ever going to control the costs of its farm programs and deal fairly with poor countries that want their chance to prosper from global trade. The United States has to acknowledge that it can no longer continue to support hopelessly unprofitable agricultural enterprises, even if they are in states represented by powerful members of Congress.
 This new schism shows up in the debate over proposals to cap the amounts individual farmers can receive in government aid. Right now, some of the nation's wealthiest welfare recipients are farmers "earning" taxpayer subsidies in the high six figures, or more. Senator Charles Grassley, the chairman of the Finance Committee and an Iowa farmer, has long been eager to impose new limits. Unfortunately, he was unable to get the Senate to debate an amendment to the Department of Agriculture's annual funding legislation last week that would set a new cap on the overall amount farmers can obtain in federal subsidies. Many Southern senators were eager to avoid the issue. 
 Of course the senator is right in wanting to place tighter limits on farmers' checks, and it's important that a representative of a farm state is leading this charge. The wheat, corn and soybean farmers in Mr. Grassley's area get subsidies, but they tend to be smaller than those for capital-intensive crops like rice and cotton farming in the South (and California). Midwestern farmers also are more enthusiastic about genuine global fair trade. Southern farmers fear, rightly, that it would mean the end of the huge subsidies that allow them to export their product at prices below the cost of growing it. One West Texas cotton farmer jokingly accuses Mr. Grassley of triggering a new civil war.
The farm subsidies are fraudulently sold to the public as a way of propping up the small family farm, when in reality they only accelerate the concentration of farming in this country. Taxpayer handouts amount to almost half of the total net income for American farmers, but two-thirds get no subsidy. Among those who do, the top 10 percent receive 65 percent of all payments, according to an analysis by the Environmental Working Group. 
It's astonishing that a program can continue to get Congressional support when it hurts virtually everybody our representatives are supposed to be concerned about -- small farmers, other taxpayers and poorer nations struggling to join the global economy. According to a government report issued in September, the lack of realistic caps on individual subsidies only encourages more overproduction by large farms. Meanwhile, industrial-scale farms awash in subsidies have the incentive to accumulate more land, further inflating prices beyond the reach of modest farmers, many of whom are renters. Smaller farmers are also afflicted by depressed crop prices. 
The 2002 farm bill set a $360,000 cap on an individual's subsidies, but that's widely abused as farmers create legal entities with interests in the same land, each entitled to a payment. Still, in opposing Senator Grassley's efforts to rein in the abuses and to limit payments, earlier this year the National Cotton Council shamelessly stated that such a move would drive farmers to "make cropping decisions based on program benefits rather than market signals."
Get it? The cotton lobby would like you to think that smaller payments distort market realities more than unlimited subsidies. This is the kind of nonsensical claim underlying the nation's absurd farm policies. Stringent payment limits would be a step toward some semblance of sanity. Senator Grassley should persevere.

Harvesting Poverty: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/harvestingpoverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CORN FARMING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (62%) AGRICULTURE; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION 

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (88%) GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



241 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Living on Borrowed Money 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's interesting that so much attention is being paid to the modest job creation numbers for October, and so little is being given to a much more significant issue that Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards is homing in on.
 Over the past couple of decades, Mr. Edwards said last week, "the American dream of building something better" has been replaced by the reality of "just getting by." 
 It has become increasingly difficult to get into -- or stay in -- the middle class. In speeches, reports and interviews, Senator Edwards has been pointing out that despite income gains, most families have been unable to save money and are dangerously vulnerable to setbacks like job losses and illnesses. 
Citing statistics from an influential recent book, "The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Mothers and Fathers are Going Broke," by Elizabeth Warren and Amelia Warren Tyagi, he noted that over the past 30 years home mortgage costs have risen 70 times faster than the average father's income. So you end up with two parents working like crazy just to keep the family economically afloat.
A generation ago the average American family was able to save about 11 percent of its income. Today the average family saves nothing. How can a family possibly save when it's piling up debt like mad?
The consumer debt load for the average family has tripled in just one generation. More and more Americans are using credit cards and other forms of borrowing to bridge the difficult gap between household income and the cost of essential goods and services. And those families, already in trouble, are ruthlessly exploited by a wide range of lenders.
As Senator Edwards pointed out in a report issued by his campaign: "Credit card companies target people least able to pay and then raise interest rates when people miss a single payment after losing their job. Almost half of all Americans pay the minimum balance or less each month, running up large interest debts."
Struggling families that fall behind in their payments are like a gold mine to the credit card companies.
"Late fees," according to a study by the public policy group Demos, "have become the fastest growing source of revenue for the industry, jumping from $1.7 billion in 1996 to $7.3 billion in 2002. Late fees now average $29, and most cards have reduced the late payment grace period from 14 days to zero days. In addition to charging late fees, the major credit card companies use the first late payment as an excuse to cancel low, introductory rates -- often making a zero percent card jump to between 22 and 29 percent."
With so many families living on the edge of a financial cliff, it's inevitable that a lot of them will fall off. Personal bankruptcies reached an all-time high of 1.6 million last year.
If I were a cartoonist, I'd draw a picture of a family running for their lives down the center of a highway with an enormous truck labeled "financial insolvency" speeding behind them.
The American Dream has morphed into a treacherous survival regimen in which the good life -- a life that includes a home, family vacations, adequate health coverage, money to provide the kids with a solid education, and a comfortable retirement -- is increasingly elusive.
Senator Edwards said he is frequently confronted on the campaign trail by middle-class voters who will say, for example: "I've got a mother who needs to go into a nursing home and I can't pay for it. And I think I'm going to have to go into bankruptcy to do it, in order to qualify for Medicaid."
Or, "I was doing fine until my husband got sick and now he needs medication that costs $300 a week. How in the world do I pay for that?"
Borrowing, whether by the federal government or individual consumers, has become the preferred (perhaps only) way to make ends meet. What's been driving this so-called red-hot economy is not the solid growth in jobs and wages that is essential for a flourishing middle class, but an orgy of refinancing and an irresponsible mixture of tax cuts and federal spending that is creating monster deficits. In short, we're mortgaging the nation's future.
On Friday the Federal Reserve reported that consumers had jacked up their borrowing in September by the largest amount since the beginning of the year. The $15.1 billion increase in consumer borrowing was 9.7 percent higher than in August, and pushed total consumer debt to $1.97 trillion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (91%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%) HERBERT, BOB; EDWARDS, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



242 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON MONDAY/Collecting; 
Back in 1964, First Pony Out of the Gate

BYLINE:  By JOHN MATRAS

 BODY:
THE frenzy among car buyers set off by the April 1964 introduction of the Ford Mustang nearly equaled the reaction of music fans to the Beatles' first appearance on television's "Ed Sullivan Show," just two months earlier. 
 By the end of the 1965 model year, 17 months later, more than 680,000 Mustangs had been sold, a record for Ford. In fact, the arrival of Ford's sporty coupe and convertible (and the competitors it inspired) created a new market category and inspired its name: the "pony" car. 
 Next spring, forty years after the introduction of the original Mustang, Ford will introduce the fourth generation of the car. The 2005 model will draw heavily on its predecessors, reviving many styling cues from the first generation, if details of the Mustang concept car that Ford has shown reach the production version. 
The instant success of the Mustang is credited in part to it being "the right car at the right time," according to Jim Campisano, the editor of Muscle Mustangs & Fast Fords, a magazine for Mustang enthusiasts. "It crossed all boundaries, and it appealed to baby boomers, retirees, guys with a midlife crisis. It made you feel terrific when you drove it." 
Mr. Campisano adds that the Mustang was also one of the first cars that appealed to women as much as to men. With a growing number of families owning two vehicles, many women began to look for a car that handled well, parked easily and made them look good while driving it. It didn't matter that the Mustang was built on the platform of the Ford Falcon, an economy car. 
Another appeal of the Mustang was its $2,368 sticker price, not much higher than the cost of a Volkswagen Beetle. At first, the only Mustang body styles offered were a notchback coupe and a convertible. The option of 271-horsepower, 289-cubic-inch engine, and the addition of a fastback 2+2 body in September 1964 attracted young men interested in sporty performance. This formula of offering something for everyone has served the Mustang well ever since.
The Mustang grew larger and heavier up through 1973, in part to accommodate the bigger engines needed to keep up with its competitors in the horsepower race. In 1969, Mustangs powered by the 428 Cobra Jet engine were awesome performers on the street, and the limited-production Boss 429 (less than a thousand examples were built in each of its two years of production) was as fast as it was rare. The Boss 302 was inspired by the Sports Car Club of America's Trans-Am racing series, and with a high output V-8 and sport-tuned suspension it was one of the fastest and most agile pony cars of the era. 
The first generation of Mustangs found its final form in the 1971 model, with a large, almost-horizontal rear window on fastback bodies. The power ran out in 1973 as engine compression ratios were reduced for compatibility with the low-lead or no-lead gasoline necessitated by new emissions laws.
 The Mustang II, which arrived in 1974 as a reaction to the growing popularity of small imported coupes, was no longer a true pony car, but a sporty body on a Pinto platform. At first, the engine choices were limited to a tepid 2.3-liter four cylinder from the Pinto or a German-built 2.8-liter V-6. An anemic V-8 was added in 1975. With its bold snake imagery, the 1978 King Cobra model is the most desirable version for those few collectors with lust for Mustang II's. 
Based on a chassis borrowed from the Fairmont sedan, the third-generation Mustang made its debut in 1979 featuring new, wedge-nosed styling. Engines ranged from the 2.3-liter four cylinder to a 302 cubic-inch V-8. The next two years, however, were a performance low, with a smaller V-8 and a turbo 4 lacking both power and reliability. 
The two turbo 4's of 1983 were much better, especially the one in the rare Mustang SVO, which was intended to be a player in the BMW market. Called the "right car at the wrong time" by Mr. Campisano, the high-strung SVO lacked the V-8 punch of the less expensive GT. 
Mr. Campisano calls the '87 LX 5.0-liter the "all-time bang-for-the-buck champion" and one of the most desirable models from the 1980's. From the next decade, the '93 Cobra "R" is highly collectible, recently selling for more than $40,000. Yet from 1980 to the present, the base Mustang has had a six-cylinder engine as standard equipment. Cars like this are considered fun, peppy runabouts, but have yet to acquire the collector-car status.
Tame to torrid, the Mustang has always appealed to a wide range of tastes. That's not likely to change when the next-generation Mustang arrives for 2005.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The original Ford Mustang, an icon of pop culture, was commemorated on a postage stamp in 1999.; HOT PURSUIT: The Highway Patrol's hero.; SLEEKER: 1996 Mustang GT coupe.; REPLAY: Retro touches for an '05 concept.; DOWNSIZED: In '74, a smaller Mustang II. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); SPORTS CARS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (66%); FAMILY (64%) Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: John Matras

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003 



243 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Aircraft Security 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Security Is Looser on Corporate Aircraft" (Business Travel, Oct. 28): Business aviation has a long-established record of security, safety and professionalism. 
It is also a critical factor in our integrated national transportation system, driving productivity gains and economic growth. 
 Regulators and policy makers understand business aviation's impeccable safety and security record and are engaged with us to develop substantial security standards second to none. This industry's commitment to security led to the development of the Transportation Security Administration Access Certificate, recognized as a comprehensive security program. All responsible aviators understand the greater need for security post-9/11. None of our members shirk this duty. 

SHELLEY A. LONGMUIR
President, National Business
Aviation Association
Washington, Oct. 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%) National Business Aviation Assn

PERSON: Shelley A Longmuir

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



244 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 894 words

PERSON: Harold Hongju Koh 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Battling the Darkness, With the Law as His Lamp

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
THE world, as viewed by the newly appointed dean of Yale Law School, Harold Hongju Koh, is divided between darkness and light.
 And it is not just an idle metaphor. 
It was the view from his airplane window when, as a member of the Clinton administration, he joined Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright on a trip to meet the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il.
"The moment I remember most was when we flew out of North Korean airspace and into Seoul, we left a land of darkness and suddenly there were all these lights," he recalled. "I mean it was just brilliantly lit, and as we got closer there was all this teeming activity and I said to myself, 'This is what democracy means. It is the exact same people, the exact same culture, only 20, 30 miles apart, and the only difference between a world of darkness and a world of light is the form of government that they have chosen.' " 
For Mr. Koh, 48, an emigrant from Korea, any government that hopes to throw light instead of darkness must be based on the rule of law. It is an outlook that makes him both optimistic about America as a force for good in the world and upset about the current direction of American foreign policy.
Recently, in a speech in London that was excerpted in The Economist magazine, Mr. Koh spoke about how, in his view, the Bush administration is willing to flout America's own established rules of law when it feels threatened. 
He described the government's response to the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington as revealing "Achilles and his heel." 
"Sept. 11 brought upon America, like Achilles, a schizophrenic sense of both its exceptional power and its exceptional vulnerability," he told the audience. "Never has a superpower seemed so powerful and vulnerable at the same time." 
In an interview in his office here, where the conversation hopped around the globe from the war crimes tribunal in Sierra Leone to Iraq to North Korea, always circling back to the importance of law, Mr. Koh was both highly critical of the administration and, still, assuredly hopeful. 
"The period from the fall of the Berlin wall in '89 to the fall of the twin towers in 2001 was the age of global optimism," he said. "On Sept. 11 we literally went out of the light and into the darkness in the age of globalization."
But while Sept. 11 may have introduced many Americans to the darker forces of the world, Mr. Koh believes that "the pessimism should not have led us to abandon interdependence as the way. It's global interdependence that is going to get us out of this mess." 
As a professor of international law, it is this value that he tries to instill in his students. 
"We are training the legal architects of the 21st century," he said. When talking about his students, Mr. Koh smiles widely. He says the hour he spends in the classroom is his happiest of the day. "Law schools are at the same juncture as they were in the 19th century when the major law schools started to shift from talking about state law to national law," he said, explaining that the focus is now shifting to international law.
When he becomes dean of the law school in July, he said, one of his most exciting challenges will be to help make Yale the pre-eminent institution for global law. "There is an emerging global constitution that has to be supported and strengthened and made more inclusive," he said. "And that is what the architects of 21st-century law will have to do." 
Mr. Koh is married to Mary-Christy Fisher, a lawyer with the New Haven Legal Assistance Association, and they have two children, Emily, 17, and Will, 13. Mr. Koh's father, Kwang Lim Koh, served as minister to the United States for the first democratically elected government in South Korea, until a military coup in 1961. Walt W. Rostow, then a deputy national security advisor, helped Mr. Koh's parents get settled in the United States by calling his brother, Eugene V. Rostow, then dean of the law school, for help. For three years, Mr. Koh's father and his mother, Hesung Chun Koh, taught a course on East Asian law and society at Yale. "It was my first experience with American goodness," said Mr. Koh, who was 6 at the time. 
WHEN Mr. Koh took a break from teaching to serve as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor from 1998 until 2001, he said he was struck by how little impact the scholarly community had in policy decisions. 
"I think policy makers should listen more to scholars and scholars should talk more about matters relating to the problems of the real world." Unfortunately, he said, "Those with ideas have no influence and those with influence have no ideas." 
For Mr. Koh -- who got his law degree from Harvard, was a clerk for Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun and started teaching at Yale in 1985 -- his ideas center on the importance of the law in dealing with the most pressing problems in the world. "I am very interested in the constructive power of law," he said.
"Everyone looks to the United States, for good or ill, and the question is, how does the United States respond? I think there are competing impulses: There is an impulse to respond with power, or to rely on our power alone. And there is an impulse to respond with our strength -- our moral leadership -- which derives from our values that are embedded in the rule of law."
Mr. Koh, no surprise, chooses the rule of law. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: HAROLD HONGJU KOH (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); TERRORISM (64%); WAR CRIMES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

KIM JONG IL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%)

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



245 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: After the Crossing, Danger to Migrants Isn't Over 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 10 

 BODY:
A new Spanish word has entered the American lexicon: bajadero.
 Human smugglers along the Mexican border are known as polleros -- chicken ranchers. People they smuggle into the United States are called pollos, a reference to the barnyard treatment they receive at the hands of their herders. 
 Since the black market abhors a vacuum, it was perhaps inevitable that the border would see the rise of the bajadero -- loosely translated, a chicken-stealing member of the underworld, who makes money kidnapping illegal immigrants from their smugglers, holding them for ransom and in the worst case killing them if not paid promptly.
Law-enforcement officials along the border say the bajaderos are behind a wave of violence and death in southern Arizona that is reminiscent of the drug wars of years past. Just last week, four people were killed in a high-speed highway shootout south of Phoenix between smugglers and a rival gang from whom they had kidnapped a group of Mexicans. 
Border authorities attribute the surge of violence to the law of supply and demand. With increased border patrols since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, the price charged to take Mexican immigrants over the border to Phoenix has tripled, to more than $1,500, officials say. The price charged to Central and South Americans has climbed to as much as $4,000 and for Eastern Europeans the bill can top $10,000. 
Prices like these make the smuggling of people almost as profitable as smuggling drugs, officials say, and the penalty for getting caught is a matter of months in prison rather than years. And gangs are figuring out that they do not need to smuggle to make money. It is easier to steal people once someone has done the hard work of getting them here.
"Human smuggling organizations are targeting one another with innocent civilians caught in the crossfire and paying a very high price," said Michael J. Garcia, assistant secretary of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. "With the rise of this organized criminal enterprise here in Phoenix we've seen an incredible rise in violence."
The smuggling arrangement is supposed to work on a cash-on-delivery basis. For example, the hopeful migrant arrives by bus at a Mexican border town like Agua Prieta near the southeastern corner of this state and is hidden until the appointed hour. He is then driven out into the desert, where he embarks with others who follow a pollero across the mountains and needled bush. 
The trip is an arduous three-day journey, usually by night, with the migrant carrying little more than a plastic bag to keep the dew off, a plastic jug of water and perhaps a tin of sardines. The migrant risks death by rattlesnake, scorpion, dehydration, exposure, abandonment and broken bones. 
Once in the United States, the migrant walks to an appointed spot, usually some barren patch at the edge of a town where a van or truck takes him to a city like Phoenix. Once in town, the immigrant is locked in a house where he is held until a friend comes to buy his freedom.
The system breaks down when the immigrants are stolen at the appointed place of pickup. 
In Phoenix alone, law enforcement officials blame warfare between rival smuggling cartels for the 45 percent rise in killings over the past year. Violent crimes like kidnapping, home invasions and extortion are up more than 400 percent, and authorities attribute most of that crime to rival bajaderos and polleros as well.
"Killers, rapists, kidnappers," are the words Paul Charlton, the United States attorney here, uses to describe the smuggling cartels. "The standards that only applied to narco-trafficking now apply to human trafficking. We now know we have to focus on these individuals because it's not just a border problem anymore."
To that effect, the authorities announced on Monday that a multiagency task force in Arizona would work to combat the smuggling problem on the ground, in the courts and through bank accounts. The immigration service will station 50 more agents in Arizona along with financial crimes experts in order to dismantle the cartels. The federal authorities will work closely with regional police and prosecutors, Mr. Garcia said. Military hardware like helicopters will also be dispatched to patrol the border. 
After crackdowns in California and Texas, the 261 miles of devilish desert border along Arizona has become the nation's busiest area for illegal crossing over the past five years, officials said, describing it as the bottleneck of human smuggling in the Western Hemisphere.
The early morning kidnapping of a group of migrants last Tuesday and the subsequent shootout that left four dead and a man clutching his severed toe on the side of Interstate 10, showed that the ability to smuggle people across the border is an increasingly lucrative proposition.
"I believe it's drug smugglers dabbling in another business, seeing if they can expand their markets," said State Senator Peter Rios. "They've been in crime so long they think they can get away with it. It's arrogance."
The highway shootout was not an isolated incident. For instance, in Phoenix last month, a smuggling organization threatened to sever the hand of a 9-year-old girl if they did not receive a ransom. In Red Rock last October, a group of a dozen immigrants were fired upon by two men wearing camouflage. The police later found two corpses riddled with bullets, one witness, and no sign of the other immigrants, who authorities believe were loaded into vehicles and spirited away.
In Maricopa County last year, eight men were found dead in the desert west of Phoenix gagged and bound. Seven had been shot in the head; the eighth was stabbed. 
Last month, three men were kidnapped and held for $15,000 ransom. They were found alive by authorities, bound from head to toe in duct tape.
"These alien smugglers are the lowest form of life," said Victor M. Manjarrez Jr., the agent in charge of the Douglas sector of the Border Patrol. "They are rapists and glue sniffers and they have no regard for human life. They sell someone a dream and quite often they steal it."
On Tuesday, a group of immigrants who had made the trek from Mexico were waiting in a field south of Phoenix for a van to take them to a safe house. Mike Minter, a spokesman for the Pinal County sheriff's office, said the immigrants had apparently got into the vehicle of a rival group of smugglers; it is not clear whether they did so unwittingly or by the barrel of a gun. Mr. Minter said the original group of smugglers then began chasing their rivals along I-10 and shooting at the vehicle with semiautomatic weapons. 
Officials say they believe the four victims were smugglers. Twenty-four other people were arrested, including the four who opened fire.
Despite the growing violence, Mexicans say they will keep coming for a better life even if it means losing their lives on the chance.
Take Jose G. Pina and his entourage, who were standing in Agua Prieta having just been deported by the Americans and waiting for their wives to be released. These peasant farmers fled Guanajuato, a state in central Mexico, when it became apparent that the spring floods had destroyed their land.
Early Wednesday morning, in the bright light of the moon, these seven men and five women struck out on their own across the mountains. An hour into the walk, two bandits with pistols stepped out from the bush and robbed them of everything: $3,000. 
"At least they didn't touch the women," said Mr. Pina, an erect and regal man in an oily cap.
Word of the highway gun battle reached him while he spent the evening in a detention cell, where he said, he was treated well and with respect by the American authorities. 
The trip used to be so easy, Mr. Pina said. He has made it at least 30 times. "It's so much more difficult now," he said. "There are 100 percent more bandits and criminals out there. It's a new profession. They rape women and take children."
He took a drag on an American cigarette as he considered the totality of his existence, and waited for his wife so that they could try the journey again. 
"It's a sad thing," he said. "It's hard enough, this life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: There has been a surge of violence at Arizona's border with Mexico. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Three men in custody last Tuesday south of Phoenix after the kidnapping of a group of migrants and a subsequent shootout that left four dead. The sheriff's office said it was a battle between rival smugglers. (Photo by Russell Gates/The Arizona Republic, via Associated Press); Water bottles in the desert where illegal immigrants enter Arizona. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CHICKEN FARMING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); DRUG POLICY (74%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (60%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ORGANIZED CRIME; ILLEGAL ALIENS; KIDNAPPING; RANSOM 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) MEXICO; ARIZONA

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



246 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: British Air Reports 36% Drop In Profits 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 10 

 BODY:
British Airways, the largest airline in Europe, said Monday that profit declined 36 percent in its second quarter, a result of slimmed-down corporate travel budgets and a wildcat strike. 
 The company earned $:98 million ($164 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30. Revenue was down 6 percent, to $:1.98 billion ($3.31 billion). The number of seats filled declined slightly, to 76.5 percent. 
 Nearly half of all British Airways flights in October were to the Americas. But the strong growth in the United States economy that was reported recently has not yet had an effect on the company's business. 
"The recent positive news from the United States is a welcome development, but is not yet showing in forward bookings," said the chairman of British Airways, Lord Marshall. 
Airline profits can lag other economic indicators, particularly when they are highly dependent on business travel, as British Airways' results are. Companies usually do not relax travel spending immediately.
Lord Marshall also said on Monday that he would retire after the company's annual meeting in July 2004. He joined British Airways as chief executive in 1983. He will be succeeded by Martin F. Broughton, who is stepping down as chairman of British American Tobacco. 
Airlines worldwide have been hurt this year by fear of terrorism, the war in Iraq and the outbreak of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome. Worldwide, airline revenues from tourist travel will fall $4.9 billion this year, according to a study released on Monday. 
But overall tourist traffic will grow 7 percent in 2004, said IPK International, the research firm that conducted the study. Air travel for tourism has rebounded quickly after declining sharply before the beginning of the Iraq war, IPK said. 
British Airways is not in a position to benefit as much as some other airlines from that improvement, though. The company has heavy competition in the tourist travel business from discount carriers like Ryanair, which offer cheap flights from London to European cities. British Airways' results were also hurt by sudden strikes at Heathrow Airport in July. Several hundred ticket agents walked off the job to protest a new identity card system, grounding more than 500 flights. 
Some of the losses were made up by cutting costs.
British Airways said earlier this year that it planned to cut 13,000 jobs by March 2004, in response to the slowdown in travel. To date, the company has cut 12,087 jobs, saving $:701 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); STRIKES (89%); IRAQ WAR (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); SARS (65%); TERRORISM (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC 

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (55%); BTI (JSE) (55%); BATS (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (55%)

PERSON: MARSHALL (LORD); TIMMONS, HEATHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



247 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: New York Pays Highest Taxes, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 10 

 BODY:
New Yorkers pay more of their income in local taxes than residents of any other state, according to a study by a budget watchdog group.
 The study, released Monday by the Citizens Budget Commission, uses economic data from before the current budget problems and the tax increases in New York and many other states last year, but officials said they believe the results held true nonetheless. 
 "There's certainly been tax increases across the country, but there is certainly no reason to think that our tax increases have been less than others'," Marcia J. Van Wagner, the chief economist for the commission, said on Monday. "You wouldn't think it has gotten any better."
The study confirms what many taxpayer groups and others had long asserted: New York's local income, property and sales taxes are higher than those in any other state.
The study, based on federal economic data from the 2000 fiscal year, found that those combined taxes were 72 percent more than the national average.
The next highest state, New Jersey, showed a local tax bill that was about 20 percent higher than the national average.
The revenue from the taxes is used primarily to pay for education, Medicaid and government employees' pensions and benefits, all of which have been rising steadily for years.
The Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group backed primarily by businesses that seeks ways to contain government costs and taxes in New York, looked at overall fiscal practices in New York and in other states. The study also found that New York's debt burden of $38 billion as of the 2000 fiscal year was the highest in the country. 
Included in the report were studies of the state's large and recurring budget gaps, the lateness and opaqueness of the budget process and the delays' effect on state agencies' and local governments' efforts to plan and manage finances. 
Diana M. Fortuna, president of the commission, said Monday that the group measured the average cost of local sales, income, property and other taxes per $1,000 of annual personal income. The study found that New York State residents paid an average of $73.36 per $1,000 of income in municipal taxes, and that the national average was $42.61. 
New York residents' tax payments to state government were slightly below the national average, but their combined state and local tax bill was $141 per $1,000 of income, or 26 percent above the national average, the highest in the country.
Among the 11 largest, urbanized states, 6 have local tax burdens below the national average: Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, California and Michigan. 
In New Jersey, the second-highest in the ranking, local taxes are $51 per $1,000 of income. The third-highest burden is felt in Ohio.
Responding to the study, aides to Gov. George E. Pataki said Monday that the governor has tried each year to help local governments by proposing pension reforms, relief on state-required spending, and Medicaid savings.
"No one has done more than Governor Pataki to help reduce the burden of local taxes," said Joseph E. Conway, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki.
Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, said Monday the study was valuable for the way it detailed how elected officials in Albany dictate taxes in New York's cities, towns and counties.
"What this underscores is that the problem we have is a four-letter word: cost," Mr. McMahon said of the study. "The costs are driven primarily out of Albany, by the State Legislature and the governor. But though the costs are dictated by Albany, Albany does not have to foot the whole bill; that's the main problem. All they do in Albany is cash the campaign contributions from all the interest groups that benefit from their spending, primarily the unions."
Ms. Fortuna said the burden on local governments in New York was exacerbated by the way Medicaid costs are formulated. The state requires localities, including New York City, to pay 25 percent of the cost of acute-care services and 10 percent of the cost of long-term care services for people in their area who receive Medicaid benefits; most other states do not. New York spends 94 percent more per Medicaid beneficiary than any other state in the nation, Ms. Fortuna said. 
"All kinds of counties have problems with Medicaid," Ms. Fortuna said. "The poorer counties most of all, but New York's Medicaid benefits extend into the middle class. But clearly it is mostly a problem of lower-income counties, whether they are urban or rural."
The study found that in New York City, most of the local tax burden was attributable to local income taxes. Elsewhere in the state, the high burden was attributable to property taxes. New York City and the rest of the state have a sales tax burden that is more than double the national average, the study found.
Asked about the findings at a news conference in Queens, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg complained Monday about the city's high costs for Medicaid ($4 billion and rising) and complained that pension benefits, once granted by the State Legislature, are virtually impossible to take away.
"I've joined with other county legislators and county leaders to try to convince the State Legislature to reduce our obligation to pay that $4 billion either by them taking it over, or them reviewing the benefits and finding which ones we can do without, which wouldn't hurt anybody," Mr. Bloomberg said. "That's going to be a contentious thing."
Medicaid is also a big issue in Erie County, which includes Buffalo and has 900,000 residents. The projected cost of Medicaid there this year is about $175 million, while the overall property tax levy is projected to bring $128 million in revenue.
"Every penny we take in in county property taxes is used to pay for Medicaid," said Jeffrey W. Hammond, a spokesman for Joel A. Giambra, the county executive and a Republican. "That is before we pay for any libraries, or plow any roads or pay for any police services."
Analysts said part of the reason for the high cost might be that New Yorkers expect more from their local governments than do residents elsewhere.
"The Northeast has generally exhibited a higher historical preference for more government services than other parts of the nation," said Judy Zelio, an analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures, adding that states like New York are able to pay more.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Taxing New Yorkers"New York State has the highest local tax burden in the nation, according to a report based on tax data for the 2000 fiscal year. TAX DOLLARS PER $1,000 OF PERSONAL INCOME New York: $73New Jersey: $51Ohio: $48Illinois: $47Texas: $46Georgia: $45U.S. average: $43Pennsylvania: $41Connecticut: $41Florida: $40Massachusetts: $37California: $36Michigan: $32 (Source by Citizens Budget Commission)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RANKINGS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



248 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
NBC Faults Nielsen for Reduction in Viewers

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
After some dogged investigating, NBC yesterday offered up its answer to television's big mystery of the fall, the case of the disappearing young, male viewer. And in this television version of Clue, the solution by NBC was a young Hispanic man, in the living room, with the remote. Or perhaps more accurately, without the remote. 
 NBC has determined that a disproportionate amount of the falloff in viewing levels among young men, a decline of 11 percent so far this season, can be tied to the decision of Nielsen Media Research to add a significant number of Hispanic viewers to its national survey. 
 Because many of these young Hispanic men may not be participating in the button-pushing process that determines TV ratings, the decline in viewing levels may be exaggerated. NBC executives argue that, as a result of the changed statistical sample, comparisons to last season's ratings are skewed. 
NBC's possible solution is of potential great importance to a television industry that takes in billions in advertising revenue annually based on ratings information -- and which can owe advertisers tens of millions of dollars in free commercials when ratings fall short of expectations, as they have this fall. 
Nielsen immediately disputed how NBC was interpreting its ratings numbers. The dispute reflected the almost surreal position television industry executives find themselves in when dealing with Nielsen, which has a monopoly over television ratings information. 
"You get to feel like you're in the Bizarro world of Superman," said Alan Wurtzel, the president for research at NBC. "Nielsen not only sets all the rules, they own the bats and balls."
The Hispanic solution certainly contains some intriguing elements. Hispanics happen to be a group that Nielsen has been aggressively adding to its viewing sample since late last spring -- or precisely when the statistically anomalous drop-offs in viewing among young men began occurring.
That sort of "aha" coincidence drew the attention of Mr. Wurtzel, the chief detective for NBC in the mystery that has befuddled the television industry this fall. 
Mr. Wurtzel has argued from the beginning, in the face of protestations of scrupulous accuracy from Nielsen, that it was highly unlikely that young men suddenly started watching television in far fewer numbers at some point in late June. 
Similarly he has dismissed the notion that use of videogames or DVD's or the sudden departure of young men to Iraq -- all potential explanations that Nielsen has offered up -- has had anything to do with the viewing falloff. 
Now having pored over the data -- supplied to him by Nielsen -- Mr. Wurtzel is suggesting that as Nielsen has added Hispanic young men in what he called a worthwhile effort to more accurately represent the Hispanic percentage of the national population, it has skewed the viewing levels for young men this fall.
Mr. Wurtzel suggested that as Hispanic households have signed up to take part in the Nielsen survey, the ratings service might have counted on a participation level by young men in those households that simply had not taken place. 
He presented a raft of information showing that younger men have been tossed out of the Nielsen sample at a much higher rate this fall, mainly because they were not following the procedures put in place to record viewing habits. 
(Nielsen families receive a special remote control with personalized buttons for each participant; when someone watches a program, he or she must frequently log in.) 
Mr. Wurtzel suggested this condition might be especially prevalent in some of the Hispanic households added by Nielsen since last spring.
Mr. Wurtzel also pointed to Nielsen data that showed Hispanic men were spending significantly fewer minutes in front of the television. While Hispanic men from ages 18 to 34 watched television an average of 60 minutes a day during the first two weeks of the television season last year, they watched only 47 minutes a day this year. The overall average of viewing minutes for men in that age group fell to 54 minutes from 56 minutes last year.
A disproportion of that size would surely skew the overall numbers, Mr. Wurtzel said, especially at a time when Nielsen is greatly expanding its Hispanic representation.
Mr. Wurtzel said, "I am not claiming this is a smoking gun that explains everything." 
But he did express frustration that his network was able to discern this change in the sample structure while Nielsen is supposed to be examining the data looking for a possible explanation. 
"I really would have expected Nielsen to be aggressive about searching out explanations themselves and not relying on us to do it for them," Mr. Wurtzel said.
He also questioned the efforts by some colleagues in research at advertising firms, notably Steve Sternberg of Magna Global, to write off the declines as the result of lousy network programming. To Mr. Sternberg's claim of "it's the programming stupid," Mr. Wurtzel replied: "It's the sample, stupid."
Mr. Sternberg said yesterday that NBC's explanation still sounded like excuse-making to him, for programming no new shows to appeal to young men. 
Nielsen, not unexpectedly, also differs with NBC. Paul Donato, the chief of research for the company, said Mr. Wurtzel should not have used figures from the first two weeks of the season because "they are not typical of Hispanic viewing levels."
In general he said viewing levels for Hispanic young men have dropped since July but only by a small amount, about 3 percent. 
"I do not want to dismiss this as not having any impact," Mr. Donato said of NBC's Hispanic theory of the case. "But it's absolutely wrong to suggest this is driving the falloff. It is one of five or six different things we are providing our clients as an explanation.
Mr. Donato said Nielsen stood by its sample and would be supplying its clients with a thorough analysis in the next two weeks.
"They're going to report in two weeks? That's not enough," an increasingly angry Mr. Wurtzel replied. 
"This has gone on for three months already."
He was especially aggrieved by Nielsen's claim that he should not have merely looked at data from the first two weeks of the season. "That's the only data they gave me," he said. "If they had better data why didn't they give me that?" 
Mr. Wurtzel added, "I'm not looking for a fight. I'd just like to see this resolved." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (95%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MEN (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (67%) TELEVISION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MEN 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (78%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



249 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Says PeopleSoft Plan For Rebates May Imperil Bid 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
In its hostile takeover bid for PeopleSoft, Oracle asked a Delaware court yesterday to expedite its request for an injunction against a PeopleSoft rebate program that takes effect upon an acquisition. Oracle said the rebate program could force it to withdraw its offer. 
 The Justice Department is reviewing Oracle's $7.3 billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft, announced last spring. The review is expected to last until the end of the month. 
 Oracle asked for the injunction this summer in the Delaware Court of Chancery. A group of PeopleSoft shareholders filed suit in the same court on Thursday, seeking to force PeopleSoft to stop offering a refund to customers who buy its software. 
Both motions assert that PeopleSoft's customer assurance program effectively prevented the PeopleSoft board from accepting Oracle's takeover offer. The program, announced last spring soon after Oracle announced its hostile takeover bid, offers customers rebates of as much as five times the purchase price of the software under certain conditions.
PeopleSoft disclosed last month that it had revised the terms of the rebate program to allow customers to receive refunds if PeopleSoft was acquired within the next two years, rather than only one year, and if the buyer reduced support for PeopleSoft products within four years, rather than two.
In its motion, Oracle said, "Indeed, if the PeopleSoft board is permitted to continue to issue self-serving, entrenchment-motivated contracts under the revised money-back offer, Oracle may be forced to abandon its bid, as it will no longer be economically reasonable."
PeopleSoft executives said last month that the program could amount to as much as $800 million in rebate fees, far more than the company originally estimated. A spokesman for PeopleSoft, Steve Swasey, said, "The customer assurance program serves customers; in that way it's good for shareholders." 
Before the revision of the program, Oracle executives had publicly said the customer assurance program was a moot point because the company expected to meet its conditions after the acquisition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES REBATES (94%); TAKEOVERS (92%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REBATES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLESOFT INC; ORACLE CORP 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



250 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Technology Shares Lead a Retreat as Investors Cash In

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, with technology shares leading the retreat as investors cashed in on recent gains after the market's brush with 2003 highs last week. 
 Hewlett-Packard dragged down the Dow Jones industrial average after a broker forecast a dip in sales of some products in the new year, and Intel retreated despite being upgraded by J.P. Morgan. 
 Given the market's heady climb so far this year, some investors are betting that the economy's recent show of strength is already largely factored into stock prices.
"We're in a waiting game for the next round of good news," said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 53.26 points, or 0.54 percent, to 9,756.53. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 6.1 points, or 0.58 percent, to 1,047.11, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index sagged 29.1 points, or 1.48 percent, to 1,941.64. 
Blue-chip stocks hit a 17-month high and the Nasdaq hit a 22-month high in Friday's session after a report showed businesses created nearly twice as many jobs as expected in October, but they ended the session down as concerns over recent lofty gains in share prices damped enthusiasm.
The data also fanned speculation that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates sooner than anticipated to clamp down on any signs of inflation.
"The economy seems to be picking up steam, and now there are concerns about higher interest rates, higher inflation," said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the United States equity group at Deutsche Bank Private Banking.
Higher interest rates would cut corporate profits as the cost of borrowing rose. 
Technology stocks were a focus yesterday, as Hewlett-Packard fell 99 cents, or 4 percent, to $22.01 after a Lehman Brothers' analyst cut his forecasts for the company's first-quarter revenue. The analyst cited seasonal fluctuations in the sales of printers and computers for large corporations.
Intel slipped 48 cents, to $33.39.
Shares of I.B.M., helped by an article in Barron's magazine on the rise of technology spending, provided one bright spot.
I.B.M. shares rose $1.69, or 2 percent, to $89.95 and ranked among the Dow's biggest percentage gainers after the Barron's report pegged the company as one of the beneficiaries of next year's expected recovery in corporate technology spending.
Circuit City Stores jumped 9 percent, or $1, to $11.63, after Jefferies & Company raised its investment rating, saying the company could possibly be poised for a turnaround.
Tyson Foods shares rose 2 percent, or 24 cents, to $14.47, after the company, the largest United States meat processor, reported higher-than-expected quarterly earnings, helped by strong beef sales as it benefited from a ban on Canadian beef.
Shares of R.R. Donnelley, however, fell $1.47, or 5 percent, to $26.56 after the printer said it would buy the Canadian commercial printer Moore Wallace for $2.8 billion and debt, extending its range of printed products. Moore Wallace jumped 6 percent, or 90 cents, to $16.15.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Bond Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury notes fell a fourth consecutive trading day yesterday for the first time in three months as the government began selling $57 billion of new debt and economists increased their forecasts for growth.
Yields rose more for shorter-maturity notes than for the benchmark 10-year note, after the Treasury's auction of $24 billion of three-year notes. 
Traders moved to increase their bets that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates by the first half of 2004, as jobs increase with the economic expansion. The two-year note is the most sensitive to changes in Fed policy.
By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note lost 2/32 to 9813/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.45 percent from 4.44 percent on Friday. The two-year note dropped 1/32, to 99 7/32; its yield climbed to 2.03 percent from 2.02 percent.
Here are results from yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.764	99.474	High Rate	0.935	1.040	Investment Rate	0.951	1.063	Low Rate	0.905	1.020	Median Rate	0.930	1.035	Total applied for	$44,433,256	$46,803,008	Accepted	$21,510,086	$21,598,322	Noncompetitive	$1,379,131	$887,213	

Both issues are dated Nov. 13. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 12, and the six-month bills mature on March 13.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since July. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BEEF (73%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (60%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (51%); TYSON FOODS INC (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); TSN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (50%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (50%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (50%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



251 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Drama's Lines Evoke Yesterday's Headlines

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
Cherylene Lee's ambitious drama "The Legacy Codes" was inspired by the case of Dr. Wen Ho Lee, the physicist who was accused of passing American nuclear secrets to China. 
 The now notorious investigation of Dr. Lee, in which an overzealous Justice Department attributed sudden leaps in the sophistication of China's nuclear program to its access to computer codes developed by Dr. Lee, eventually focused on tapes of the secret information that he had downloaded from a secure computer. 
 He was arrested and spent nine months in solitary confinement before all serious charges were dropped and he pleaded guilty only to a minor charge of mishandling secret information. He was sentenced to time served.
The play, produced by Pan Asian Repertory and playing at the West End Theater on the Upper West Side through Nov. 23, recreates many details of the case, but it is a clear fiction, with characters from the playwright's imagination. 
It is mostly sympathetic to the fictional Dr. Lee, known here as Dr. Tai Liu and played by Les J. N. Mau. He portrays him as misunderstood and persecuted, a victim of jingoism and racism, but also overbearing and self-involved, a man who acted unwisely (and whose wife did, too), in ways that might well be viewed with suspicion. 
But Ms. Lee, no relation to Wen Ho Lee, has a broader ambition for her play than historical re-creation. She uses the idea of "legacy codes," the formulas for Dr. Lee's computer simulations of nuclear explosions, as an elaborate metaphor for mixed messages: between cultures, between generations, between lovers. 
She posits that Liu and his wife, Ming (Wai Ching Ho), a former Central Intelligence operative, are secretly being investigated chiefly by Richard Fortier (Scott Klavan), an Energy Department security expert whose father was Liu's mentor, and Richard's wife, Diane (Bonnie Black), an F.B.I. agent. The Fortiers' daughter, Minna (Lindsey Gates), is romantically involved with the Lius' son, Erling (Jackson Loo), and there are generational resentments all around.
Dubious coincidences aside, there is something highly admirable about the whole enterprise, but the production ends up being tedious. You really do want to enjoy it, but it's a strain to parse. The most effective of the play's layers is its illustration of how the Fortiers' investigation of the Lius, fueled by cultural differences and mounting mutual suspicions, becomes tainted by bias and paranoia. In an anguished, especially affecting jail house rant, Liu bemoans that 25 years of hard work in the service of America has not served to earn him the identity of an American in the eyes of the others. He's still seen as Chinese.
By comparison the play's other strata -- involving things like Richard's lifelong bitterness toward his father, the disconnect between Liu and Erling, who is more interested in rap singing than science, and Minna's persistent anger at the controlling impulses of her mother -- seem like the stuff of rather ordinary domestic melodrama. They are nonetheless given a thorough airing.
So instead of contributing to the high-stakes tale of espionage and accusation, they feel like extended distractions from it. Ms. Lee clearly has something to say; the play is intellectually thoughtful. But writing with a heavy, pedantic and finally alienating hand, she's her own worst enemy. There are very few conversations in the play that might be deemed naturalistic, that don't involve long speeches in which characters explain their feelings with point by point logic. Throughout, you feel that an economy of expression is missing.
In many ways the play is a long series of debates, making all the performances a little oppressive. A breast-beating self-consciousness pervades the acting, perhaps because the director, Ron Nakahara, has encouraged a high-volume declamatory style of delivery. The actors often seem to be addressing the audience when they should be addressing one another. Otherwise Mr. Nakahara's awkward staging gambits call more attention to themselves than to the scenes they are meant to amplify.

THE LEGACY CODES

By Cherylene Lee; directed by Ron Nakahara; sets by Eric Renschler; costumes by Ingrid Maurer; lighting by Victor En Yu Tan; sound by Christopher Plummer; stage manager, James W. Carringer; assistant stage manager, Elis C. Arroyo. Presented by Pan Asian Repertory Theater, Tisa Chang, artistic/producing director. At the West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, Manhattan.

WITH: Jackson Loo (Erling Liu), Les J. N. Mau (Dr. Tai Liu), Wai Ching Ho (Ming Liu), Scott Klavan (Richard Fortier), Lindsey Gates (Minna Fortier) and Bonnie Black (Diane Fortier).

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Les J. N. Mau, Jackson Loo and Scott Klavan in "The Legacy Codes," by Cherylene Lee, a Pan Asian Repertory Theater production. (Photo by Corky Lee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); PRISONS (75%); SENTENCING (74%); RACE & RACISM (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: HO CHING (79%) WEBER, BRUCE; LEE, CHERYLENE; NAKAHARA, RON 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: LEGACY CODES, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



252 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Support The Troops 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Yesterday's absurd conspiracy theory about the Bush administration has a way of turning into today's conventional wisdom. Remember when people were ridiculed for claiming that Dick Cheney and Paul Wolfowitz, eager to fight a war, were hyping the threat from Iraq?
 Anyway, many analysts now acknowledge that the administration never had any intention of pursuing a conventionally responsible fiscal policy. Rather, its tax cuts were always intended as a way of implementing the radical strategy known as "starve the beast," which views budget deficits as a good thing, a way to squeeze government spending. Did I mention that the administration is planning another long-run tax cut next year? 
 Advocates of the starve-the-beast strategy tend to talk abstractly about "big government." But in fact, squeezing government spending almost always means cutting back or eliminating services people actually want (though not necessarily programs worth their cost). And since it's Veterans Day, let's talk about how the big squeeze on spending may be alienating a surprising group: the nation's soldiers.
One of George W. Bush's major campaign themes in 2000 was his promise to improve the lives of America's soldiers -- and military votes were crucial to his success. But these days some of the harshest criticisms of the Bush administration come from publications aimed at a military audience. 
For example, last week the magazine Army Times ran a story with the headline "An Act of 'Betrayal,' " and the subtitle "In the midst of war, key family benefits face cuts." The article went on to assert that there has been "a string of actions by the Bush administration to cut or hold down growth in pay and benefits, including basic pay, combat pay, health-care benefits and the death gratuity paid to survivors of troops who die on active duty."
At one level, this pattern of cuts is standard operating procedure. Just about every apparent promise of financial generosity this administration has made (other than those involving tax cuts for top brackets and corporate contracts) has turned out to be nonoperational. No Child Left Behind got left behind -- or at least left without funds. AmeriCorps got praised in the State of the Union address, then left high and dry in the budget that followed. New York's firefighters and policemen got a photo-op with the president, but very little money. For that matter, it's clear that New York will never see the full $20 billion it was promised for rebuilding. Why shouldn't soldiers find themselves subject to the same kind of bait and switch?
Yet one might have expected the administration to treat the military differently, if only as a matter of sheer political calculation. After all, the military needs some mollifying: the Iraq war has turned increasingly nightmarish, and deference toward the administration is visibly eroding. Even Pfc. Jessica Lynch has, to her credit, balked at playing her scripted role. 
So what's going on? One answer is that once you've instilled a Scrooge mentality throughout the government, it's hard to be selective. But I also suspect that a government of, by and for the economic elite is having trouble overcoming its basic lack of empathy with the working-class men and women who make up our armed forces.
Some say that Representative George Nethercutt's remark that progress in Iraq is a more important story than deaths of American soldiers was redeemed by his postscript, "which, heaven forbid, is awful." Your call. But it's hard to deny the stunning insensitivity of President Bush's remarks back on July 2: "There are some who feel like that, you know, the conditions are such that they can attack us there. My answer is bring 'em on. We got the force necessary to deal with the security situation." Those are the words of a man who can't imagine himself or anyone close to him actually being in the line of fire.
The question is whether the military will start to feel taken for granted. Publications like Army Times are obviously going off the reservation. Retired military officers, like Gen. Anthony Zinni -- formerly President Bush's envoy to the Middle East -- have started to offer harsh, indeed unprintable, assessments of administration policies. If this disillusionment spreads to the rank and file, the politics of 2004 may be very different from what anyone expects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (77%); DICK CHENEY (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



253 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: In Year of Outsider, an Insider Holds His Own 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10 

 BODY:
If this is going to be the year of the outsider, Representative Richard A. Gephardt is talking up what might seem to be an unlikely asset: his 27 years in Congress.
 While Howard Dean woos voters in the Democratic primaries with an anti-establishment message and dismisses his many rivals from Capitol Hill, Mr. Gephardt is emphasizing his experience as the longtime Democratic leader in the House. 
 He talks about discussing Iraq with the head of the C.I.A. and trade with the president of Mexico. He describes his fight in the corridors of Congress for President Bill Clinton's economic plan and his battle, once the Republicans took control of Congress, against their plans to slow the growth of Medicare. 
It may seem to run against the grain in a campaign season in which the actor Arnold Schwarzenegger has become the Republican governor-elect of California and Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, has become a driving force in the Democratic presidential race.
But given his resume, Mr. Gephardt has little choice, and something seems to be working for him right now -- at least in Iowa, the first caucus state. He has recovered from his September slump and has edged ahead of Dr. Dean in the most recent polls. The Des Moines Register, in a survey of likely caucusgoers released on Sunday, reported that Mr. Gephardt had overtaken Dr. Dean.
As he darts from town to town, Mr. Gephardt is drawing larger crowds and is increasingly described by some Democrats as the most potent adversary to Dr. Dean.
"If you stop the picture right now, with no votes taken, it certainly appears that Dean and Gephardt are two very strong candidates," said Harold M. Ickes, a longtime Democratic strategist.
Mr. Ickes said it was far too early to describe the campaign as a two-man race. But Mr. Gephardt, of Missouri, has already taken to comparing himself to Harry S. Truman, who proved the naysayers wrong on Election Day in 1948.
In the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks, he argues, voters will be carefully weighing candidates' resumes. "While sometimes experience and knowledge and background is not a great argument, I think in this election it is," Mr. Gephardt said in a recent interview. 
"If you were going to get your brain operated on, you wouldn't go to the doctor and say, 'I sure hope you've never done this operation before,' " he said. "Voters are going to want to know that if they're going to vote for you, that they can trust you with this responsibility in a very difficult and dangerous time."
Still, Mr. Gephardt's image as a longtime Washington politician who lost a bid for the presidency in 1988 and then led the Democrats in the House for 13 years, only to see them lose the majority, has already hurt him in some important quarters.
Despite his years as an advocate for labor, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. declined to endorse him earlier, with some officials arguing that his time had come and gone. He suffered another blow when two powerful unions, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and the Service Employees International Union, indicated they were likely to endorse Dr. Dean later this week.
Mr. Gephardt has also struggled to raise money because some donors remain doubtful about his viability. On Friday, campaign officials said that several members of his senior staff had agreed to take pay cuts.
As Mr. Gephardt swings through industrial towns and rural hamlets, some Iowa voters have openly questioned why they should vote for a man who has spent nearly three decades in Congress.
"How do you plan to overcome this impression of being a Washington insider and unelectable?" Bob Meredith, a 55-year-old financial services consultant, asked at a campaign stop a few weeks ago.
Mr. Gephardt said he was the only candidate who could beat President Bush in the battleground states of the Midwest. After listening to Mr. Gephardt discuss his opposition to trade deals with Mexico and China and his call for universal health insurance and international assistance with the war in Iraq, Mr. Meredith said he came away impressed.
"He's got face-to-face knowledge of the issues and the complexity of the issues," Mr. Meredith said. "He comes across very, very positively."
Mr. Gephardt's advisers say they are betting that Mr. Gephardt's long record of fighting for fair trade and Medicare will appeal to voters in Iowa, where 40 percent of caucusgoers are elderly and a third come from union households.
But when pressed, even Mr. Gephardt acknowledges what he describes as "the anti-incumbent, anti-status-quo feeling that's out in the country," although he insists that President Bush is much more vulnerable than he is.
Gordon Fischer, the chairman of the Iowa Democratic Party, said it was still unclear whether Mr. Gephardt's experience would pay off.
At campaign events, Mr. Gephardt emphasizes his modest Midwestern roots, eschewing the dark suits he wears in Congress for checked shirts and khaki trousers. But he says he has never considered playing down his time in Washington.
His years in Congress have left him knowledgeable about issues both familiar and arcane.
But he also disarms people by poking fun at his long presence on the national stage. He often tells his audiences that he has appeared on C-Span so many times that he is routinely stopped by people who recognize his face -- or think they do. 
"People think I'm Dan Quayle," Mr. Gephardt says as his audiences burst out laughing. "And you think you've got problems." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PUBLIC OPINION; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%) GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); DEAN, HOWARD (DR); SWARNS, RACHEL L 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (79%) IOWA

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



254 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Terrorism in Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia has a growing terrorism problem. The latest example is Saturday's terrorist bombing in Riyadh, which tragically killed 17 people, among them 5 children, and wounded 122 others, laying waste to a neighborhood of modest homes. Saudi and American authorities now attribute the slaughter to Al Qaeda. Washington should not hesitate to offer its cooperation in helping to hunt down and prosecute a common terrorist foe. 
 But more effective police work alone will not be enough; Saudi Arabia has arrested some 600 terrorist suspects since May and attacks continue. Faster progress toward democracy, by itself, is not enough. Both are needed, along with greater willingness by Saudi officials to cooperate with foreign law enforcement agencies and an end to Saudi financing of radical Islamic groups that support violence. 
 Judging from the record so far, the sprawling, unaccountable Saudi royal family isn't likely to make these needed changes on its own. Crown Prince Abdullah and his successors will have to be prodded by others, including Washington, to take the drastic steps needed to keep the world's leading oil producer from descending into violent turmoil and to check the rising power of international terrorist groups like Al Qaeda.
America has a huge interest in the struggle for Saudi Arabia's future, and oil is only part of it. Although the latest terrorism appears directed mainly against the Saudi ruling elite, not Westerners, Al Qaeda is a sworn and deadly enemy of the United States. The idea of an Osama bin Laden in control of one-fourth of the world's known oil reserves would be a nightmare come true. 
Saudis have strong reasons to demand radical changes in their governance. In recent years, the population has soared while real oil income has stagnated. Shrinking revenues have been further frittered away by misspending and corruption. Average incomes have plummeted, and opportunities for young people have evaporated. Female Saudis, whose legal, economic and political rights are minimal, have had it worst of all. No real dissent is tolerated, and the courts are cruel and capricious. 
Meanwhile, the extended royal family, which numbers in the thousands, lives in opulence, flouting the puritanical precepts of Wahhabi Islam and draining funds that could be used to create a more modern, diversified economy. Wealthy Saudis send millions abroad to badly monitored religious charities whose schools indoctrinate poor children in other Muslim lands and sometimes recruit them to join armed bands of guerrillas and terrorists. 
Democracy could be a potent remedy for some of these ills, but thus far no significant Saudi democracy movement has arisen. That could change over time if President Bush begins to give substance to the democracy promotion policies he called for in a well-received speech last week. As he rightly noted, Americans cannot be made safer by excusing misgovernment in countries like Saudi Arabia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLITICS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); ARRESTS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (60%) EDITORIALS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; PHILANTHROPY; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (85%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) ;ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) SAUDI ARABIA; RIYADH (SAUDI ARABIA)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



255 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tariffs on Steel Are Illegal, World Trade Organization Says 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization ruled on Monday that steel tariffs imposed by President Bush last year were illegal, clearing the way for the European Union to impose more than $2 billion of sanctions on imports from the United States unless Washington quickly drops the duties.
 The final decision by a W.T.O. panel, which was widely anticipated and has been discussed for weeks at the White House, puts Mr. Bush in a difficult spot. As an election looms, he must choose between continuing to help the steel industry -- which could bolster his electoral prospects in crucial industrial states -- or respecting international trade laws and increasing his chances of winning new regional and global trade agreements. 
 Lifting the tariffs would also please American automakers and other steel-consuming industries, which have complained that the tariffs have increased their costs. 
The European Union has made the president's decision more difficult by aiming its proposed sanctions at products in states considered pivotal in the 2004 election -- threatening, for example, to impose tariffs on citrus fruit imported from Florida.
Administration officials said President Bush had not decided whether to lift the temporary tariffs, which increase the cost of imported steel by as much as 30 percent and were meant to give the ailing steel industry a three-year respite from international competition. 
But the W.T.O. panel ruled that the American tariffs went beyond the rules allowing countries to protect themselves against sudden surges of imports. Monday's decision upheld an original W.T.O. ruling in March on complaints brought by the European Union.
Europe issued a joint statement with Japan, South Korea, Norway, Switzerland, China, New Zealand and Brazil, saying they all welcomed the decision. Those other countries could also now seek to impose sanctions on American imports if the steel tariffs are not removed.
News of the W.T.O's decision came as Mr. Bush headed to Spartanburg, S.C., on a trip aimed at highlighting signs of job growth after nearly two years of recession and to raise campaign cash in a state critical to his re-election.
Mr. Bush spent much of the afternoon at BMW's Spartanburg auto assembly plant, which is a major consumer of steel, most of it domestically manufactured. SteveThies, the president of Spartanburg Steel, which stamps car bodies for BMW, said in an interview that his company was able to obtain an exemption from the tariffs for the small amount of imported specialty steel used in the vehicles.
In fact, the administration has handed out hundreds of such exemptions to manufacturers, to minimize harm to companies and workers in the United States. Mr. Bush's aides have conceded that those exemptions are part of a complex balancing act, a process described recently by one senior administration official as an effort to "make sure we're not saving a steel worker in West Virginia while losing an auto worker in Michigan."
Mr. Bush made no public reference Monday to the steel decision, and his aides defended the president's tariffs as perfectly legal, no matter what the highest court in international trade law ruled.
"They are fully consistent with W.T.O. rules," said Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, talking to reporters aboard Air Force One. "We will carefully review this decision," he said, but he made no statement that the administration would abide by it.
Some members of Congress quickly urged Mr. Bush to ignore the W.T.O. ruling. Rep. Sherrod Brown, a Democrat of Ohio, referred to the W.T.O. as a "secret" court and said the president should let the tariffs run their three-year course, now only half complete.
But Senator Charles E. Grassley, who heads the Senate Finance Committee, urged Mr. Bush not to undercut the organization's authority, even if he does not like its decisions.
"Complying with our W.T.O. obligations is an important sign of American leadership," said Senator Grassley, an Iowa Republican. "The U.S. economy has benefited greatly from our being in the W.T.O."
Since the imposition of tariffs in March 2002, the steel industry has invested more than $3 billion in a streamlining effort, with smaller companies either going into bankruptcy or being bought by bigger companies. 
American steel industry officials said their multibillion-dollar consolidation efforts would be jeopardized if the president lifted the tariffs before the full three years of the program. The officials accused the European Union and its chief trade commissioner, Pascal Lamy, of trying to "blackmail" the United States. 
"It would be a big mistake to buckle under E.U. retaliation," said Thomas J. Usher, chairman and chief executive of U.S. Steel, the biggest American steel maker. "The public is beginning to realize this is a very basic manufacturing issue, and they are all very concerned about losing jobs." 
With the loss of manufacturing jobs shaping up as an important election issue, especially in states like Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, both sides of the debate say the tariffs are becoming a political problem for the president.
American manufacturing companies that use steel have urged the president to lift the tariffs. They say the tariffs have raised their costs, cut their profits and forced them to delay expansion and lay off employees. If those consequences were not reason enough to lift the tariffs, the threatened retaliation completes the argument, said William E. Gaskin, the head of the Consuming Industries Trade Action Coalition Steel Task Force, a lobbying group.
"The U.S. now faces billions of dollars in retaliatory tariffs by our trading partners," Mr. Gaskin said. "For the sake of the U.S. manufacturing sector, it's time to end the tariffs now."
In late September, two reports on the tariffs by a United States government agency, the International Trade Commission, said that the case was muddy and that it was difficult to distinguish whether the tariffs or changing market conditions were responsible for the problems of steel consumers. 
Calculations about the political fallout from the tariffs could be upended by the European Union's proposed list of sanctions. It has said that it plans to aim at agriculture with tariffs on vegetables, fruits and nuts from Florida and California.
Various kinds of clothing -- including coats, underwear, shirts and blouses -- are also on the list, a potential blow to Southern states with ailing textile industries. Steel and metal products, including Harley-Davidson motorcycles, along with paper products, furniture and games also made the list.
Trade experts point out that the United States used similar tactics after the W.T.O. ruled in 1997 against a European Union quota system favoring the import of bananas from its members' former colonies and its ban on American beef raised with hormones.
"The U.S. made its trade sanctions even more onerous on Europe by pinpointing certain countries and having a constantly changing set of retaliation, spreading the pain more broadly," said Richard Cunningham, a trade lawyer at Steptoe & Johnson.
Even without the tariffs, some experts said, global shortages of steel as soon as early next year could raise prices, benefiting the American steel industry.
Trade experts said Monday that a growing demand for steel in China could lead to shortages in the first three months of next year.
"It is my judgment we are going to have a price spike, perhaps a severe one, as steel buyers worry about the availability of raw materials for the steel industry," said Peter Marcus, a managing partner of World Steel Dynamics, an information service based in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 
Unions have joined in the debate. Leo W. Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers of America, said that lifting the tariffs could lead to more bankruptcies in the steel industry, and the loss of his members' medical and retirement benefits.
But Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, said that if Mr. Bush believed that the steel industry needed further relief, he should persuade Congress to provide relief for steel workers and not continue the tariffs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A coil of steel is loaded onto a ship at the Port of Cleveland for delivery to Spain. The European Union could impose sanctions on the United States now that a trade panel has said that steel tariffs are illegal. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (95%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) STEEL AND IRON; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (86%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (86%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NORWAY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); JAPAN (79%) JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; NORWAY; SWITZERLAND; CHINA; NEW ZEALAND; BRAZIL; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



256 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Senator Urges Action on Tax Shelters 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, called yesterday for increased penalties against accounting firms that design and sell abusive tax shelters and announced Congressional hearings next week to spotlight the firms, their executives and their sales practices.
 In a speech prepared for the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City, Mr. Levin said that a one-year Congressional investigation into tax shelters had found a significant and alarming change in sales practices. In previous years, Mr. Levin said in an interview before his speech, tax shelters were something that individuals and corporations entered into after seeking advice from their accountants or lawyers, but shelters today are more likely to be sold to individuals or companies using elaborate mass-marketing efforts "like late-night, cut-rate TV bargains." 
 Some 300 companies may be promoting abusive tax shelters, Mr. Levin said, costing the federal government billions of dollars each year. He said one firm, which he did not identify, marketed a particular tax shelter by making cold calls to thousands of people across the country. The firm set sales goals, he said, and rewarded the telemarketers who met them.
"These are the tactics you might expect of a boiler-room operation selling phony land deals," Mr. Levin said, "but here they are coming from people in our top professions." 
He quoted from an e-mail message written by a senior tax professional at a financial services firm that says it does not promote shelters. Writing to the staff, which had just finished devising a tax shelter product, the professional thanked everyone for their efforts, then said: "Now let's SELL, SELL, SELL!" 
Mr. Levin said: "We have to strengthen the laws regarding tax shelters. We must have penalties that will deter these activities and end conflicts where auditors audit their own work."
To that end, Mr. Levin called for making more stringent the test that determines whether a transaction has a business purpose or has been set up purely to avoid taxes. This test, of the economic substance of a transaction, determines whether something is an abusive shelter.
In addition, he recommended increasing the penalties on those selling illegal shelters. Current penalties provide for fines of $1,000 for promoting an illegal tax shelter and $1,000 for aiding and abetting another's tax evasion. 
In another e-mail message written by a tax professional and cited by Mr. Levin, the writer said that one particular shelter resulted in average fees of $360,000 but carried a maximum penalty of $31,000. "That's some deal," he said. "If you get caught stealing, you only have to give back 10 percent of what you stole." 
Mr. Levin also asked for increased enforcement dollars for the Internal Revenue Service and for support for a bill he proposed last month with two other senators, John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana. Called the Auditor Independence and Tax Shelters Act, it would bar an accounting firm from auditing the books of a public company to which it has sold a tax shelter. 
The Congressional investigation into abusive tax shelters arose out of scrutiny by lawmakers of the failure of Enron and the banks and law firms that helped that company burnish its financial results and hide its indebtedness. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Manhattan district attorney's office sued Citigroup and J.P. Morgan Chase, accusing them of enabling Enron's fraud. The banks settled the suits last July, agreeing to pay almost $300 million in fines and penalties. 
The hearings next week will be by the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Mr. Levin is the ranking minority member of the subcommittee. Hearings sponsored by the Senate Finance Committee three weeks ago found that tax cheating continues to be a problem nationwide, even after many crackdowns announced by the I.R.S. 
Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, said of Mr. Levin's speech: "The organized marketing of tax shelters is something that has got to be stopped. Too many people in the executive branch are turning the cheek to this kind of activity."
Mr. Levin said that the creation and promotion of abusive tax shelters had not received national attention because the products are so complex and labyrinthine. Nevertheless, he said the sales of these shelters are as much a scandal as the accounting frauds and mutual fund misconduct that have dominated the news recently. 
"This is part of a bigger picture of the financial community having to clean house," he said in the interview. "The domination of greed in the financial community has too often corrupted professional standards, and people who should be our leaders in honest dealing too often get down in the muck." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SALES PLAN (77%); TELEMARKETING (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); AUDITS (67%); WRITERS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); ETHICS (63%) TAXATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINES (PENALTIES); TAX SHELTERS; TAX EVASION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%) LEVIN, CARL (SEN); MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



257 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
W.T.O. Rules U.S. Tariffs On Steel Are Illegal
The World Trade Organization ruled that steel tariffs imposed by President Bush last year were illegal, clearing the way for the European Union to impose more than $2 billion of sanctions on imports from the United States unless Washington drops the duties quickly.
 As an election looms, President Bush must choose between continuing to help the steel industry -- which could bolster his electoral prospects in crucial industrial states -- or respecting international trade laws and increasing his chances of winning new regional and global trade agreements. Page A1. 

I.B.M. Helps Promote Linux
I.B.M. and a group of other technology companies are beginning a drive to promote Linux as an alternative to Microsoft's Windows operating system on desktop computers. I.B.M., whose entry into the personal computer business in 1981 made the P.C. a respected business tool, has the influence with corporate customers to give Linux on the desktop real credibility, analysts say. C6.

Wal-Mart Faces Class-Action Suit
Lawyers filed a class-action lawsuit against Wal-Mart in New Jersey, contending that it violated federal racketeering laws by conspiring with cleaning contractors to cheat immigrant janitors out of wages due them. Wal-Mart said that there was no merit to the suit and that it would move for dismissal. A12.

Dispute Over Stock Underwriting
A class-action lawsuit about initial public offerings that produced a ruling favorable to Wall Street bankers also aired an unusual public dispute between the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C11.

Technology shares led a retreat on Wall Street. The Dow fell 53.26 points, to 9,756.53. The S.&P. 500 dropped 6.1 points, to 1,047.11, and the Nasdaq sagged 29.1 points, to 1,941.64. C11.

Gruner & Jahr Accounting at Issue
Lawyers for Rosie O'Donnell argued in her contract dispute trial that Gruner & Jahr, her partner in a magazine joint venture, managed the accounting for the magazine in such a way as to prevent her from leaving. C4.

An accountant for Tyco International told jurors how she and other company employees recorded bonus payments and loans made to the former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, and the former chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz. C3.

Oracle Seeks Halt to Rebates
Oracle asked a Delaware Court to expedite its request for an injunction against a PeopleSoft program that offers refunds to software customers if the company is ever taken over. Oracle says the program could force it to withdraw its $7.3 billion hostile offer. C2.

36% Decline in British Airways Net
British Airways reported a 36 percent decline in second-quarter profits, a result of slimmed-down corporate travel budgets and a wildcat strike. The chairman of British Airways, Lord Marshall, said he would retire after the company's annual meeting in July 2004. He joined British Airways as chief executive in 1983. He will be succeeded by Martin F. Broughton, who is stepping down as chairman of British American Tobacco. World Business, Section W.

Curtailing Medicines From Canada
Brand-name drug makers have stepped up their drive to curtail exports of cheap medicines from Canada to the United States, raising prices in Canada for the first time in several years and imposing restrictions on sales to Canadian pharmacies. Using loopholes in government price controls, several companies have raised drug prices 4 to 8 percent since the summer. World Business, Section W.

Locked Luggage to Return
Airline passengers will be able to confidently lock checked bags again starting tomorrow, thanks to an initiative between private enterprise and the Transportation Security Administration. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,756.53 down 53.26Nasdaq composite -- 1,941.64 down 29.1010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.45% up 0.01The euro -- $1.1496 down 0.0049The dollar -- 108.37 yen down 0.89 Graph tracks I.B.M.'s share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ACCOUNTING (87%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); STRIKES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (74%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); BONUS PAY (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (53%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); TYC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



258 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Curtailing Medicines From Canada 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 10 

 BODY:
Brand-name drug makers have stepped up their drive to curtail exports of cheap medicines from Canada to the United States, raising prices in Canada for the first time in several years and imposing new restrictions on sales to Canadian pharmacies. 
 Using loopholes in Canadian government price controls, several companies have raised drug prices 4 to 8 percent since the summer. Pfizer Canada recently notified customers of price increases on "the majority" of its drugs, the first such increases in a decade. GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and Bayer have also lifted prices on many of their prescription drugs, including Zantac, Prozac and Cipro. 
 On another front, AstraZeneca has imposed stricter sales conditions on Canadian drugstores, requiring written assurance that its products would not be made available for export. 
Jean Jones, former head of the Consumers Association of Canada's health committee, said that, especially among the elderly, "drug costs are a major topic of conversation, and there is apprehension that the American interest in buying drugs here may have an impact." She added, "If there's a loophole, the pharmaceutical companies will find it."
Drugs in Canada typically cost 30 percent to 50 percent less than in the United States as a result of government-imposed price controls, a gap that the recent increases will go only a small way in closing.
The drug industry agreed to the controls in the early 1990's in exchange for the government ending a system of compulsory licensing, which allowed generic versions of drugs to be produced before the normal expiry of patents.
The price gap has encouraged a growing number of Americans to buy their drugs from Internet and mail-order drugstores north of the border. An estimated 140 online drugstores operate in Canada, 62 of them registered in the province of Manitoba. Executives in the online industry estimate that their companies supply about one million Americans with drugs. Pfizer's chief executive, Henry A. McKinnell, told analysts recently that he estimated the cross-border trade at $40 million to $60 million a year at its peak, before August when Pfizer began controlling supplies to Internet pharmacies.
Many American states and municipalities are also calling for the ban on drug imports to be eased. But the drug makers, concerned about the potential erosion of their biggest and most profitable market, are resisting, saying that easing the ban would expose Americans to medications that do not meet Food and Drug Administration standards. 
The effectiveness of efforts by the brand-name companies to choke off supplies to the online pharmacies is hard to judge. IMS Health, a market research group in Montreal, estimated that the growth in wholesale shipmentsof prescription drugs to Canadian pharmacies slowed to 5 percent in the third quarter, compared with the previous three months, from a growth rate of 30 percent in the first three months of this year compared with the fourth quarter of last year.
Still, Billy Shawn, owner of The Canadian Drug Store, one of the biggest online operators, said that his sales reached a record last week, up 15 percent from late October. But he added that doing business had become more difficult. 
"The guys who really need to get supply, get it," Mr. Shawn said. The difference, he said, was that the clampdown by the pharmaceutical groups "has changed the amount of effort it takes to purchase supplies every day."
"What used to take 15 minutes now takes two or three hours," he said.
AstraZeneca said in a letter to pharmacies last month outlining its new sales restrictions that "the demand for our products is still beyond our forecast for Canadian consumption. The implementation of additional measures is now required to ensure continuous supply of product to meet Canadian needs."
Arthur Konviser, a senior vice president at Shoppers Drug Mart, one of Canada's biggest drugstore chains, said there was little doubt that the recent price increases were an attempt by drug makers to narrow the gap between Canada and the United States. Referring to the online pharmacies, Mr. Konviser said, "There is little doubt that they are messing up the system. Canadians are paying a price for this."
Traditional pharmacies have thrown their support behind the drug manufacturers as they view the online drugstores as competitors for supply and pharmacists.
Sylvie Dupont, secretary of the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board in Ottawa, which regulates drug prices for all of Canada, said that drug companies were not legally obliged to obtain the board's approval before raising prices. Instead, manufacturers have to notify the board every six months of price increases during that period. The board has the power to roll back excessive increases, roughly defined as above the overall inflation rate. It has taken such action about 20 times over the last decade. The next notifications are due in January.
Inflation in Canada is running at about 2 percent a year, a level below the recent increases in drug prices. A Pfizer Canada spokesman, Don Sancton, defended the increases, noting that the consumer price index has climbed more than 20 percent since Pfizer last raised prices in 1993. 
One drug industry executive in the United States said that the gap in American and Canadian medicine prices might discourage manufacturers from releasing some new drugs in Canada.
"From now on, if the Canadians don't give us a price close to our United States price, I'm not selling it there," he said. "I would rather not have people in Congress see us launch a new product in the United States with a price a lot higher than our Canadian price."
Krista Apse, a spokeswoman for the federal health department in Ottawa, said there was no evidence that Internet pharmacies were posing an unacceptable health risk or that there was a shortage of drugs in Canada.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Canadian pharmacists in Winnipeg, Manitoba, handling a package of prescription drugs for a group of elderly customers who had traveled nine hours by bus from Minnesota for cheaper medicine. (Photo by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PHARMACIES (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); PATENTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); SALES 

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (90%); ELI LILLY & CO (90%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (90%); PFIZER INC (58%); PFIZER CANADA INC (57%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC; GLAXOSMITHKLINE; LILLY, ELI, & CO; BAYER AG; ASTRAZENECA 

TICKER: AZN (STO) (90%); AZN (NYSE) (90%); AZN (LSE) (90%); LLY (SWX) (90%); LLY (NYSE) (90%); LEL (LSE) (90%); GSK (NYSE) (90%); GSK (LSE) (90%); BIOC (EGX) (90%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: ;SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) MANITOBA, CANADA (91%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



259 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Is War Our Biological Destiny? 

BYLINE:  By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
In these days of hidebound militarism and round-robin carnage, when even that beloved ambassador of peace, the Dalai Lama, says it may be necessary to counter terrorism with violence, it's fair to ask: Is humanity doomed? Are we born for the battlefield -- congenitally, hormonally incapable of putting war behind us? Is there no alternative to the bullet-riddled trapdoor, short of mass sedation or a Marshall Plan for our DNA? 
 Was Plato right that "Only the dead have seen the end of war"? 
 In the heartening if admittedly provisional opinion of a number of researchers who study warfare, aggression, and the evolutionary roots of conflict, the great philosopher was, for once, whistling in a cave. As they see it, blood lust and the desire to wage war are by no means innate. To the contrary, recent studies in the field of game theory show just how readily human beings establish cooperative networks with one another, and how quickly a cooperative strategy reaches a point of so-called fixation. Researchers argue that one need not be a Pollyanna, or even an aging hippie, to imagine a human future in which war is rare and universally condemned. 
They point out that slavery was long an accepted fact of life; if your side lost the battle, tough break, the wifeand kids were shipped off as slaves to the victors. Now, when cases of slavery arise in the news, they are considered perverse and unseemly.
The incentive to make war similarly anachronistic is enormous, say the researchers, though they worry that it may take the dropping of another nuclear bomb in the middle of a battlefield before everybody gets the message. "I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought," Albert Einstein said, "but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones."
Admittedly, war making will be a hard habit to shake. "There have been very few times in the history of civilization when there hasn't been a war going on somewhere," said Victor Davis Hanson, a military historian and classicist at California State University in Fresno. He cites a brief period between A.D. 100 and A.D. 200 as perhaps the only time of world peace, the result of the Roman Empire's having everyone, fleetingly, in its thrall. 
Archaeologists and anthropologists have found evidence of militarism in perhaps 95 percent of the cultures they have examined or unearthed. Time and again groups initially lauded as gentle and peace-loving -- the Mayas, the !Kung of the Kalahari, Margaret Mead's Samoans, -- eventually were outed as being no less bestial than the rest of us. A few isolated cultures have managed to avoid war for long stretches. The ancient Minoans, for example, who populated Crete and the surrounding Aegean Islands, went 1,500 years battle-free; it didn't hurt that they had a strong navy to deter would-be conquerors. 
Warriors have often been the most esteemed of their group, the most coveted mates. And if they weren't loved for themselves, their spears were good courtship accessories. This year, geneticists found evidence that Genghis Khan, the 13th century Mongol emperor, fathered so many offspring as he slashed through Asia that 16 million men, or half a percent of the world's male population, could be his descendants.
Wars are romanticized, subjects of an endless, cross-temporal, transcultural spool of poems, songs, plays, paintings, novels, films. The battlefield is mythologized as the furnace in which character and nobility are forged; and, oh, what a thrill it can be. "The rush of battle is a potent and often lethal addiction," writes Chris Hedges, a reporter for The New York Times who has covered wars, in "War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning." Even with its destruction and carnage, he adds, war "can give us what we long for in life."
"It can give us purpose, meaning, a reason for living," he continues.
Nor are humans the only great apes to indulge in the elixir. Common chimpanzees, which share about 98 percent of their genes with humans, also wage war: gangs of neighboring males meet at the borderline of their territories with the express purpose of exterminating their opponents. So many males are lost to battle that the sex ratio among adult chimpanzees is two females for every male. 
And yet there are other drugs on the market, other behaviors to sate the savage beast. Dr. Frans de Waal, a primatologist and professor of psychology at Emory University, points out that a different species of chimpanzee, the bonobo, chooses love over war, using a tantric array of sexual acts to resolve any social problems that arise. Serious bonobo combat is rare, and the male-to-female ratio is, accordingly, 1:1. Bonobos are as closely related to humans as are common chimpanzees, so take your pick of which might offer deeper insight into the primal "roots" of human behavior. 
Or how about hamadryas baboons? They're surly,but not silly. If you throw a peanut in front of a male, Dr. de Waal said, it will pick it up happily and eat it. Throw the same peanut in front of two male baboons, and they'll ignore it. "They'll act as if it doesn't exist," he said. "It's not worth a fight between two fully grown males."
Even the ubiquitousness of warfare in human history doesn't impress researchers. "When you consider it was only about 13,000 years ago that we discovered agriculture, and that most of what we're calling human history occurred since then," said Dr. David Sloan Wilson, a biology and anthropology professor at Binghamton University in New York, "you see what a short amount of time we've had to work toward global peace." 
In that brief time span, the size of cooperative groups has grown steadily, and by many measures more pacific. Maybe 100 million people died in the world wars of the 20th century. Yet Dr. Lawrence H. Keeley, a professor of anthropology at the University of Illinois at Chicago, has estimated that if the proportion of casualties in the modern era were to equal that seen in many conflicts among preindustrial groups, then perhaps two billion people would have died.
Indeed, national temperaments seem capable of rapid, radical change. The Vikings slaughtered and plundered; their descendants in Sweden haven't fought a war in nearly 200 years, while the Danes reserve their fighting spirit for negotiating better vacation packages. The tribes of highland New Guinea were famous for small-scale warfare, said Dr. Peter J. Richerson, an expert in cultural evolution at the University of California at Davis. "But when, after World War II, the Australian police patrols went around and told people they couldn't fight anymore, the New Guineans thought that was wonderful," Dr. Richerson said. "They were glad to have an excuse."
Dr. Wilson cites the results of game theory experiments: participants can adopt a cheating strategy to try to earn more for themselves, but at the risk of everybody's losing, or a cooperative strategy with all earning a smaller but more reliable reward. In laboratories around the world, researchers have found that participants implement the mutually beneficial strategy, in which cooperators are rewarded and noncooperators are punished. "It shows in a very simple and powerful way that it's easy to get cooperation to evolve to fixation, for it to be the successful strategy," he said. There is no such quantifiable evidence or theoretical underpinning in favor of Man the Warrior, he added.
As Dr. de Waal and many others see it, the way to foment peace is to encourage interdependency among nations, as in the European Union. "Imagine if France were to invade Germany now," he said. "That would upset every aspect of their economic world," not the least one being France's reliance on the influx of German tourists. "It's not as if Europeans all love each other," Dr. de Waal said. "But you're not promoting love, you're promoting economic calculations." 
It's not just the money. Who can put a price tag on the pleasures to be had from that wholesome, venerable sport -- making fun of the tourists?

GRAPHIC: Photo: A United States Army tank crew in Baghdad and, inset, a Greek sculpture of two warriors, from the seventh or eighth century B.C. Archaeologists and anthropologists have evidence of militarism in about 95 percent of cultures they have studied. (Photo by Faleh Kheiber/Reuters; inset, Adam Woolfitt/Corbis)(pg. F12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); CLASSICS (89%); SLAVERY (87%); TERRORISM (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); HISTORY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); PRIMATES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (56%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Monkeys and Apes; Research; War and Revolution; Archaeology and Anthropology

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%) Binghamton University (NY)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (73%) Natalie Angier; David Sloan (Dr) Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (67%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (59%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



260 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2639 words

HEADLINE: Does Science Matter? 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. BROAD and JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
Through its rituals of discovery, science has extended life, conquered disease and offered new sexual and commercial freedoms. It has pushed aside demigods and demons and revealed a cosmos more intricate and awesome than anything produced by pure imagination. 
 But there are new troubles in the peculiar form of paradise that science has created, as well as new questions about whether it has the popular support to meet the future challenges of disease, pollution, security, energy, education, food, water and urban sprawl. 
 The public seems increasingly intolerant of grand, technical fixes, even while it hungers for new gadgets and drugs. It has also come to fear the potential consequences of unfettered science and technology in areas like genetic engineering, germ warfare, global warming, nuclear power and the proliferation of nuclear arms. 
Tension between science and the public has thrown up new barriers to research involving deadly pathogens, stem cells and human cloning. Some of the doubts about science began with the environmental movement of the 1960's.
"The bloom has been coming off the rose since 'Silent Spring,' " said Dr. John H. Gibbons, President Bill Clinton's science adviser, of Rachel Carson's 1962 book on the ravages of DDT. Until then, he said, "People thought of science as a cornucopia of goodies. Now they have to choose between good and bad."
"The urgency," he said, "is to re-establish the fundamental position that science plays in helping devise uses of knowledge to resolve social ills. I hope rationality will triumph. But you can't count on it. As President Chirac said, we've lost the primacy of reason."
Science has also provoked a deeper unease by disturbing traditional beliefs. Some scientists, stunned by the increasing vigor of fundamentalist religion worldwide, wonder if old certainties have rushed into a sort of vacuum left by the inconclusiveness of science on the big issues of everyday life.
"Isn't it incredible that you have so much fundamentalism, retreating back to so much ignorance?" remarked Dr. George A. Keyworth II, President Ronald Reagan's science adviser.
The disaffection can be gauged in recent opinion surveys. Last month, a Harris poll found that the percentage of Americans who saw scientists as having "very great prestige" had declined nine percentage points in the last quarter-century, down to 57 from 66 percent. Another recent Harris poll found that most Americans believe in miracles, while half believe in ghosts and a third in astrology -- hardly an endorsement of scientific rationality.
"There's obviously a kind of national split personality about these things," said Dr. Owen Gingerich, a historian of astronomy at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics who speaks often of his Christian faith.
"Science gives you very cold comfort at times of death or sickness or so on," Dr. Gingerich said. 
In this atmosphere of ambivalence, research priorities have become increasingly politicized, some scientists say.
"Right now it's about as bad as I've known it," said Dr. Sidney Drell, a Stanford University physicist who has advised the federal government on national security issues for more than 40 years.
As the world marches into a century born amid fundamentalist strife in oil-producing nations, a divisive political climate in the United States and abroad and ever more sophisticated challenges to scientific credos like Darwin's theory of evolution, it seems warranted to ask a question that runs counter to centuries of Western thought: Does science matter? Do people care about it anymore?

The Context
Breakthroughs And Disenchantment
Clearly, science has mattered a lot, for a long time. Advances in food, public health and medicine helped raise life expectancy in the United States in the past century from roughly 50 to 80 years. So too, world population between 1950 and 1990 more than doubled, now exceeding six billion. Biology discovered the structure of DNA, made test-tube babies and cured diseases. And the decoding of the human genome is leading scientists toward a detailed understanding of how the body works, offering the hope of new treatments for cancer and other diseases.
"For a lot of people, life has gotten better," said Dr. James D. Watson, co-discoverer of the double helix. "You don't know what it was like in 1950. It wasn't just the dreariness of Bing Crosby that made life tough."
In physics, breakthroughs produced digital electronics and subatomic discoveries. American rocket science won the space race, put men on the moon, probed distant planets and lofted hundreds of satellites, including the Hubble Space Telescope.
But major problems also arose: acid rain, environmental toxins, the Bhopal chemical disaster, nuclear waste, global warming, the ozone hole, fears over genetically modified food and the fiery destruction of two space shuttles, not to mention the curse of junk e-mail. Such troubles have helped feed social disenchantment with science.
When the cold war ended, the physical sciences began to lose luster and funding. After spending $2 billion, Congress killed physicists' pre-eminent endeavor, the Superconducting Super Collider, an enormous particle accelerator.
"Suddenly, Congress wasn't interested in science anymore," said Fred Jerome, a science policy analyst at the New School.
At the same time, industry spending on research soared to twice that of the federal government, about $180 billion last year, according to the National Science Foundation. One result is that Americans see more drugs, cellphones, advanced toys, innovative cars and engineered foods and less news about the fundamental building blocks and great shadowy vistas of the universe.
The main exceptions to the downward trend in the federal science budget are for health and weapons. This year, spending on military research hit $58 billion, higher in fixed dollars than during the cold war. 
Meanwhile, other countries are spending more on research, taking some of the glory that America once monopolized. Japan, Taiwan and South Korea now account for more than a quarter of all American industrial patents, according to CHI Research. Europe is working on what will be the world's most powerful atom smasher. The British are now flying the first probe in a quarter century to look for evidence of life on Mars.

The Contradictions
New Challenges, But Also Threats
Despite the explosion in the life sciences, cancer still darkens many lives, and the flowering of biotechnology has fed worries about genetically modified foods and organisms as well as the pending reinvention of what it means to be human. Many people worry that the growing power of genetics will sully the sanctity of human life.
Last month, the President's Council on Bioethics issued a report warning that biotechnology in pursuit of human perfection could lead to unintended and destructive ends. Experts also worry about terrorists using advances in biology for intentional harm, perhaps on vast new scales.
"As this becomes ever easier and cheaper, it's only a matter of time before some misguided people decide to infect the world," said Dr. Philip Kitcher, a philosopher of science at Columbia University. Last month, a panel of the National Academy of Sciences recommended wide review of experiments that could lead to biological weapons.
The physical sciences seem to have lost what was once a good story line. Without the space race and the cold war, and perhaps facing intrinsic limits as well as declining budgets, they are slightly adrift. Some observers worry that physics has entered a phase of diminishing returns. That themeruns through "The End of Science," a 1997 book by John Horgan.
In an interview, Mr. Horgan noted that physicists no longer make nuclear arms and have lost momentum on taming fusion energy, which powers the sun, and on developing a theory of everything, a kind of mathematical glue that would unite the sciences. Abstract physics, he said, "has wandered off into the fantasy land of higher dimensions and superstring theory and has really lost touch with reality."
Other experts disagree, noting that scientific fields rise and fall in cycles and that physics may be poised for new strides. "You can smell discovery in the air," said Dr. Leon M. Lederman, a Nobel laureate in physics and an architect of the supercollider. "The sense of imminent revolution is very strong."
Despite the decline in prestige recorded in the recent Harris poll, scientists still top the list of 22 professions in terms of high status, ahead of doctors, teachers, lawyers and athletes.
"Science is one of the charismatic activities," said Dr. Gerald Holton, a professor of physics and the history of science at Harvard. "This keeps our interest in science at some level even if we are deeply troubled by some aspects of its technical misuse." 
Polls by the National Science Foundation perennially identify contradictions. Its latest numbers show that 90 percent of adult Americans say they are very or moderately interested in science discoveries. Even so, only half the survey respondents knew that the Earth takes a year to go around the Sun.
"The easy answer is, 'Oh, I'm interested,' " said Melissa Pollak, a senior analyst at the National Science Foundation. "I'm not quite sure I believe those responses."

The Competition
The Battles Increase Over Darwin's Theory
A simple number jars many scientists: about two-thirds of the public believe that alternatives to Darwin's theory of evolution should be taught in public schools alongside this bedrock concept of biology itself.
The organized opposition to the mainstream theory of evolution has become vastly more sophisticated and influential than it was, say, 25 years ago. The leading foes of Darwin espouse a theory called "intelligent design," which holds that purely random natural processes could never have produced humans. These foes are led by a relatively small group of people with various academic and professional credentials, including some with advanced degrees in science and even university professorships. 
Backers of intelligent design say they are simply pointing up shortcomings in Darwin's theory. Scientists have publicly rallied in response, last week staving off an effort at the Texas State Board of Education to have intelligent design taught alongside evolution.
"It just absolutely boggles the mind," said Dr. James Langer, a physicist at the University of California at Santa Barbara who is vice president of the National Academy of Sciences. "I wouldn't want my doctor thinking that intelligent design was an equally plausible hypothesis to evolution any more than I would want my airplane pilot believing in the flat Earth."
Science has, in fact, sold itself from the start as something more than a utilitarian exercise in developing technologies and medicines. Einstein -- who often used religious and philosophical language to explain his discoveries -- seemed to tell humanity something fundamental about the fabric of existence. More recently, the cosmologist Stephen Hawking said that discovering a better theory of gravitation would be like seeing into "the mind of God."
Such rhetorical flourishes are as much derided as admired by the bulk of working scientists, who as a culture have drifted closer to the thinking of Steven Weinberg, another Nobel Prize winner in particle physics, who famously wrote that "the more the universe seems comprehensible, the more it also seems pointless."
That almost militantly atheistic view helps some observers explain how science has come into bitter conflict with particular religious groups, especially biblical literalists.
"What accentuates the fault line," said Dr. Ernan McMullin, a Roman Catholic priest who is a former director of the history and philosophy of science program at Notre Dame, is that "the scientists see their science being attacked and they immediately rush to the battlements."
"I think they rather enjoy seeing themselves as a persecuted minority instead of as the dominant force in the culture, which they really are," he said.

The Future
Urgent Goals For Governments
Industry looks to short-term goals and has proven highly adept at using science to take care of itself and consumers. A far more uncertain issue is whether the federal government can successfully address issues of human welfare that lie well beyond the industrial horizon -- years, decades and even centuries ahead.
"Science is still the wellspring of new options," Dr. Gibbons said. "How else are we going to face the issues of the 21st century on things like the environment, health, security, food and energy?"
Some experts believe that despite the gnawing doubts today, the world will be ever more inclined to seek scientific answers to those questions in the decades to come. "It will probably accelerate," said Dr. John H. Marburger III, President Bush's science adviser, "because it will become increasingly obvious that we need this steady infusion of results to sustain our ability to cope with all these social problems."
An urgent goal, experts say, is to develop new sources of energy, which will become vitally important as oil becomes increasingly scarce. Another is to better understand the nuances of climate change, for instance, how the sun and ocean affect the atmosphere. Such work is in its infancy. Another is to develop ways of countering the spread of nuclear arms and germ weapons.
The world will also need a new science of cities, to help coordinate planning in areas like waste, water use, congestion, highways, hazard mitigation and pollution control.
"It's going to take a lot of work," said Dr. Grant Heiken, an editor of "Earth Science in the City," a collection of essays just published by the American Geophysical Union in Washington. The number of urban dwellers is expected to grow from three billion now to five billion by 2025.
"I don't know if we'll get a new science," Dr. Heiken said, "but we damn well better."
Dr. Richard E. Smalley, a Rice University professor and Nobel laureate in chemistry, argues that new technologies and conservation can probably solve the world's energy needs. But success, he said, requires a new army of scientists and engineers.
Like others, Dr. Smalley worries about a significant shift in the demographics of American graduate schools in science and engineering. By 1999, according to the latest figures from the National Science Foundation, the number of foreign students in full-time engineering programs had soared so high that it exceeded, for the first time, the steeply declining number of Americans.
"Where the bright kids and the big action are is in Asia," Dr. Smalley said. "That's great for them. It is not what I would hope for our country and our economic well-being or our national security."
Whether the complex challenges of today generate a new era of scientific greatness, several scientists said, may depend on how a deeply conflicted public answers the question of whether science still matters.
In many ways, it all boils down to "a schism between people who have accepted the modern scientific view of the world and the people who are fighting that," said Dr. David Baltimore, the Nobel Prize-winning biologist who is president of the California Institute of Technology.
"Scientists are presenting a much more complicated, much less ethically grounded view of the world, and it's hard for people to take that in," he added.
Some experts warn that if support for science falters and if the American public loses interest in it, such apathy may foster an age in which scientific elites ignore the public weal and global imperatives for their own narrow interests, producing something like a dictatorship of the lab coats.
"For any man to abdicate an interest in science," Jacob Bronowski, the science historian, wrote, "is to walk with open eyes towards slavery."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photos by Astronauts, Associated Press; hand, Michael Stravato for The New York Times; fish, Associated Press; child, Thomas Wartik; Stephen Hawking, Reuters; rat, Associated Press; nurse and patient, Agence France-Presse. Photo illustration by Eric Yang.)(pg. F1) Chart: "A Shift in Research Dollars ..."Spending on scientific research, by sector. Adjusted for inflation, in 2002 dollars. Graph tracks spending on scientific research by sector of independent research, and federal research since 1953. (Source by National Science Foundation)(pg. F12) ... and Public ImagePercentage of survey respondents who said that each occupation was one of "very great prestige." SCIENTISTS -- Their profession ranks highest, but not as high as it once did.1977: 66%2003: 57%DOCTOR: 52%TEACHER: 49NURSE: 47MILITARY OFFICER: 46MEMBER OF CONGRESS: 30ARCHITECT: 24LAWYER: 17ATHLETE: 17JOURNALIST: 15ACTOR: 13STOCKBROKER: 8REAL ESTATE AGENT: 6 (Source by Harris Interactive)(pg. F12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); FUNDAMENTALISM (86%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); CLONING (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); HISTORY (73%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (73%); PHYSICS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); HUMAN CLONING (68%); TERRORISM (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%) Science and Technology; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Genetics and Heredity; Public Opinion; Medicine and Health; Science and Technology; Space; Terrorism; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%) California Institute of Technology

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (55%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%) William J Broad; James Glanz; David (Dr) Baltimore

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003 



261 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Sponsor Spurns Ballet Theater 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
The Movado Watch Company has withdrawn its considerable financial support from American Ballet Theater and given it instead to the New York City Ballet, saying it was forced to do so because of financial mismanagement at Ballet Theater.
 Movado, based in Paramus, N.J., has been a principal sponsor of Ballet Theater since 1986, donating money, underwriting advertising and financing special programs; in one, it sold a Ballet Theater watch and donated a percentage of the proceeds to the troupe. Taken together, the support has amounted to more than $400,000 a year, Movado said. 
 Movado's decision would seem to be a severe blow to Ballet Theater, which has been struggling financially over the last several years, particularly in an economic climate in which contributions have been hard to come by. 
In a letter to Ballet Theater's board yesterday, Gedalio Grinberg, chairman of Movado, said: "Management's actions and style have been inconsistent with my principles." Mr. Grinberg, who served on Ballet Theater's board for almost 20 years, including one as chairman, is widely known to have been unhappy with the company's reliance on the financial support of its new chairman, Lewis S. Ranieri.
Mr. Grinberg resigned from the Ballet Theater board in June to protest its ouster of a fellow member, Lewis P. Geyser, a lawyer and real estate developer. Mr. Geyser had questioned Ballet Theater's financial accountability and Mr. Ranieri's leadership.
In his letter, Mr. Grinberg said the removal of Mr. Geyser factored into Movado's decision.
"I was particularly concerned about the expulsion of a member of the board because he was critical of the way the company was managed," the letter said. "The expulsion took place after I was led to believe by the chairman of the board that it would not happen."
Asked to respond in an interview yesterday, Mr. Ranieri said only that he had "nothing but respect" for Mr. Grinberg. He added that Movado's decision had opened new sponsorship opportunities for Ballet Theater. "We're working on a number," he said. Since becoming chairman in August 2002, Mr. Ranieri -- chairman of his own investment firm, Hyperion Partners -- has used his personal wealth to cover Ballet Theater's basic operating expenses, including expanded marketing, dancers' housing and salaries. 
Under Mr. Ranieri the company has added several high-paying positions, company documents show. Those include a director of human resources at $100,000 a year, a part-time general counsel at $100,000 and an artistic adviser, the former star dancer Susan Jaffe, at $125,000.
Mr. Ranieri and the board's president, Robin Neustein, who is also a senior director at Goldman Sachs, jointly cover Ms. Jaffe's salary out of their own pockets, the documents show. This year Mr. Ranieri bought dancers memberships to the Equinox health club. He also offered to buy tickets for the dancers' family members to see Ballet Theater's fall season at City Center, which ended Sunday. Ballet Theater performs its spring season at the Metropolitan Opera House at Lincoln Center, adjacent to the New York State Theater, home of the City Ballet. 
Some people at Ballet Theater are concerned that the company has become too dependent on one man, and that Mr. Ranieri is not preparing the company to sustain these new expenditures. Mr. Ranieri said yesterday, "The whole plan is to make the company self-sufficient."
In addition several people associated with the company, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that board executives had failed to be forthright with trustees about Ballet Theater's financial situation.
"For months no financial statements have been issued," Mr. Geyser said in an interview. "The chairman and other top officers of the board have permitted A.B.T. to commit itself to present and future expenses without themselves committing in writing to bear those expenses." He added, "Until the board of trustees takes control and prevents these few select officers from continuing on this path, the fragile financial and artistic structure of A.B.T. will continue to be terribly undermined." 
Mr. Geyser said that the company had been counting the endowment as part of its overall cash flow, but that those funds cannot be used for operating expenses. "My understanding is the deficit is $3 million or $4 million," he said. Mr. Ranieri said this was untrue. "Our balance sheet went up," he said. "It was a good year."
Ms. Neustein, the board president, said the company's finances were solid. "A.B.T. is in very strong financial health, and its budget is under control," she said. 
Staff members at Ballet Theater, also insisting on anonymity, said they were frustrated with the company's gaps in upper management. There has been no executive director since June, when Elizabeth Harpel Kehler resigned after only 10 months. Afterward Mr. Ranieri established an office for himself at Ballet Theater's Manhattan headquarters, at 890 Broadway; it is unusual for a chairman to handle day-to-day operations. 
Ms. Kehler was the company's third executive director in three years, having followed Wallace Chappell, who also lasted less than a year. Mr. Chappell's predecessor, Louis G. Spisto, was forced to resign in 2001 amid accusations of mismanagement and sex and age discrimination, charges he denied. Mr. Ranieri said the search for a new executive director was well under way.
Complicating matters, Nancy Fleeter, the company's general manager and chief operating officer, has been out of the office with an illness. 
In June 2002 Mr. Grinberg tried to lead Ballet Theater into becoming the resident company at the Kennedy Center in Washington. The plan could have brought the company financial stability, but it also would have required that it give up final control over its budget. Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center, has been credited with saving Ballet Theater from bankruptcy when he was its executive director in the 1990's.
Instead the board decided to remain independent and named Mr. Ranieri chairman. He had pledged $2 million to the company and vowed to help raise $30 million for the endowment over the next three years. Ballet Theater has about 50 trustees, most of whom seem to support Mr. Ranieri's leadership. 
Mr. Grinberg commended City Ballet's financial management. City Ballet said Movado's support would go toward its Balanchine Centennial celebration, which begins with a gala performance on Nov. 25. Peter Martins, City Ballet's ballet master, said in a statement, "We were delighted to have Movado's support and participation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); DANCERS (89%); THEATER (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); HUMAN RESOURCES (68%); LAWYERS (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) DANCING; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MOVADO WATCH CO SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (95%) AMERICAN BALLET THEATER; NEW YORK CITY BALLET; MOVADO GROUP INC 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3915 JEWELERS FINDINGS & MATERIALS & LAPIDARY WORK (58%) SIC3873 WATCHES; 

PERSON: LEW RANIERI (89%) GRINBERG, GEDALIO; GEYSER, LEWIS; RANIERI, LEWIS; POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



262 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: The Big Apple Circus 

BYLINE:  By Dan Barber; Dan Barber is the chef and owner of Blue Hill, a Manhattan restaurant.

 BODY:
This is the story of two apples that live just across the street from each other.
 One apple, the Winesap, grew up in upstate New York and is on sale, alongside more than 90 other apple varieties, at the Union Square Greenmarket. 
 Just across from the market, on the southwest corner of 17th Street, at one of those privately owned fruit and vegetable carts scattered throughout New York City, there resides another apple: the Granny Smith, an American icon, but grown in South Africa. Stacked shoulder-to-shoulder in their cardboard boxes, these apples have been waxed and polished to a uniform luster. The cart's umbrella proudly declares "Farm Fresh!" -- which is not quite accurate because the cart is separated from the farm in question by the Atlantic Ocean. 
Two apples, roughly 50 feet (and a traffic light) apart. How does one choose? And does the choice matter? 
Well, let's review their histories. The Winesaps at the market are grown and sold by two dozen or so Hudson Valley apple farms -- third-generation family orchards like Red Jacket, Locust Grove, Samascott and Breezy Hill. These farms, all of which I buy from, are woven into the fabric of their communities. They employ dozens of workers from nearby towns, most donate apples to church and school functions, and they are profitable enough to give the next generation in the family a reason to stick around and keep the enterprise going.
The "farm fresh" apple, on the other hand, is produced by a large corporation with investments and interests spanning the globe. (South Africa isn't alone in exporting mass-grown apples, though it ships 220 metric tons of them a year to the United States. New Zealand, China and Washington State, among other places, produce them in vast quantities, too.) 
I'll purchase fruits and vegetables from large industrial farms. In New York, in the middle of the winter, there's really no other way to get a pineapple. But given the choice of getting my winter apples from a large corporation or a family farm in the Hudson Valley, I'm decidedly less enthused by foreign competition.
Where an apple comes from is only part of the equation. How it'sgrown matters, too. The Winesap has never been cultivated alone. On Red Jacket's farm, for example, it is one of 16 different varieties. Surrounding the orchards are different fruits and vegetables that create diversity and help support natural predators and the wider ecosystem. The farm fresh industrial apple is grown in a monoculture, a world where there is hardly any natural diversity -- just other Granny Smith apples.
Yes, the Winesap apple costs about $1.20 a pound. Its counterpart goes for roughly 50 cents a pound. A big difference, to be sure. But this discounted apple ignores a laundry list of invisible costs. If you take into account the environmental consequences of large-scale apple production, heavy pesticide use and the energy it takes to ship an apple around the world, the Granny Smith doesn't seem quite as much of a bargain.
And then there's the taste. The Winesap is an original Northeast variety. When you bite into it -- or a Braeburn or a Jonagold -- you taste the sugar, the texture and the acidity. There is an overpowering aroma of citrus and melon. The "farm fresh" apple is bred for long-distance travel. From a chef's perspective, the discussion should begin and end with taste. 
But there are other, perhaps more powerful arguments. All politics is local, particularly when it comes to food. New York's small apple producers need our support. In 1985, 104 apple farms covered 11,629 acres in Ulster County. By the end of 2001 (the most recent year for which state government statistics are available) the number of farms had fallen to 56 on 5,669 acres. In this same period, foreign apple imports have risen dramatically. South Africa's apple exports (as well as exports from New Zealand and Chile) have grown exponentially.
What's more, the influx of apples has encouraged us to believe that the fruit is always in season, always cheap and plentiful and fit for a child's lunch box or a teacher's desk. We have forgotten that the system that brings us inexpensive food from far away also makes it possible for us to ignore the economic and environmental impact this sort of farming has on places we cannot see. 
When you buy a Greenmarket apple, the money is going directly into the pocket of that farmer instead of merchants, transporters, processors, packagers and advertisers -- all of whom thrive at the expense of both consumer and farmer. 
Quite soon, I imagine, it will be possible to consistently find a tasty imported apple. If nothing more, it will always be a less expensive apple. The efficiencies of the industrial food business can, paradoxically, get a South African apple to your door faster than a farmer in Ulster County can. At times, because of the vagaries of Northeast weather, the mass-grown apple arrives in better physical condition. To choose these apples (or tomatoes, or asparagus or peas) is to cast a ballot, and the consequences are not benign, particularly in a year that has been hailed by apple farmers from Ulster to Ontario Counties as the most blessed and abundant apple harvest in ages.
If you have a choice -- and right now New Yorkers have a choice -- buy local apples while they're in season. Cook with them for the holidays. Turn them into applesauce. Bake apple pies. And understand that there's a reason we celebrate apples that never fall far from the tree.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter Hoey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (79%); FAMILY FARMS (74%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (68%) APPLES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENMARKET (ORGN) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: BARBER, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CHINA (74%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



263 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1941 words

HEADLINE: Failed Pensions: A Painful Lesson in Assumptions 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
Robert M. Bowden retired from his job as accounts manager for a large trucking company with a plan to travel for himself.
 But his company's pension plan collapsed this year, and his annual payout was cut to $24,000 from $48,000. 
 Mr. Bowden and other retirees of the company, CNF, see a culprit. In a lawsuit, they accuse the company of failing for many years to set aside enough money in the plan. The company did this, they say, by assuming they would retire much later than they really did. Though the CNF plan offered full benefits to people as young as 55, the company projected people would stick to their desks until they turned 64. 
A look at documents made public in the retirees' fight at CNF and at a few other companies, including US Airways and Bethlehem Steel, shows that companies have great leeway to tweak certain crucial assumptions about the future -- when their workers will retire, how long they will live, and which way interest rates will move, among others.
A year shaved off an estimate here, a decimal point's difference there can significantly reduce a company's pension obligations on paper. The company can save millions of dollars in pension contributions.
But if a company shortchanges its pension fund year after year and the company then gets into trouble, the plan that looked healthy can fail, seemingly out of nowhere, leaving workers stranded.
"I'm in a financial survival mode," Mr. Bowden said. At 59, he recently refinanced his mortgage in Lake Oswego, Ore., to conserve cash while looking for a cheaper place to live.
Assumptions that the government considers inadequate contributed to the demise of almost all of the roughly 150 pension plans that failed in the last year. Current detailed information about pension plans is not routinely disclosed, however.
 The painful lesson for employees comes as companies press Congress for permanent relaxation of some provisions of the pension funding law. One measure, passed by the House in October, would allow companies to make more favorable interest rate assumptions for the next two years while a panel works on broad changes to the pension funding rules. 
 Two other bills, recently passed by different Senate committees, would extend the interest rate change beyond two years, and one of them would also suspend a measure intended to punish companies that let their pension plans become severely underfunded. If Congress does not act before a stopgap measure expires at the end of the year, companies will be forced to make large mandatory contributions.
 Companies generally contend that the funding requirements are out of step with the current financial environment. CNF has not filed a response to the retirees' suit, and a spokeswoman said the company could not comment on the dispute. 
According to a rule of thumb used by actuaries, though, every year's difference between the company's projection and the age at which the employees actually retired might have understated benefits by about $15 million.
 "There are ways companies can kind of game the system, to contribute a lot less money than is realistic," said Jeremy I. Bulow, a professor of economics at Stanford University's graduate school of business. Essentially, he said, they are trying to get a loan from the government agency that insures pensions, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or from their employees. "That's what they're trying to do, and it's very bad news," he said.
 To be sure, the world of actuarial science is not the wild, wild West. Companies have been caught gaming pension assumptions in the past and as a result some assumptions are now regulated. Interest rate assumptions are especially powerful in pension calculations, and the most important ones are today a matter of statute -- the same statute Congress is now being asked to modify.
 Assumptions about employee life spans are also regulated today, after General Motors was found in 1994 to be assuming its workers would die younger than Ford's. Workers who die young will collect smaller total pensions, reducing the corporate contributions. Today, all companies are supposed to use a standard mortality table, though some companies are lobbying Congress for more leeway there as well.
 For other assumptions -- about pay increases, staff turnover, marital status, retirement ages and other factors -- there are no hard and fast rules. The law says only that assumptions must be reasonable; that term can mean different things to different people.
 US Airways and AMR's American Airlines, for instance, have found it reasonable in recent years to assume that their pilots will retire when they turn 60, because the Federal Aviation Administration grounds commercial pilots at that age.
 "Pilots enjoy flying and typically it's an avocation in addition to being a job," an American Airlines spokesman said. "A lot of pilots would even work past 60 if they could."
 After US Airways' pension plan for its pilots failed this year, however, the government looked at the age when they were actually retiring and found that lately, more than half have been retiring well before their 60th birthday. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is arguing in bankruptcy court that the airline should have assumed that the pilots would retire, on average, at 56. The agency, an unsecured creditor, is in court seeking a portion of the reorganized airline's stock to help cover its cost of paying the pilots' benefits.
 Because the government insures pensions only up to certain limits, the US Airways pilots will lose, in total, about $1.6 billion in anticipated benefits, according to the pension agency.
 Documents in the US Airways case also show how powerfully a pension plan can be affected by an assumption that seems only slightly off the mark. An analysis supplied by US Airways' actuary, Towers Perrin, suggests that when the airline assumed its pilots would retire four years later than they really did, it shrank the amount it appeared to owe them by about $385 million. That, in turn, meant it contributed less to the plan.
 "In every dimension that was possible, they made the most aggressive actuarial assumptions they could," Mr. Bulow said in an interview. He submitted testimony on behalf of the government in the US Airways case.
 Towers Perrin declined to comment on its retirement-age assumptions, citing its policy not to discuss matters before the courts. US Airways, in court documents, stands by its assumption that pilots will retire at 60 in the future. It notes that the defunct pension plan has been replaced by a benefits package that will reward pilots who keep working as long as possible.
 The airline also argues that the government is forcing it to make an inappropriate assumption about interest rates in its calculations, in an effort to grab a larger portion of its stock. The court is expected to resolve the dispute soon.
 Retirement age was also a factor in the costly demise of Bethlehem Steel's pension plan. Bethlehem's actuary, Aon Consulting, assumed the work force would retire at age 62, even though the company offered pensions to much younger workers, as long as they had 30 years of service. Other actuaries said that assumption was highly questionable, and that it was an important factor in the Bethlehem plan's record $3.7 billion shortfall when it failed.
 A spokesman for Aon said the firm could not comment on a client's affairs. Bethlehem itself has been liquidated. The government estimates that Bethlehem's work force has lost, over all, about $400 million in promised benefits.
 At CNF, the pension troubles grew out of the freight company's decision, in 1996, to spin off its unprofitable Consolidated Freightways unit. Consolidated, a unionized long-haul trucking business, was losing money in the mid-1990's, dragging down the parent company's performance. CNF was meanwhile building up a separate nonunion trucking business that was profitable. By 1996 the two divisions were competing head to head in some markets.
 When it spun off Consolidated, CNF had to split its pension fund and put some of the money into a new fund for the departing work force. Such transactions are regulated; companies must certify that they are transferring enough money to cover departing workers' benefits.
 Mr. Bowden and his fellow retirees said that when CNF calculated their benefits, it assumed that most of them would retire at 64. But many Consolidated managers retired in their late 50's, they say, to take advantage of generous early retirement benefits the company offered to people whose age, plus years of service, added up to 85.
 Steven M. Tindall, the retirees' lawyer, said that by using a higher retirement age in its calculations, CNF was able to put less money into the spun-off pension plan.
 "We think this is a way the company saved some money," said Mr. Tindall, a partner in the law firm of Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein in San Francisco.
 He and the retirees also said that CNF used an inflated interest rate in its calculations, further reducing the amount it put into their pension fund. Born weak, the new pension fund was then underfed each year, they believe, because CNF continued to use inappropriate assumptions.
 Consolidated's retired managers, like Mr. Bowden, said they had no idea this was happening until it was too late. They said they were never even told the pension fund had been separated from CNF, much less that it was withering away.
 Chester Madison, a group operations manager for Consolidated, said that just before he retired, in August 2002, he asked about the pension plan and was told it was "fully funded." Two weeks later, Consolidated filed for bankruptcy. Four months after that, he and the others began receiving letters saying the plan had failed. It had less than half the assets needed to pay their benefits.
 "You feel betrayed," said Mr. Madison, whose monthly pension check has been reduced to about $1,700 from $4,100. He has been looking for a job to make up the difference. "Not too many people are going to hire you when you're 58 years old," he said.
Even Consolidated's retired president, Thomas A. Paulsen, was surprised. At age 59, with 36 years of service, he had earned a pension of $9,755 a month. When the plan failed, his check was reduced to $1,876. He believes CNF spun off Consolidated with insufficient resources, to "send the old dog out to die."
 Employees at all levels are supposed to get basic information about their pension plans once a year, but it is difficult, if not impossible, to check the validity of the underlying assumptions. Companies are not required to disclose current, detailed information about their pension plans. They do list three actuarial assumptions in the footnotes of their annual reports, but retirement age is not among them.
 More details about pension plans are on file at the Labor Department, but those records are generally at least two years out of date. And even if an employee goes to the trouble of getting the numbers, they are difficult to decode.
 Mr. Bowden recalled that CNF hired him in 1967, when the company was expanding rapidly and hiring lots of baby boomers. They were entitled to early retirement, and the plan failed just as they were claiming it. The government's pension insurance has limits to begin with, but those limits are reduced even more for those who retire before age 65.
 "There's hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, of people, who believe that the P.B.G.C. will guarantee their pensions, and it's not the case at all," said Robert Newell, a retired Consolidated vice president. His monthly pension has been reduced to $2,025 from $5,357.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about the leeway that companies have in financing their pension funds referred incompletely to the response by CNF Inc., a freight and logistics company, to a lawsuit filed by a group of retirees who had worked for the company and for Consolidated Freightways, a division that was spun off. While CNF declined to discuss the suit for the article, it did file a motion to dismiss the case on Sept. 22. The motion said that CNF had no fiduciary duty to the retirees or their pension fund after the spinoff.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert M. Bowden with his crab traps in Oregon. His pension has been reduced to $24,000 from $48,000. (Photo by Greg Wahl-Stephens for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Overly Optimistic?"When CNF spun off its Consolidated Freightways unit in 1996, it calculated Consolidated's pension fund liabilities using assumptions that tended to make the benefits owed look smaller. Over the years, those assumptions did not change substantially. Early this year, the pension fund collapsed and was taken over by the government, which has estimated that the fund's burden is far higher than the company had calculated. Graph tracks assets and benefits owed from 1996 through 2003. CNF generally assumed workers would retire at 64 and used an 8.5 percent interest rate for calculations. Even as the assets shrank, no cash was added. 2003Government says a 4.7 percent rate is appropriate now and retirees say the age assumption should have been lower. 1996*2000+2001+ *CNF used a 7.1 percent rate.+CNF lowered retirement age to 62. (Sources by Court filings; pension plan annual reports filed with the Labor Department)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); TRUCKING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); LEGISLATION (67%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ORGANIZED LABOR 

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CNF INC 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: BOWDEN, ROBERT M; WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES; 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



264 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Word on Nuclear Gains by North Korea and Iran 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD; David E. Sanger reported for this article from Washington and William J. Broad from New York. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
Two intelligence reports issued in recent days find that North Korea and Iran have made advances on a variety of technologies necessary to build nuclear weapons that surprised many nuclear experts and Western intelligence officials.
 Overall, the reports support the consensus view that North Korea is far ahead of Iran in the production of actual weapons and poses the most urgent proliferation problems for the Bush administration. 
 Yet Iran's program turns out to have been even broader and deeper than American intelligence agencies suspected. A 30-page confidential report issued by the International Atomic Energy Agency and sent to 20 governments on Monday describes a program that reached back at least 18 years and involved extremely complex technologies, including an exotic program to use lasers to enrich uranium. 
In recent weeks, President Bush has declared that his administration is making great progress in its diplomatic effort to disarm both countries, putting together coalitions of neighboring countries to pressure the two surviving governments of what he famously called the "Axis of Evil." 
But the essence of the Central Intelligence Agency report about North Korea is that that country is speeding up its weapons production. And Iran's decision to allow the international agency into facilities that were previously closed to inspectors may, diplomats said, blunt Mr. Bush's effort to seek some kind of sanctions in the United Nations, leaving Iran with an advanced nuclear infrastructure that could be restarted at a moment's notice. 
Taken together, the reports show that Iran and North Korea have each dabbled in separating plutonium -- one path to a bomb -- and have each set up centrifuges to enrich uranium. The difference, as the C.I.A. told Congress, is that North Korea has fully mastered the complexities of detonating a bomb, perhaps with the help of some of its nuclear suppliers like Pakistan. There is no evidence that Iran has made that much headway.
"The Iranians did a lot better at this than Saddam Hussein did," one administration official said. "But not as well as Kim Jong Il," he added, referring to the North Korean leader.
The international agency's report is full of examples showing that Iran fooled the global nuclear watchdog for years. It refers to "limited and reactive" cooperation with inspectors and "changing and contradictory" stories. Despite that history of deception, though, the international agency insisted that there was no evidence of a current weapons project in Iran. That conclusion left many experts agape.
"It's dumbfounding that the I.A.E.A., after saying that Iran for 18 years had a secret effort to enrich uranium and separate plutonium, would turn around and say there was no evidence of a nuclear weapons program," said Thomas B. Cochran, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington, a private group that tracks nuclear arms. "If that's not evidence, I don't know what is."
A federal intelligence official echoed that assessment, saying, "It's obvious that this is not an atoms for peace program."
But the international agency's report, while detailed, found no actual weapons of the kind that North Korea boasts about.
Paul Leventhal, president of the Nuclear Control Institute, a private group based in Washington, argued that the agency's job of simultaneously promoting and regulating nuclear power had blinded it to Tehran's ambitions. "Iran is an example," he said, "of what happens when you let the rhetoric of atoms for peace take precedence over the hard realities of a nation that supports terrorism going nuclear."
Still, American officials said the 30-page document from the international inspectors included details missing from American intelligence reports. "They may have suspected it," said David Albright, head of the Institute for Science and International Security, an arms control group in Washington. "But a lot of this stuff would not have been known to the U.S. government."
Private and federal experts said the most stunning revelation was how Tehran had labored in secret for 18 years to enrich uranium, a main fuel of nuclear arms. Its effort focused on developing centrifuges, a standard method in which fast spinning concentrates U-235, the uranium isotope used in making bombs.
The report said that Tehran acknowledged building two centrifuge plants and finishing a third site, the Kalaye Electric Company, which made centrifuge parts and did extensive centrifuge testing and experimental purification of uranium. Inspectors were blocked from entering the electric company's facilities earlier this year; they now know that behind a false wall of boxes were scores of centrifuges, in what appeared to be a pilot program to produce weapon-grade uranium.
That is exactly the kind of program that North Korea is also believed to be involved in as an alternative to the country's main nuclear weapons development program. The project was discovered a few years ago by South Korean intelligence officials, though its exact location is still a mystery. Inspectors were thrown outof North Korea on Dec. 31.
While the North Koreans have clearly made more progress, intelligence officials say, the international agency's report indicates that the Iranians have been more technologically daring than most experts expected. 
The report reveals that for 12 years Iran developed a program to use lasers to purify uranium. In theory, the exotic technique can be highly efficient in producing enriched uranium. But no country, including the United States, has found a way to make it economical in the production of fuel for commercial nuclear reactors. It is so expensive that experts assume its only usefulness would be for a military program where costs are no obstacle.
"The technology and physics are not easy," said Steve Fetter, a physicist at the University of Maryland. "It's probably the most difficult of all the enrichment techniques to master."
The international agency's report said that three years ago Iran established a pilot plant for laser enrichment and used it between October 2002 and January of this year to conduct experiments on natural uranium. The Iranian authorities said the pilot plant was disassembled in May. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LASERS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRIFUGES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (64%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; LASER (LIGHT AMPLIFICATION BY STIMULATED EMISSION OF RADIATION); URANIUM; PLUTONIUM; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%) SANGER, DAVID E; BROAD, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) NORTH KOREA; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



265 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Preserving History 

 BODY:
Tucked inside federal transportation law is a small phrase that has done a fairly heroic job of protecting some of the nation's most important historic areas for almost 40 years. These few words in the 1966 Department of Transportation Act say that a federal highway project cannot destroy any historic area if there is a "prudent and feasible alternative." These words have blocked, for example, highways from paving parts of the French Quarter in New Orleans and Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco. 
 But as Congress begins negotiating a new transportation bill, the Bush administration and the highway lobby are trying to weaken those protections in the name of "streamlining" the process of building the nation's roads. 
 Instead of acting as a powerful deterrent against building roads through national treasures, the administration's proposal would rely on transportation agencies to decide what is historic. The agencies would then consult with communities over a site's importance. That sounds a lot like the old-fashioned way of building an interstate highway -- the "decide, announce and defend method." Consultation with property owners or communities would end up being a weak defense against the big bulldozers run by the highway crowd.
Beyond the obvious need to preserve historic sites for local communities, saving historic treasures can also help economic rebirth. Retaining a community's local color keeps one shopping mall from looking the same as the next. In central Georgia, for example, residents of Macon have been fighting a plan to put a road through the ancient Indian mounds called the Ocmulgee Old Fields. The fields, part of the Muscogee, or Creek, heritage, deserve to be part of the Ocmulgee National Monument near Macon. If the law is changed, it is not clear that those who want preservation will have an important voice in the decision.
Irritated motorists caught in traffic jams may think the answer is more roads, and they certainly have friends in Congress. But those same motorists, if asked, could hardly want the roads of the future to destroy what is left of their nation's past. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION LAW (91%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HISTORIC SITES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (67%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MACON, GA, USA (67%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



266 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Malnutrition Long Noticed In Youth, 19 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; Jason George contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Nov. 11 

 BODY:
The 19-year-old who was found severely malnourished last month at a home where he was raised by adoptive parents had been hospitalized at age 7, before he was placed in foster care, for signs of malnutrition and for consuming large amounts of alcohol and prescription medication, according to his state child-welfare case file.
 The teenager, Bruce Jackson, and three adopted brothers were removed from the home in nearby Collingswood when child welfare workers discovered they were on the verge of starvation. The shocking condition of the children -- Bruce weighed just 45 pounds -- has drawn national attention to New Jersey's troubled child welfare system through intensive news media coverage. It has also led to criminal child-abuse charges against the adoptive parents. 
 Now, however, as medical officials try to nurse Bruce and his brothers back to health, his biological mother has stepped forward to ask that he be returned to her custody. Joanne Principal, 40, said that she was watching a television newscast last week when she saw a photo of Bruce and recognized him as her son, whom she had not seen since he was put into foster care at age 7 in 1991.
Ms. Principal said that she has become a religious person in the years since she and her son were separated, and is now capable of giving him the care he needs.
"When I saw him looking like that on TV, I was angry and upset and confused," she said on Tuesday in the living room of her home in Camden, where she lives with her three daughters and her boyfriend. "Why would they treat him like that? I know what he needs. And this is like a second chance for us to be together."
Child welfare experts say such a reunion is highly unlikely. For one thing, at age 19, Bruce is legally emancipated and free to live where he wants. The thick file on the case, compiled by the state's Division of Youth and Family Services, also indicates that his mistreatment began long before he ended up in the Collingswood foster home of Vanessa and Raymond Jackson.
Ms. Principal said on Tuesday that she had lost custody of the boy because her husband, who she said had been abusive, "made me look neglectful." She insisted that she never relinquished her parental rights. 
But state records show that as early as age 7 the boy exhibited signs of malnutrition. When Bruce was hospitalized at that age, his father also told child welfare workers that the boy had taken prescription medication from his mother's home and had somehow gotten hold of a bottle of Scotch and drank much of it.
State records also indicate that Ms. Principal gave up custody of Bruce before his 12th birthday, a move that allowed the Jacksons to legally adopt him in 1996. The Jacksons have mounted an aggressive campaign to regain custody of the four children, encouraging relatives, friends and the pastor of their church to vouch for them and insisting that the children's gaunt appearance was caused by fetal alcohol syndrome and other medical problems.
Mr. and Mrs. Jackson taped a brief interview last week with Dan Rather that is scheduled to be seen tonight on "60 Minutes II." The segment contains clips from Jackson family home movies, one of which shows Bruce puffing out his cheeks and swallowing, which the Jacksons say is a sign of his regurgitating his food. But Ms. Principal said that the boy did not have fetal alcohol syndrome and that she had not abused drugs or alcohol during her pregnancy. She also said that there was no indication that Bruce had ever suffered from an eating disorder.
"He was just a happy, healthy kid," she said, pushing away a tear.
Ms. Principal, her daughters and her boyfriend, Joseph Lewis Jr., live in a dilapidated two-bedroom home in a rundown neighborhood with a dog and eight puppies. Family members insisted they could provide a safe, happy home for Bruce.
"We'll make it so he never wants to leave," said Ms. Principal's daughter Tina, 14, as she chased a puppy over a mound of trash in the living room, around two piles of dog droppings and into a three-foot heap of laundry on the kitchen floor.
Mr. Lewis said that even though he and Ms. Principal were both unemployed, they were not worried about the financial burden of caring for Bruce because his case has already brought an outpouring of donations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce Jackson (pg. B1); Joanne Principal, the biological mother of Bruce Jackson, and her youngest daughter, Tameka, 7, in their home in Camden, N.J. (Photo by Annie McCormick for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALNUTRITION (92%); FOSTER CARE (91%); ADOPTION (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STARVATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); FAMILY SERVICES (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



267 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Budget, Too, Helps Unsettle Colombia 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
This strategically situated Andean country, with Latin America's fifth-largest economy, had for years posted solid economic growth while controlling its foreign debt. No matter its grinding civil conflict, Colombia boasted sound fiscal management that stood in contrast to its reputation as chaotic and violent.
 But heavy government spending in recent years, some of it for a military buildup encouraged by American officials, has led to serious economic problems that are worrying Wall Street and Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe. The economic difficulties, particularly a burdensome public debt, threaten one of Latin America's few economic bright spots. 
 The president, an archconservative who is widely popular here for waging war on Marxist rebels, lost a national referendum last month on measures that would have given him more control over state spending, cutting $7 billion in seven years.
 Now, faced with new political realities after the vote, Mr. Uribe is scrambling to find ways to deal with a troublesome budget deficit and a huge public sector debt, which rose from 26 percent of gross domestic product in 1995 to more than 50 percent this year, said Rafael de la Fuente, chief Latin American economist for BNP Paribas in New York. 
 Colombia's public sector debt -- both foreign and domestic -- now tops $40 billion, with the cost of debt servicing alone expected to reach $9.4 billion next year. To come up with the $1.1 billion in savings Mr. Uribe expected next year had the referendum passed, he is proposing legislation that will cut state spending sharply and, by 2004, lead to a series of new taxes. 
 "If something urgent and broad is not done, we could be on the edge of the abyss in months," said Semana, Colombia's leading newsweekly. The solution is the "famous Plan B," said Semana, what the magazine calls "a draconian tax reform that will inevitably step on toes and leave everyone unhappy."
 The new challenge comes as Mr. Uribe is facing the toughest patch of his 15 months in office. Though most polls find that he is still hugely popular, with approval ratings topping 70 percent, he is smarting over the defeat of his political and fiscal reform package.
 Faced with an intense lobbying effort against the measures by unions and left-leaning politicians, Mr. Uribe's administration failed to muster the required 6.3 million voters to approve the referendum. The 15-point plan would have given the president the ability to freeze spending for two years, as well as other cost-cutting powers.
 But instead of issuing the president a blank check, political analysts said, Colombians sent a tough message: Mr. Uribe would be able to obtain the spending controls he is looking for only by forging alliances with politicians, and preparing for bruising battles in Congress.
 "He's got to figure out how he's going to really build a governing coalition," said Michael Shifter, a senior analyst at the Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue who frequently meets with Colombian officials. "He didn't really have to worry about that until now."
 After the defeat, Mr. Uribe's interior and justice minister, Fernando Londono, who had difficult relations with Congress, resigned. On Friday, the president named Sabas Pretelt, the well-liked, soft-spoken director of the National Federation of Retailers, to replaceMr. Londono, a crucial appointment since he will be the administration's liaison with Congress. 
 Still, passage of the bill is far from assured, with many members of Congress accusing Mr. Uribe of trying to ram through a watered-down version of the referendum.
 "It is the same as the referendum," Gustavo Petro, a left-leaning congressman, said of Mr. Uribe's new strategy, "a freezing of pensions and salaries and a cut in social spending." 
 With the bill Mr. Uribe has proposed to Congress, which faces a deadline for approval within the next month, he is trying to meet deficit-cutting targets set under a $2.1 billion standby loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Colombia needs to maintain its budget deficit at 2.8 percent of gross domestic product this year, and will have to cut spending to achieve a 2.5 percent deficit next year. 
 Colombia's financial situation has its bright side. 
 Economists say the economy could expand by more than 3 percent next year. Investment has also been up, growing 33 percent in the first quarter this year, while unemployment has dropped to 13.9 percent. The United States is considering starting talks that could lead to a bilateral free-trade deal. 
 Much of the improvement, economists say, comes from confidence in Mr. Uribe and his plan to bring security to this vast country, twice the size of France, which has been largely controlled by various armed groups.
 "The economy has certainly grown more than the market had expected, and I think to a large extent that can be attributed to the Uribe effect," said Mr. de la Fuente, the BNP Paribas economist. "The Uribe effect basically boils down to the fact that businessmen, consumers and the population as a whole have a new sense of optimism, largely on account of the government's dealing with the guerrillas."
 Colombia, as well as its neighbors in Latin America, will probably also benefit from the robust growth in the United States economy, which expanded 7.2 percent in the third quarter. That expansion is expected to translate into an increase in exports in job-generating sectors, like Colombia's large textile industry.
 But analysts also say that the country's public sector debt is spiking to dangerous levels. For decades, Colombia managed to control its public debt, unlike several of its neighbors.
Then, public spending shot up with a constitutionally mandated decentralization program in the 1990's. Military spending also rose markedly as Mr. Uribe's government embarked on a buildup that has added 45,000 new soldiers and policemen over the last year. 
 The president recently said that unless his tax bill passed Congress, the country could face an economic collapse like Argentina's in 2002. Most economists say that Mr. Uribe was exaggerating to make his point.
 But the situation remains worrisome to the Bush administration, which had been hoping that an upturn in Colombia would permit the country to foot more of its own security expenses. The United States has already spent close to $2.5 billion since 2000 in Colombia, largely on military-related efforts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, left, on the day of a vote last month to give him greater control of spending. The proposal failed. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONTUSIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); APPROVALS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX REFORM (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (55%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (90%) FORERO, JUAN; URIBE, ALVARO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (98%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



268 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The euro increased after a German industry report showed that investor confidence climbed to the highest in 16 months. In New York, the euro settled at $1.1509, up from $1.1496 on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since May 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



269 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Shares Fall, Led by Selling Of Some Technology Issues

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, led by Scientific-Atlanta and EchoStar Communications, as investors shifted cash out of the technology shares that have led the market's surge this year.
 "The economically sensitive stocks have been doing very well as a result of the resurgence," said Philip Orlando, who helps oversee $200 billion at Federated Investors in New York. "Investors are saying, 'let me lock in these profits and rotate them into stocks that have underperformed."' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 0.54 point, or less than 0.1 percent, to 1,046.57, for its fifth drop in six days. Computer-related shares accounted for almost two-thirds of the decline. The Dow Jones industrial average shed 18.74 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,737.79, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 10.89 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,930.75.
 Eight stocks fell for every five that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.17 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 12 percent below average for the last three months.
 Health care, energy and consumer-staple shares -- which have lagged during this year's rally -- performed the best in the S.&P. 500 as technology shares slumped.
 The S.&P. 500's information technology index has climbed 42 percent in 2003, the best performance amongthe S.&P. 500's 10 industry groups. An index of health care companies has gained 3.5 percent, the second-worst performance, while energy shares have returned 6.6 percent and the consumer staples are up 6.9 percent. Telecommunications services stocks are the index's worst performer, down 6.6 percent.
 Benchmark indexes have been falling even as recent economic reports exceeded forecasts. Gross domestic product, or the value of all goods and services, expanded at 7.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the fastest pace in almost two decades. The economy added twice as many jobs as expected last month.
 Scientific-Atlanta, the maker of set-top boxes for cable television, fell 61 cents, to $28.34. Cablevision Systems, one of Scientific-Atlanta's two biggest customers, said its third-quarter net loss widened to 36 cents a share. It also found additional expenses that were improperly recorded and will restate 2003 results.
 EchoStar shed $4.75, to $32.05. The company, the operator of satellite television, gained 285,000 customers in the third quarter; analysts had expected 300,000.
 Andrew, a maker of cable-networking gear, fell 56 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $12.28, for the steepest drop in the S.&P. 500.
 Exxon Mobil added 29 cents, to $36.05, to lead the gain among energy shares. Analysts' forecasts for Exxon's production growth are too low, a Banc of America Securities analyst, Tyler Dann, said. He predicted production would increase 5 percent in 2004, above the company's forecast of 3 percent. Arjun Murti, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs, raised his rating on Exxon to outperform from in line.
 Among other stocks that rose in the S.&P. 500, Pfizer rose 32 cents, to $31.80, and PepsiCo climbed 52 cents, to $47.93.
 The bond market was closed in observance of Veterans Day.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks securities yesterday and one month ago for both 3-6 months and 2-30 years maturity. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (71%); BROADBAND (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); VETERANS DAY (US) 

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (69%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (69%); FII (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



270 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
A Former NavyBase Takes On a New Life

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: GLENVIEW, Ill., Nov. 5 

 BODY:
In 1993, this North Shore suburb of Chicago got the news that the naval air base occupying 1.5 square miles in the middle of its village -- 15 percent of its area -- would be closing. At the time, the base had 110 buildings and 300 acres of runways and aprons, and residents had to drive around it to get from one part of town to another.
 A decade later, redevelopment of some of the other military installations that closed in the aftermath of the cold war is proceeding at a sluggish pace. Last month, for example, the City Council in Tustin, Calif., selected a master planner for the largest parcel of its shuttered Marine base, which was on the 1991 closings list.
 But this village has moved much faster. Taking on the role of master planner, it has transformed the Glenview Naval Air Station into the Glen, a community built almost entirely from scratch. The runways have been demolished, all but three of the original buildings have been torn down, and the flat prairie landscape is now dotted with hundreds of houses, red-brick stores and office buildings, all linked to the rest of Glenview (population 42,000) by newly built roads. 
 Now home to 2,900 residents (out of a projected 4,000), many of them young families from Chicago, the Glen also has more than 420,000 square feet of office space; four new shopping areas, including a $250 million, 470,000-square-foot unenclosed retail and entertainment center that opened last month; a 100,000-square-foot shopping center with neighborhood stores like a dry cleaner and day spa developed by the owners of its 63,000-square-foot anchor, a Dominick's supermarket; a big-box center with a 150,000-square-foot Costco and a 102,000-square-foot Home Depot Neighborhood Store; a new train station along the Metra commuter line; and a 140-acre park with two golf courses and an artificial lake.
 George R. Schlossberg, the general counsel of the National Association of Installation Developers, a nonprofit organization that serves as a clearinghouse for information about base closings, said that the Glen rose at an extraordinary pace. "It's been very fast, compared to what has gone on in other closures," said Mr. Schlossberg, who helped Glenview negotiate with the Navy.
 Glenview officials acknowledge that their relatively homogeneous village, with a median household income of $81,000, has many advantages over other communities with obsolete military bases. It has a healthy tax base and a population so motivated that dozens of residents toured Chicago suburbs by bus so that they could help develop design standards, said Richard P. Shields, a former managing director of Mesirow Stein Real Estate, the financial adviser to the project. Some 180 public meetings were held in 1994 and 1995, said Paul T. McCarthy, the village manager for the last 22 years.
 For some communities, the closing of a base has meant a devastating loss of jobs, but Glenview, which is 11 miles from O'Hare International Airport, had in recent years operated as a training center for reserve officers, with a civilian staff of fewer than 300. Its closing had only minimal impact on businesses in the surrounding area, officials said.
 Unlike communities on later base closing lists, Glenview got most of the air station property at no charge and also benefited from the absence of debt limits for Illinois municipalities, Mr. McCarthy said. Glenview, whose bonds get the top Aaa rating from Moody's Investors Service, has spent $175 million on infrastructure, including demolition of runways and new roads, said Donald K. Owen, Glenview's economic redevelopment director. 
 In addition, the village has paid $52 million in overhead for the project and $70 million in interest and has given more than $83 million in incentives, mainly through tax-increment financing, said Mr. Owen, a former Navy officer, who served as the base's transition coordinator from 1993 to 1995. He said the village had earned nearly $200 million from land sales.
 Glenview got some other lucky breaks. In 1971, the Navy allowed Glenview to annex the base property so that some subdivisions to the west could become part of the village. That meant that Glenview did not have to consult neighboring Northbrook, which might have had a different agenda for the base. Then, too, the air base was "one of the cleaner sites we've ever come across," and did not need the extensive rehabilitation that slows down redevelopment of many other bases, Mr. Schlossberg said.
 Mr. McCarthy said the base closing occurred just as "lifestyle centers," with shops, movie theaters and restaurants facing a pedestrian street, were coming into vogue. Glenview is ringed by about a dozen regional shopping centers, but the new Glen Town Center is designed to appeal to North Shore residents who prefer to shop in places like downtown Evanston, said Morgan Dene Oliver, the chief executive of the developer, Oliver McMillan, a company based in San Diego that specializes in mixed-use projects. Above the stores are 182 apartments with average rents of about $2,000.
 One of the village's priorities was saving Hangar 1, a 1929 brick structure that was first used as an administrative building at Curtiss-Reynolds Airport, which closed in 1937 after the Navy took over the site. Though about 70 percent of the 188,000-square-foot building was preserved, adding about $8 million to the shopping center's cost, only the space occupied by the Book Market at Hangar 1 is entirely original, Mr. Oliver said. 
 The other anchor stores -- an 80,000-square-foot Galyan's, a sporting goods store; a cosmetics retailer; and a 160,000-square foot Van Maur, a chain department store based in Davenport, Iowa -- have facades that were designed to resemble hangar doors. Persuading national tenants to deviate from their customary design format required "lots of negotiation," Mr. Oliver said.
 Only partly open, the shopping center is about 86 percent leased, said Mr. Owen, the Glenview economic redevelopment director. But the office park, known as Prairie Glen, is taking longer to attract tenants, with about 43 acres out of 87 remaining undeveloped. A speculative 116,000-square-foot office building at 2700 Patriot Boulevard, completed last year by Catellus of San Francisco, the developer of the office park, is only 55 percent occupied. 
 The office park faces several hurdles, including a suburban office vacancy rate of about 20 percent and the fact that taxes in neighboring Lake County are lower than they are in Cook County, said Kevin D. Matzke, a senior vice president at Catellus. Other real estate specialists point out that the nearest highway is two miles away.
 "The biggest challenge to our marketing efforts from Day 1," Mr. Matzke said, "was that there was nothing there. Everybody we were able to bring into the park had to have a little imagination." One of those companies was Anixter, a distributor of cable materials, which moved its headquarters from nearby Skokie into a two-story, 167,000-square-foot building in the office park after the village agreed to a $2 million incentive.
 Not everybody in Glenview is happy with the development. Sandy Hausman, the editor of Glenview Watch, an online community newsletter, complains about the high cost of housing -- prices begin at about $375,000, village officials said. "This was federally owned property, and it ended up being given to the village of Glenview," she said, "and some social obligations were lost in the process. The minute our trustees became developers, they were no longer trustees. They were compromised."
 But Mr. McCarthy said aside from a planned 158 units of low-cost housing for the elderly, village residents were more concerned about maintaining the high bond rating by making the project financially successful than they were about building below-market-rate housing. 
 The town center still poses a big risk for Glenview because it is not on a major highway and was unable to lure some of the better-known retailers, said Mary Bak, the village's director of development. "My kids are still looking for the Gap store," she said.
 One measure of the base redevelopment's success is still to come, Mr. Owen said. "For marketing purposes," he said, "we named it the Glen. But that name over time will go away, and this will be just another area of Glenview. People will say, 'I'm on Patriot Boulevard in Glenview."'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul T. McCarthy, left, the Glenview, Ill., manager, and Donald K. Owen, economic redevelopment director, at the former air station. (Photo by Lloyd DeGrane for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through September. Graph tracks sales, starts and completions from 2000-2003. (Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division) Map of Illinois highlighting the site of The Glen: The Glen continues to rise where a naval air station once stood. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); COLD WAR (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAKES (73%); CITIES (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); FAMILY (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); TRENDS (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (66%); LAWYERS (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; GLENVIEW NAVAL AIR STATION (ILL) (DEFUNCT); HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

COMPANY: MESIROW STEIN REAL ESTATE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; MCCARTHY, PAUL T; OWEN, DONALD K 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) GLENVIEW (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



271 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET --New Jersey; 
Drug Companies Underpin the Office Market

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
When the telecommunications industry suddenly shrank and left New Jersey's office real estate market reeling several years ago, the expanding pharmaceutical industry, brokers fondly recall, stepped in and played hero.
 Pharmaceuticals could not save the office market from the effects of the long recession that followed, but brokers are now saying that they continue to pump a little life into a sluggish market. Despite takeovers, mergers, consolidations and generally weaker profits this year, companies like Pfizer, Bristol-Meyers Squibb, Merck, Novartis, Schering-Plough and Wyeth remain a strong presence in the New Jersey, and continue to generate transactions, brokers and builders attest. 
 "Let me put it this way," said Peter Eppie, executive vice president of SJP Properties, based in Parsippany. "Without pharmaceuticals, the situation would be even bleaker." 
 The overall office vacancy rate for northern New Jersey has been stuck at 19.1 percent for two quarters and it is 21.8 in central New Jersey. In pockets of Somerset County, where both AT&T and Lucent Technologies have vacated huge spaces, it hovers at 40 percent, according to various reports.
 Several years ago, state development officials began actively recruiting more pharmaceutical and related business to add to the state's already high concentration of such companies, promoting New Jersey as "the nation's medicine chest." 
 A small, but steady increase in biotechnology labs along the "research and development corridor," from Princeton to Newark, has been the result, state authorities said. Brokers report that several generic drug makers are moving to New Jersey -- and more are considering it -- and they say these developments will help stabilize the office market.
 But the most active players in the state's real estate market remain the biggest drug companies -- like the New York-based Pfizer, which acquired Pharmacia last year and Warner-Lambert in 2000. Both Pharmacia and Warner-Lambert are based in New Jersey. 
 Pfizer took subleases on two Class A spaces in Parsippany within the last few months -- 154,000 square feet at 5 Woodhollow Drive, and 112,000 at SJP's Morris Corporate Center IV building -- while pondering general realignment of its space in light of its acquisitions.
 Pfizer also made a deal recently with the pharmaceutical software company Dendrite International, which will lease 233,000 square feet of space the drug company had acquired in Bedminster as part of the Pharmacia takeover. Dendrite sublet the space to consolidate its operations from several sites in New Jersey. "That was the single largest deal in the Route 78-Route 278 area in the past year," said John K. Cunningham of GVA Williams-New Jersey, a broker involved in the transaction. Mr. Cunningham said Dendrite had signed a 12-year sublease and would begin moving into the Somerset Financial Center early next year.
 Pfizer is also marketing the 2.7-million-square-foot former AT&T headquarters in Basking Ridge, vacated two years ago by the telecommunications company and acquired by Pharmacia just before Pharmacia was itself acquired.
 "Finding the tenant for the AT&T building will be finding the needle in the haystack," said James H. Postell, a principal with the Trammell Crow Company. Mr. Postell said state brokers were told last month that Pfizer had decided it could not make sensible use of the opulent -- but outmoded -- AT&T building. 
 "Generally, however, the large pharmaceutical companies' reconfiguring of space is good for the market," Mr. Postell said, adding, "Compared to other sectors, pharmaceuticals are ahead of the curve in being attuned to market signals that will affect their industry," and are making earlier space adjustments.
 "The big boys of the pharmaceutical industry are consolidating, rather than expanding, when you look at the big picture," Mr. Eppie of SJP said. "But they still need space in strategic locations." 
 Pfizer, which has 4,245 employees in New Jersey out of a total work force of 141,000, will use the Morris Corporate Center space as a regional sales office.
 David Simson, the president of GVA Williams-New Jersey, which represented Pfizer in the two Parsippany subleases, said Pfizer needed the Woodhollow Road site as swing space while it considered plans for Warner-Lambert's former offices in Morris Plains. 
 Meanwhile, smaller and generic drug companies are increasingly active, said two Newmark brokers, Doug Twyman and Wayne Kasbar, who recently handled a lease of 17,000 square feet in Bridgewater for Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, based in India. Biovail, a Canadian concern, recently took 160,000 square feet in Bridgewater, and Geneva Pharmaceuticals, a Novartis subsidiary, took two offices in Princeton with 40,000 and 16,000 square feet. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Eppie, left, of SJP Properties, and David Simson of GVA Williams-New Jersey at the Morris Corporate Center IV building. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); MERGERS (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (73%); SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%); NOVARTIS AG (90%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (90%); CEGEDIM RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (74%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (69%); PHARMACIA CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC; BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO; MERCK & CO; NOVARTIS AG; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP; WYETH; SJP PROPERTIES; GVA WILLIAMS (CO) 

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); NVS (NYSE) (90%); NOVN (SWX) (90%); BMY (NYSE) (90%); ALU (PAR) (69%); ALU (NYSE) (69%); ALU (BIT) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (74%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (74%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (69%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (53%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE; EPPIE, PETER; SIMSON, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



272 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: New York City Real Estate Heir Is Acquitted of Murder in Texas 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

DATELINE: GALVESTON, Tex., Nov. 11 

 BODY:
Robert A. Durst, the New York multimillionaire who admitted that he had butchered his 71-year-old neighbor's body with a bow saw and dumped the parts into Galveston Bay, was acquitted of the man's murder on Tuesday. Mr. Durst told the jury that despite what happened afterward, the killing itself had been accidental and an act of self-defense.
 For many in the courtroom, it was a surprise ending to a strange trial. When a bailiff read the verdict, in a scene televised live nationally, Mr. Durst, who had faced up to 99 years in prison, looked stunned, his mouth agape as he gazed upward. A tight smile spread across his face. Moments later, he hugged his defense lawyers, softly saying, "Thank you, so much." 
 In a certain sense, the verdict was no more unlikely than anything else heard over six weeks of testimony: a troubled multimillionaire, described by his lawyers as suffering from mild autism, living on the cheap disguised as a woman; the unsolved disappearance of his first wife; the unsolved murder of his confidante in Los Angeles; a secret second marriage; a fatal shooting and a grisly cover-up; a nationwide manhunt that ended with a shoplifting arrest. 
Members of the jury, which deliberated over four days, said at a news conference after the verdict was read that there were holes in Mr. Durst's story, but that ultimately the prosecution had failed to prove that he deliberately murdered his neighbor, Morris Black. "The defense told us a story and stuck to it," said Chris Lovell, a juror. "The D.A. gave us multiple scenarios of what may have happened."
Asked about the defendant, Deborah Warren, another juror, said: "I wouldn't ask him to escort my daughter to her senior prom. Durst isn't the only crazy person in Galveston."
A friend said that Mr. Durst told him in a telephone conversation on Monday night that the best he could hope for was a hung jury.
On the witness stand, Mr. Durst said that in November 2000, he fled New York for Galveston, a city of 57,000 people at the end of Interstate 45, because he learned that Jeanine F. Pirro, the Westchester County district attorney, had reopened an investigation into his first wife's disappearance. He said he had feared she would indict him unfairly to further her own political ambitions. Disguised as a mute woman, Mr. Durst rented an apartment for $300 a month and disappeared among the drifters and homeless wanderers of Galveston.
Mr. Durst testified that he hated the wig he wore and soon abandoned his disguise. Mr. Black, a cantankerous former seaman, lived across the hall. Although Mr. Black frequently got into arguments with strangers and neighbors, Mr. Durst said he and his neighbor became fast friends, watching television together and target shooting. But he said Mr. Black had fired a pistol twice while visiting his apartment, much to his horror.
On Sept. 28, 2001, Mr. Durst said, he returned to his apartment shortly before dawn and found Mr. Black watching television. He said he had raced into the kitchen, where he discovered that his .22-caliber handgun was no longer in its hiding place. He turned to see Mr. Black reaching for the weapon underneath a jacket and swinging toward him, Mr. Durst said. "I was concerned that Morris was going to shoot the gun, most likely at my face," he told the jury.
He testified that they had struggled and the gun had gone off in Mr. Black's face, killing him.
Afraid that no one would believe his story, Mr. Durst testified, he panicked. In a haze of drugs and alcohol, he said, he carved up Mr. Black's body until he was "swimming in blood." He triple-wrapped the body parts in garbage bags and dumped them in the bay, where they were found bobbing in the water. Mr. Black's head has never been found.
Mr. Durst was arrested and charged with murder, but he later jumped bail, fleeing by car to Pennsylvania, where he was captured after taking a Band-Aid, a chicken salad sandwich and a newspaper from a supermarket. He still faces charges of bail-jumping, a felony, and remains in jail. Prosecutors said they did not plan to charge him with abuse of a corpse, a misdemeanor.
None of his friends or family were in the courtroom today. His wife, Debrah Lee Charatan, has avoided Galveston since the trial started in August. His most loyal friends, Stewart and Emily Altman, had returned to their home in Long Island. He has long been estranged from his family, who refused his requests to come to Galveston.
"Thank God," Mrs. Altman said in a telephone interview. "There was no evidence Bob did anything wrong."
Mr. Durst's lawyers, Dick DeGuerin, Mike Ramsey and Chip Lewis, said they were gratified by the verdict. Mr. DeGuerin congratulated the jury for setting aside "what happened after" the shooting and focusing on how Mr. Black had died. As for the dismemberment, he said, "Bob was horrified at some of the things he did."
Kurt Sistrunk, the district attorney in Galveston County, said he was "dismayed, disappointed" by the verdict.
Neither the defense nor the prosecution wanted to ask the jury to consider lesser charges like manslaughter. "This wasn't a case for compromise," Mr. DeGuerin said.
Mr. Sistrunk agreed. "We were looking at all or nothing," he said
Galveston's reputation as the Wall Street of the South faded into history long ago. But Mr. Durst grew up close to the real thing, a member of Manhattan's real estate royalty. He is the oldest son of the late Seymour B. Durst, a real estate developer who built skyscrapers along Third Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas.
Despite having "more money than I could possibly spend," Mr. Durst testified that he had few friends and a mediocre academic record. He said he suffered from bulimia and had been devastated when his mother fell or jumped from the roof of the family's Scarsdale home when he was 7. He acknowledged lying to friends and family members when he told them that he had a Ph.D. in economics from the University of California in Los Angeles.
Mr. Durst reluctantly joined the family business in the 1970's, after marrying Kathleen McCormack, a dental hygienist living in a Durst building. He did not fit in well in real estate society; he flouted convention by belching in public or smoking marijuana at social functions, friends and acquaintances said.
His first brush with the authorities came in 1982, when he walked into a Manhattan police station saying he had not seen his wife, Kathleen, in five days. He said he had dropped her off at a train station after the couple had dinner at their weekend home in Westchester County. But there were contradictions and discrepancies in his account. And Kathleen Durst had told many friends, "If anything happens to me, don't let him get away with it," said one of them, Marion Watlington.
But the case soon faded from the headlines.
In 1994, Mr. Durst told friends he felt betrayed when his father anointed his younger brother, Douglas, to run the family empire, the Durst Organization, a privately held billion-dollar company. But in Galveston, Mr. Durst testified that he was actually relieved by his father's decision. Nevertheless, he broke with his family, refusing to attend his father's funeral in 1995.
For the next five years, Mr. Durst crisscrossed the country, living in luxurious homes in Trinidad and San Francisco, Dallas, New York and Connecticut. In 1999, a state police investigator, Joseph Becerra, got a tip that led him to reopen the investigation into Kathleen Durst's disappearance months before she was to graduate from medical school. Mr. Durst claimed that newspaper articles about the investigation had prompted his flight to Galveston.
In December 2000, he also secretly married Ms. Charatan, a New York real estate agent who had a longtime relationship with him, though the two have rarely lived together.
Mr. Durst was back in the news when his friend and confidante, Susan Berman, a writer, was found dead that same month in her Los Angeles home, shot in the back of the head. At the time, New York investigators said they had put her name on a list of people to be interviewed because she had acted as Mr. Durst's informal spokeswoman at the time his first wife disappeared. 
Mrs. Pirro has assigned a squad of investigators to Kathleen Durst's case and told witnesses that she was prepared to indict Mr. Durst, according to two people interviewed by the prosecutors' office, although it was a circumstantial case. So far, no charges have been filed. Mrs. Pirro released a statement on Tuesday saying the Galveston verdict would have no effect on her investigation.
The brother of the missing woman, James McCormack, said in a telephone interview from New Jersey that he was shocked by the verdict. "How can 12 people who heard and saw the evidence agree that he was not guilty?" he asked.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the acquittal of Robert A. Durst, the New York real estate heir, in a Texas murder trial misstated the form in which the jury's verdict was delivered. A bailiff took it from the foreman and passed it to the judge, who read it aloud; the bailiff did not announce it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert A. Durst, surrounded by his lawyers, reacting to his acquittal. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (91%); MURDER (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); MISSING PERSONS (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); MISTRIAL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SELF DEFENSE (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); AUTISM (53%); SHOPLIFTING (53%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: DURST, ROBERT A; BLACK, MORRIS; BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) GALVESTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



273 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Republican Evolution, From Lincoln to Reagan

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS BRINKLEY; Douglas Brinkley is director of the Eisenhower Center for American Studies and professor of history at the University of New Orleans.

 BODY:
GRAND OLD PARTY
A History of the Republicans
By Lewis L. Gould
Illustrated. 597 pages. Random House. $35.
 As a schoolchild in Ohio during the 1970's I was taught that "Republican" was synonymous with Abraham Lincoln. As the story went, Lincoln, imbued with backwoods charm, debated the ornery Stephen Douglas throughout Illinois in 1858 and in the process became a national political star. To Lincoln slavery was a moral issue, unsolvable by legislative compromises. 
 When he ran for president in 1860 as a Republican, he was essentially viewed as a third-party candidate. Lincoln, who won less than 40 percent of the popular vote, did not have a mandate. Never before (or after) in American history had the election of a president caused such an inflammatory ruckus. The South quickly broke away from the Union. The Civil War then ripped America apart.
Throughout the grim upheaval Lincoln, the super-Unionist, held firm, guiding his war-ravaged country through bloody battles while leading his party to victory over George B. McClellan in 1864. By winning the war and re-election, Lincoln succeeded in transforming the Republican Party from an anti-slavery soapbox into the dominant political organization in America.
The historian Lewis L. Gould explains all of this, and much more, in "Grand Old Party," a smart, sprawling, highly readable survey of the Republican Party from its origins in 1854 to George W. Bush. In workmanlike fashion Mr. Gould makes clear that the early Republican motto was "economic prosperity," even during the Civil War, and it lasted all the way to Herbert Hoover's Great Depression. The Grand Old Party, he says, was as much the party of unfettered growth as it was of Lincolnian anti-slavery. 
"A party that began as an attack on the existing political order," he writes, "became an organization that believed in an identity of the interests of capitalists, workers and farmers."
Mr. Gould, a professor emeritus in American history at the University of Texas, has long been celebrated as a reliable authority on American politics. Karl Rove, President Bush's senior adviser, credits Mr. Gould with inspiring him to study American history, and Vice President Dick Cheney has lauded his work. But these conservative accolades are deceptive. In the preface to "Grand Old Party" Mr. Gould reassures the reader that he is "not a Republican" in his "personal political views." He wants to be perceived as a party chronicler, not advocate.
Mr. Gould jumps quickly out of the gate. He breezes through the 1854 creation of the Republican Party in a few pages, offering the reader a choice between sites where it was officially founded: in Ripon, Wis., on Feb. 28, or Jackson, Mich., on March 20. Take your pick. The founders were a disgruntled mix of Whigs, Democrats and Free-Soilers. 
Why the party was created, however, is not disputed: to stop the expansion of slavery. When that high-profile explorer John C. Fremont received the Republican nomination in 1856, to the consternation of the South, his slogan was: "Free Speech, Free Press, Free Men, Free Labor, Free Territory and Fremont." While Fremont garnered only 33 percent of the vote and lost the election to James Buchanan, a Democrat, the new "Freedom Party" was established for real.
Then came the Lincoln revolution. Despite the lingering antagonism of the Deep South after the Civil War, the G.O.P. controlled the White House for all but 16 years between 1860 and 1932. 
The novelist Thomas Wolfe, in his book-length essay "From Death to Mourning," written during the early years of the Depression, wrote poignantly about how forgettable 19th-century Republican presidents -- with the exception of Lincoln -- were. "For who was Garfield, martyred man, and who had seen him in the streets of life?" Wolfe asked. "Who could believe his footfalls ever sounded on a lonely pavement? Who had heard the casual and familiar tones of Chester Arthur? And where was Harrison? Where was Hayes? Which had the whiskers, which the burnsides; which was which?" No matter who became president, they were all in the shadow of Lincoln.
While Wolfe was of course correct that 19th-century Republicans are somewhat forgettable, "Grand Old Party" is surprisingly chock full of factoids on their lives that will delight readers who embrace political history as a trivia sport. During the Civil War, for example, Republicans enacted an income tax, believing that "the rich should be taxed more than the poor." The most notorious atheist in United States history, Robert G. Ingersoll, was a Republican who orated at G.O.P. conventions. The Republican Party actually embraced the Equal Rights Amendment from 1940 to 1960.
Mr. Gould even informs us that Charles Evans Hughes was the last presidential nominee to grow a beard, and that Margaret Chase Smith was the first woman to seriously be considered a presidential contender. As for George W. Bush, he was the third Republican candidate in American history to win the White House while losing the popular vote. Whether Mr. Gould is writing about why the cartoonist Thomas Nast chose the elephant as the party mascot in Harper's Weekly or how "McCarthyism" crept into our national parlance, he is never boring.
In "Grand Old Party" he condenses 150 years of history into approximately 600 pages. He balances his character sketches between hard-core conservatives like Robert Taft and moderates like Thomas Dewey. But he plays down the enduring importance of Theodore Roosevelt in G.O.P. history. Roosevelt is portrayed as a wily reformer, more Democrat than Republican, a genuine aberration. 
"His regulatory policies, his advocacy of resource conservation in the West, and his endorsement of an inheritance tax," Mr. Gould writes, "drove conservatives to paroxysms of rage." Yet he never explains why America's two most recent conservative presidents -- Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush -- have embraced Roosevelt as their all-seasons role model.
Mr. Gould hits his high-water mark in a paean to Mr. Reagan, a revolutionary maverick who, for better or worse, turned Lincoln's Republican Party upside down in 1980. "It was as if the Republican Party had sprung from the forehead of Ronald Reagan without a past to burden its affairs," he writes. 
But one inherent characteristic of the party still holds true from Lincoln to Bush II: Republicans have never liked Democrats. And that is a trend that will undoubtedly continue. Meanwhile it's safe to say that the freedom party of Lincoln has become the conservative party of Reagan, at least for the time being.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on Wednesday, about "Grand Old Party" by Lewis L. Gould, misstated a word in the title of a work by Thomas Wolfe about the forgettable qualities of 19th-century Republican presidents, with the exception of Lincoln. It is "From Death to Morning," not "Mourning."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lewis L. Gould (Photo by Cooke Photographics/Random House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); SLAVERY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); LITERATURE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (53%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: KARL ROVE (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) BRINKLEY, DOUGLAS; GOULD, LEWIS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: GRAND OLD PARTY: A HISTORY OF THE REPUBLICANS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



274 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Term Waning, Gov. Davis Reflects on the Battle Lost 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
The bookshelves in Gov. Gray Davis's Los Angeles office are bare, stripped of his books, photographs, mementos. The traces of his three decades in public life are boxed up and headed for storage.
 The painters are in the hallway sprucing up the governor's suite in the Ronald Reagan State Office Building here, the fumes seeping under the office door a reminder of the unusual change of tenancy that will take place next Monday. 
 That afternoon, Mr. Davis will turn over the governorship of restless, striving California to Arnold Schwarzenegger, and for the first time in 30 years Mr. Davis will be neither in elected office nor otherwise employed in government. Whatever else historians conclude about his career, one fact will stand out: He was the first governor of California -- and only the second governor in the United States, after Lynn J. Frazier of North Dakota 82 years ago -- to be recalled from office.
In an hourlong interview, the 60-year-old Mr. Davis blamed for his fate the convergence of a faltering economy, the candidacy of a Hollywood mega-star and his own shortcomings as a politician and public leader. He betrayed no bitterness at the sudden and humiliating end of his term, but he could not resist a bit of wistfulness.
"Am I a little sad about leaving this job?" he said with a smile that looked more like a wince. "Sure. But I'm entering a new chapter of my life, and I'm looking forward to it."
He said that he intended to work on education issues at a private foundation and that he might also practice law. (He has a law degree from Columbia.) He also did not rule out another run for elected office.
The governor said that he believed he could have beaten any contender other than Mr. Schwarzenegger in the recall election last month, but that the actor and former bodybuilder had presented too much of a challenge.
"All the other candidates were mere mortals," he said. "But Arnold Schwarzenegger is well known, he's well liked, and he's wealthy. That's a potent combination in California politics."
Mr. Davis, a second-term Democrat, said he believed that the recall would not have succeeded without the money of Representative Darrell Issa, a Republican who paid nearly $2 million to collect the signatures needed to put the question on the special-election ballot. But, he said, the state's economic and budget problems fueled the dissatisfaction that cost him his job.
The governor recognized the volatility of California voters after his re-election in 2002, a victory he achieved with a surprisingly narrow margin over Bill Simon Jr., a political first-timer.
"I just felt we were on borrowed time," he said.
So he was not surprised when in February he received notice of the intent to try to recall him. That had happened twice early in his first term, when the California economy was booming, but neither effort qualified for the ballot.
"It's a pleasure to govern in good times," he said. "It's a bummer to govern in bad times."
Mr. Davis does not question the wisdom of the recall provision in the California Constitution, which was put there in the early 20th century at the initiative of Progressive Party leaders who then governed the state. He does, however, think the threshold for signatures -- 12 percent of the number of those who voted in the most recent election for governor -- is too low in the age of the Internet and paid signature-harvesters.
But while Mr. Davis attributes his ouster largely to the economy and a well-financed opposition, he does not spare himself a part of the blame.
"I didn't stay in touch with the people," he said. "That's clearly my biggest regret. Voters are the source of all wisdom. You have to conduct an ongoing dialogue with them."
Mr. Davis spent much of his first term in Sacramento wrangling with legislators, cutting deals with lobbyists and soliciting money from political donors. He neglected his base in the Democratic Party and spent little time traveling around the state listening to voters. His image as an aloof technocrat was well earned.
He tried to undo that reputation during the recall election campaign, with a calculated personality transplant. He conducted numerous town hall meetings and talked more openly than he ever had about his personal life. He brought in the Democratic Party's most charismatic leaders to vouch for his virtue and warn of the dangers of throwing out an elected leader. But none of it worked.
The recent wildfires in Southern California, after the recall, afforded Mr. Davis a last opportunity to display the leadership qualities that had eluded him. His performance was an exercise in ubiquity, in which he visited two or three scenes of devastation a day while the fires raged, offering governmental assistance and personal comfort to officials and victims. He says he hopes people will remember all that as they weigh his service to the state over three decades.
"I had a chance to focus on helping people," he said of his activity during the fires. "That's why I ran for office in the first place."
Mr. Davis has devoted much of his time since the recall election to overseeing the transfer of power to Mr. Schwarzenegger. By all accounts, the transition has been a model of civility and grace. In the interview, Mr. Davis praised Mr. Schwarzenegger's initial steps and early appointments.
The governor and his wife, Sharon, invited Mr. Schwarzenegger and his wife, Maria Shriver, to dinner last week at a Los Angeles restaurant. There, he said, he told the governor-elect to expect to come under extreme pressure from members of his own party and from interest groups that have five years of pent-up demand for policy changes.
Mr. Davis recalled that shortly after he himself took office in 1999, succeeding a Republican governor, he complained to his wife about the incessant demands, but that she replied: "Snap out of it. You spent your whole life wanting to be governor. You should enjoy every moment."
Mr. Davis said that although he and Mr. Schwarzenegger disagreed in many policy areas, they shared one thing: a terror of Mr. Schwarzenegger's mother-in-law, Eunice Kennedy Shriver. He said that the night before Jimmy Carter's inauguration as president in 1977, he and Gov. Jerry Brown, to whom he was then chief of staff, stayed at the Shrivers' home in Washington. He and Mr. Brown rushed off the next morning to attend a preinaugural breakfast with Senator Edward M. Kennedy and did not see the Shrivers again that day.
Years later, he ran into Mrs. Shriver and asked if she remembered him from their earlier meeting.
"Of course I do," she said icily. "You left without saying goodbye. And you left without making your bed."
Mr. Davis admitted sheepishly that it was true. He added, "Arnold shared some similar incidents, which I won't relate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Gray Davis of California attributes his recall partly to a faltering state economy. "It's a pleasure to govern in good times," said Mr. Davis, who gives up office next Monday, but "a bummer to govern in bad times." (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TRENDS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); HISTORY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); FOUNDATIONS (63%) RECALL (ELECTIONS); PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%) DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



275 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Never Love A Stranger 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Both power centers of the Democratic establishment the Kennedy left and the Clinton middle -- are frantic at the prospect of losing control of their party to Howard Dean. They fear a McGovernesque debacle that would hand the G.O.P. a super-majority in the Senate. 
 Clintonites were first to take the Dean threat seriously. As reported gleefully in this space (full disclosure: I'm rooting for Dean's candidacy in hopes of the debacle), the Clinton crowd surrounded ex-Gen. Wesley Clark with Clinton managers, spinmeisters, pollsters and fund-raisers and marched him into battle against Dean. 
 The Clinton political strategy was, as usual, astute: let Dick Gephardt slow Dean down in Iowa, then push Clark hard enough to upset Dean in New Hampshire, or at least attract enough of the isolationist vote from Dean to let John Kerry squeak through.
Of course, if the national economy had gone south, Hillary would have gone South with Clark on her ticket to take on an unemployment-ravaged Bush herself. But with the economy surging and Democrats robbed of their central issue, Hillary can wait till 2008. It is in the Clintons' interest for the 2004 Democratic nominee to lose respectably, not in a landslide, laying the basis for a 2008 comeback that would be impossible if Dean were in the White House.
But what of the other power center of the Democratic establishment -- who would be its logical stop-Dean candidate? Not Gephardt, who -- although an ardent tax-raiser and entitlement maven -- has been a stalwart supporter of winning the war and peace in Iraq. Not Joe Lieberman (too centrist and moralist), not Wes Clark (property of the Clintons), not John Edwards (too light). 
So the Kennedy Left moved in to resuscitate John Kerry's campaign. Kerry is a war hero who led Vietnam Vets Against the War and has long been a Kennedy Senate ally. Some liberals believe he expunged his sin of having voted for this year's resolution to overthrow Saddam by recently joining Kennedy in voting against paying for it.
The Kennedyization of the Kerry campaign was carried out by Jeanne Shaheen, the former New Hampshire governor. She prevailed on the candidate to fire his longtime manager, Jim Jordan, and replace him with Mary Beth Cahill, Ted Kennedy's chief of staff. Cahill has impeccable far-left credentials, from Emily's List fund-raising to Representative Barney Frank's staff. She is an ideological soulmate of the superb writer and Kennedy Boston braintruster Robert Shrum, who has been battling Jordan to yank Kerry's moderate position over to the demonstrative dovecote.
Will this Kennedy-Clinton Combine be able to save the Democratic establishment from the assault of this generation's McGovern? Will Terry McAuliffe, imposed on the Democratic National Committee by the Clintons, count any more now that Dean has broken free of the normal financing to rely on Internet movers and billionaire George Soros? 
Dean has an unexpected development going for him: because his basic pitch has been to deride Iraq's liberation, he is the one Democrat not ensnared in the now-embarrassing denunciation of Bush economic policy. 
Every Democratic candidate, Dean included but not most loudly, has been hammering at the rising deficit and the loss of new jobs, blaming both on Bush tax cuts. But that ground is crumbling under them; if prosperity continues to make its comeback, their biggest complaint would become Bush's greatest boast. 
Then Dean would make a bumper sticker out of what we have already begun to hear: "It's the War, Stupid." He would echo the McGovern slogan, "Come home, America," and if the war is going badly in a few months, Dean would blow Clinton and Kennedy and the other old-timers away. 
But both Democratic power centers are surely considering the other possibility: that Bush is lucky. What if the war on terror begins to succeed by next summer, casualties decline, Saddam is found or Osama is killed? In that case, Bush would campaign on both growing prosperity and impending victory.
In that case, the Clinton-Kennedy establishment would be better off maintaining control and losing respectably with Kerry, Clark or even Gephardt than getting buried in a landslide with Dean. And in 2008, as Jeb Bush and Condi Rice fight out their G.O.P. primaries, Hillary will be tanned, rested and ready. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (63%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTIONS 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (89%); JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JIM JORDAN (58%); BARNEY FRANK (55%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); CLINTON, BILL; DEAN, HOWARD (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



276 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Chatter in the Cave of the Winds 

 BODY:
Senate majority Republicans might take a moment -- or even a vote -- to extend reassurance to the nation's millions of unemployed tonight during the 30-hour ersatz "filibuster" they plan to protest the Democrats' blocking of President Bush's more extremist judicial appointees. The filibusterers will talk through the night, performing from a political script in a time-wasting tableau designed to produce campaign fodder for next year. But out there in real life, federal emergency unemployment benefits are scheduled to expire on Dec. 31 with no sign of notice from the Republicans in Congress. A year ago, they blithely quit the Capitol and let the unemployed stew through the holidays before retroactively approving a benefit extension that was far too modest. 
 This filibuster has no practical purpose. In the older days, a single lawmaker had to talk nonstop to block a hated bill; nowadays the leadership merely counts heads to see if enough senators want to block a bill and then it is silently hung up. So if the retro-orators just want to make rhetorical points today and run short of topics, we beg them to ponder their jobless constituents instead of resorting to boilerplate sound bites and creaky filibuster stunts (in sad memory there was Alfonse D'Amato's singing an "Old McDonald" parody). 
 Serious help is needed for the 2.4 million more recent jobless facing the end of their state benefits, not to mention the 2.1 million long-term unemployed who have slipped off the job-hunting scope. The promising uptick in the deep hiring slump -- 126,000 new jobs in October -- is less than half the rate needed to even begin to dent the backup of joblessness. To deal realistically with the problem, Congress needs to double -- to 26 weeks from 13 weeks -- the federal emergency benefits that are available when state benefits run out. This would be similar to the help offered during the recession of a decade ago when long-term joblessness, especially in manufacturing, was hardly the problem it is now.
After the tax-cutting binges President Bush and Congress engineered for the affluent, failure to renew the nation's helping hand to the jobless would present a scandalous holiday scenario worthy of Dickens. More than talk, action is required. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%) COURTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS; EDITORIALS; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



277 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Bremer Returns to U.S. For Urgent Talks on Iraq
L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator in Iraq, made a hurried return to Washington as Bush administration officials held an urgent round of meetings to discuss ways of speeding up the transfer of power to Iraqis. The meetings reflected dissatisfaction with the pace of progress in Iraq. A1

Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, the top American military commander in Iraq, spoke of a "turning point" in the conflict and outlined a new get-tough approach to combat operations in strongholds of Saddam Hussein loyalists. A8

Prime Minister Tony Blair urged demonstrators mounting street protests against President Bush's visit to London next week to look beyond their objections to the war and focus on the future. A8

Hazy Prognosis on Afghanistan
Hours after a bomb exploded outside the United Nations offices in Kandahar, injuring at least two people, the German ambassador told the Security Council that terrorism, drug-related crime and factional fighting in Afghanistan were threatening efforts to rebuild the country. A9

Russian Tycoon Remains Jailed
A Moscow court refused to free Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, who resigned last week as chairman of Yukos Oil, upholding an earlier decision to hold him in prison at least until the end of the year while prosecutors complete their investigation of alleged fraud, tax evasion and other crimes. A5

U.S.-Korea Troop Deal on Hold
A deal between American and South Korean negotiators to relocate thousands of United States troops from Seoul is being held up while South Korea decides how many American forces, if any, it wants to remain. A10

Report Critical of Israeli Barrier
The route for Israel's planned boundary barrier would put nearly 15 percent of West Bank land on the Israeli side and disrupt the lives of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians, according to a United Nations report. A6

NATIONAL A12-18

New Kerry Campaign Chief Has Experience and Critics
Bob Shrum is considered a heavyweight in molding a candidate's message, but as the staff of Senator John Kerry's campaign defects, many of Mr. Shrum's detractors are talking less about his gifts and more about what some describe as his curse. A1

Davis Discusses His Downfall
Gov. Gray Davis of California, who on Monday will turn over the office to Arnold Schwarzenegger, attributed his loss to the convergence of a faltering economy, the candidacy of a Hollywood megastar and his own shortcomings as a politician and public leader. A12

Catholic Dioceses Skip Survey
Nearly one-fifth of Roman Catholic dioceses have failed to respond to a survey on the extent of the sexual molestation of minors by priests, a church-appointed monitor said, but she added that she was confident all would respond in time for sweeping reports on the abuse crisis. A16

Sniper Defense Readies Case
As John A. Muhammad's lawyers prepare to present their case, they must find ways to counter three weeks of detailed forensic evidence that seemed to link the defendant to the Washington-area shootings. A14

Clark Backs Flag Burning Ban
Gen. Wesley K. Clark said that he supported a proposed constitutional amendment that would make it illegal to burn or otherwise desecrate the American flag, a position that puts him at odds with many constituencies in the Democratic Party. A18

Increased Powers for the F.B.I.
A little-noticed measure approved by both houses of Congress would significantly expand the F.B.I.'s power to demand financial records from many businesses without a judge's approval, officials said. A12

Pentagon to Get $400 Billion
After agreeing to drop a provision requiring many military contracts to go to American companies, Congress is on the verge of passing a record bill for Pentagon spending. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Jury Acquits Durst In Murder Trial
Robert A. Durst, the New York multimillionaire who admitted that he had butchered his 71-year-old neighbor's body and dumped the parts into Galveston Bay, was acquitted of murder. A1

Police Prepare for Convention
New York City police have been at work since June trying to prepare for the Republican National Convention next August, an event that could draw hundreds of thousands of protestors to the congested streets of Midtown while President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney are in town. B1

Stained Glass Window Found
A stained glass window considered irreplaceable to the congregation of the Zion Episcopal Church in Rome, N.Y., was found undamaged, after it was stolen three months ago. B1

EDUCATION B8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Defibrillators Aid Survival
Cardiac arrest patients were twice as likely to survive in places where defibrillators were publicly available and volunteers had been trained to use them, according to a study reported at a meeting of the American Heart Association. A16

ARTS E1-8

DINING F1-16

OBITUARIES C13

Art Carney
The Academy Award-winning comic actor who first gained fame as the guffawing sewer worker Ed Norton in the early 1950's television series "The Honeymooners," he was 85. C13

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Projections Doomed Pensions
Nearly 150 pension plans failed in the last year in large part because of improper assumptions regarding future events like when workers will retire and how long they will live. A1

Crossroads for Trade Policy
Having come into office vowing to surpass the record of his predecessor and aggressively press for new free trade agreements, President Bush now faces a trade war with Europe if he does not repeal his steel tariffs. C1

Cablevision Posts Loss
Cablevision Systems posted a wider third-quarter loss than last year and told investors it would restate its quarterly earnings statements for 2003 to reflect $15 million of expenses that were improperly recorded in 2002 and earlier. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-7

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: In search of nuclear control; chatter in the cave of the winds; the road to preserving history; Verlyn Klinkenborg on measuring information.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E7
TV Listings E8
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RELIGION (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (83%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); PRISONS (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (70%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); TERRORISM (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); TAX FRAUD (66%); TAX LAW (66%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (61%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); TONY BLAIR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



278 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Old Loyalist and New Face Divide Backing of Unions 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Gerald W. McEntee, the president of the nation's largest public-sector union, has long been looking for a Democratic presidential contender who can be a winner, and two months ago he was leaning toward the candidacy of Gen. Wesley K. Clark.
 Mr. McEntee, whose 1.4 million union members are a formidable political force, even asked Harold M. Ickes, the deputy White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton, to run the Clark campaign, several Democrats said. But over time Mr. McEntee soured on General Clark, and today he plans to announce that his union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, is endorsing Howard Dean. 
 That Dean endorsement, along with one from the Service Employees International Union, will represent a signal moment for organized labor, pointing to uncomfortable fault lines inside the movement. 
The nation's industrial unions, whose members have been buffeted by global trade, are generally rallying to the side of Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who is backed by 21 unions. Meanwhile, in backing Dr. Dean, the two giant and fast-growing service and government-sector unions are in search of a new force and face.
The split is also a problem for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, John J. Sweeney, who has faced recriminations and backbiting over his inability to line up the necessary support of two-thirds of his federation behind Mr. Gephardt for organized labor's coveted endorsement. The Gephardt forces had pressed Mr. Sweeney to call a meeting of union presidents in October, predicting that a two-thirds majority would materialize behind their candidate, but Mr. Sweeney refused, concluding that there would be no consensus and that such a meeting could embarrass labor.
"The A.F.L.-C.I.O. had an opportunity to stand up for the candidate that stood up for labor, and they've chosen to take a pass," said Bret Caldwell, a spokesman for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, one of the earliest and most fervent backers of Mr. Gephardt. 
In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Sweeney tried to play down divisions, saying: "We're not split. We're unified about the goal here, and that's to elect a president other than George Bush in 2004. I think the labor movement will be solidly united in the elections."
In some ways the split within labor goes straight to the heart of various unions' perceptions of themselves, even union leaders acknowledge. The industrial unions backing Mr. Gephardt, like the steelworkers and machinists, see themselves as beleaguered and have embraced a candidate who has devoted much of his career to helping the industrial heartland. In contrast, the service employees union is growing and sees itself as a grass-roots, bottom-up and new type of union -- just like Dr. Dean's campaign.
Thomas Buffenbarger, the machinists' president, said of the service employees' and government employees' unions, "They're captivated by the glitz and glamour and the 'new day' stuff." Mr. Buffenbarger added: "My unionis going to make our candidate somebody who allows us to go to sleep at night knowing the most powerful official in America isn't plotting how to hurt them. We feel that way about Dick Gephardt. He has our interests at heart. Howard Dean's a nice guy, I like him, but I don't think he understands the depth of the problems faced by industrial America."
Mr. McEntee's thinking is instructive, many labor leaders said. He is known for trying to pick Democrats with the best chance of winning the presidency. His was the first big union to back Mr. Clinton in 1992.
In the last 10 days, union officials said, Mr. McEntee, whose aides said he was unavailable for an interview, sent people to question the campaigns of the major candidates, seeking to assess strategy, finances, personnel, field operations and chances.
Early this year, Mr. McEntee tilted toward John Kerry when Mr. Kerry was perceived as the candidate to beat, union officials say. But Mr. McEntee became disenchanted with Mr. Kerry when the campaign floundered. Next came his flirtation with General Clark and efforts to place Mr. Ickes in the Clark campaign, labor officials said. 
"Gerry weighs electability very high on the scale of things," said Andrew Stern, the service employees' president. 
Union leaders said Mr. McEntee began souring on General Clark when he fumbled over his stance on Iraq soon after announcing his candidacy. Mr. McEntee grew unhappier still, they said, when the general decided not to compete in the Iowa caucuses without telling Mr. McEntee, who had been thinking of mobilizing his union's 30,000 members in Iowa to help the general.
Mr. Stern said his own union endorsed Dr. Dean because its 1.5 million members repeatedly backed him in internal polls.
"I don't think there's anything wrong with Gephardt," Mr. Stern said. "But people feel comfortable that Dean can raise money to be competitive with George Bush. Secondly, everywhere I've been and watched he has drawn a different level of crowds and enthusiasm and passion than I normally see from political candidates."
Dr. Dean's emphasis on improving health care was a major attraction for both Mr. McEntee's union and the service employees, who represent many health-care workers. But for many industrial unions backing Mr. Gephardt, the big issues are saving jobs, shoring up America's manufacturing base and fighting free trade and the flight of jobs overseas -- issues that Mr. Gephardt has emphasized in his years in Congress.
Discussing the divergent endorsements, one Democratic consultant who often advises labor unions said: "I think the division is pretty significant for labor. It in some ways has been brewing for a while. For the industrial unions, the trade debate was the No. 1 issue, but if you ask someone from Afscme or the service employees about free trade or steel quotas, they care as much about that as the average civilian."
Mr. Sweeney, who preceded Mr. Stern as president of the service employees, has faced accusations from industrial unions of not doing enough to protect manufacturing jobs and fight free-trade bills.
Some union leaders find it hard to understand how any union cannot endorse Mr. Gephardt considering that he is widely seen as one of labor's best friends in Washington.
"Everyone knows where the election is going to be won next November -- it will be in the battleground states of the Midwest," said Mike Mathis, political director of the Teamsters union, which has 1.4 million members. "No one is in a better position to win the Midwest than Gephardt. And no one has as good a labor record -- I'm talking about 25 years of fighting for working men and women." 
With its caucuses in January, Iowa is expected to be a major battlefield. And Mr. McEntee's union is expected to deploy hundreds of foot soldiers to vie with Gephardt supporters from the Teamsters, steelworkers, machinists and other unions.
Sixteen unions that have backed Mr. Gephardt, claiming 55,000 members in Iowa, have formed a group called the Alliance for Economic Justice. The group will organize mailings, home visits and phone banks. The alliance will begin broadcasting television spots today praising Mr. Gephardt.
"These unions may cancel each other out," said Mr. Ickes, who advises numerous unions on political strategy. "But that doesn't mean labor won't be an effective force."
Facing criticism that he had not done enough to back Mr. Gephardt, Mr. Sweeney said, "I am trying to manage things in as unified a way as possible, but the real challenge is to bring everybody back together in support of whoever the nominee is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the machinists' union, says, "Howard Dean's a nice guy," but his union is backing Richard A. Gephardt.; Gerald W. McEntee, president of the nation's largest public-sector union, will announce his union's backing of Howard Dean today. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUNTIES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ORGANIZED LABOR; ENDORSEMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (83%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); AFL-CIO (55%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%) DEAN, HOWARD (DR); MCENTEE, GERALD W; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); SWEENEY, JOHN J; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) (RET) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



279 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: For Bush, A Janus-Like View of Trade 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
In the next few weeks, President Bush will decide what kind of a trade president he wants to be.
 After coming into office vowing to surpass the record of President Bill Clinton and aggressively press for new free trade agreements, Mr. Bush's administration finds itself facing growing complaints that some of its policies look like those of a protectionist rather than a free trader. 
 The administration faces the prospect of a trade war with Europe if the president fails to lift his temporary steel tariffs, which were ruled illegal on Monday by a World Trade Organization panel. A week from now, talks are to resume to extend the North American Free Trade Agreement throughout the Western Hemisphere, a proposal that has been protested by labor unions, small farmers and environmental advocates. 
 Even the staunchest allies, like Australia, have complained that the farm bill President Bush signed into law last year is an impediment to new global trade agreements.
 All countries will be watching to see if Mr. Bush, the leader of a nation that has profited substantially from global trade, defies the W.T.O. and accepts $2 billion of European sanctions rather than lift the 30 percent tariffs that are meant to protect the American steel industry as it consolidates.
 Politics will naturally play an important role in that decision, just as it did when the administration decided to impose the steel tariffs and accept new American farm subsidies as the necessary price to pay for the authority to negotiate free trade agreements with little interference from Congress.
 The steel tariffs went a long way to winning votes from lawmakers representing manufacturing states. The farm states, led by Representative Larry Combest, Republican of Texas, made it clear that their votes depended on support for the 2002 farm bill. At one stage, Mr. Combest removed his name from the legislation for trade authority until the president assured him of his support for the increased farm subsidies.
 Now the bargain struck for trade promotion authority is threatening to backfire.
 Sebastian Mallaby, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said Mr. Bush and his trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, had committed the classic mistake of free traders who thought they could "buy the allegiance of protectionists, whether they are big farmers or the steel industry, to make some advance in their long-term trade policy and not become captives of the protectionists."
 "It was naive of them to think there wouldn't be a price for all of this," Mr. Mallaby said. "Now, they've disillusioned people in their own free trade camp."
 The immediate issue is the steel tariffs, and the White House remains divided over them.
 President Bush's economic team at the White House -- led by Stephen Friedman, director of the National Economic Council, and N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers -- is in favor of ending the special steel tariffs. The tariffs have never been popular among economists, who generally oppose trade barriers of most types.
 President Bush's political advisers, however, are looking at next year's election and the role steel producers in Pennsylvania and Ohio will play in helping win these important battlegrounds. But those and other big industrial states are also home to big steel consumers, like car manufacturers and their suppliers, which have been paying higher prices.
 White House officials say they do not need to make a decision on the steel tariffs right away. The European Union must wait for the W.T.O. to officially approve the panel's ruling sometime from Nov. 21 to Dec. 10. And they say there are potential compromises that might placate the Europeans without abandoning all the tariffs.
 But to some lawmakers who are worried that the mood in the country is moving against free trade, this seems like unnecessary delaying tactics.
 Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said on Tuesday that the time had come to end the steel tariffs. Taking the side of industries that use steel and complain that the tariffs raise their cost of doing business, Mr. Alexander said the tariffs had already destroyed jobs in the American automobile industry. Now, he said, foreign sanctions would do more damage.
 "Because of the W.T.O. ruling," he said, "continuing the tariff will destroy thousands more of our textile and agricultural jobs. President Bush's honest effort to save steel jobs is now backfiring and hurting American workers."
 The obvious question is whether the trade promotion authority was worth the bargain on steel and subsidies.
 So far, Mr. Zoellick has completed free trade agreements with Chile and Singapore that were begun during the Clinton administration. He succeeded in starting a new global trade round at Doha, Qatar, not long after the attacks of September 2001. But nearly two months ago, the talks broke up spectacularly at Cancun, Mexico, in large part over American and European farm subsidies.
 Other direct, nation-to-nation trade talks are under way, and Mr. Zoellick hopes to wrap up a free trade agreement with five Central American countries by the end of the year.
 Next week, Mr. Zoellick will have a chance to improve that record at a Free Trade Area of the Americas meeting in Miami -- hoping to push ahead with another Clinton initiative to expand the North American Free Trade Agreement to the entire hemisphere.
 That got back on track last weekend when Mr. Zoellick agreed to focus on lowering tariffs for the moment rather than to continue battling for new rules he wants covering intellectual property rights, government procurement and foreign investment. In return, Brazil agreed to put aside, for the moment, its demand for a reduction in United States farm subsidies.
 Those subsidies are also on the political radar screen. The "red states" territory in the Midwest and South that voted for Mr. Bush in the 2000 election are some of the biggest recipients of those subsidies, and it is unlikely that he will upset those voters with a new free trade agreement soon before the presidential election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); TREATIES; STEEL AND IRON; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) UNITED STATES; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



280 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Warn U.S. on Wider Effects From Steel Tariffs 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
European nations including Britain warned on Tuesday that a trade war could erupt if the United States ignored a ruling by the World Trade Organization that American tariffs on imported steel are illegal.
 President Bush is to arrive in London next week for a three-day state visit starting on Wednesday. If the steel tariffs have not been lifted by then, the dispute is likely to figure in the talks with Prime Minister Tony Blair, a spokesman for the prime minister said. "This has been and continues to be an area of concern for us," the spokesman said at a regular news briefing. How large the tariffs loom will "depend on where we are on the issue when the president arrives," the spokesman added. 
 A trade dispute could further sour the atmosphere surrounding the visit; Britons opposed to the war in Iraq have threatened large protests.
 A World Trade Organization panel ruled on Monday that the United States had violated international trade rules when it imposed the steel tariffs, which were meant to give struggling American steel makers some relief from foreign competition. The European Union has threatened countertariffs on some $2.2 billion worth of American goods, including citrus fruit from Florida. 
 European officials have said that the retaliatory tariffs would be imposed five days after the trade organization formally adopts Monday's ruling, a step it is expected to take on Dec. 1, and that the targets would be products made in American states that are important to Mr. Bush's re-election hopes in 2004. Several European trade officials said on Tuesday that a trade war was possible if the tariffs were not rolled back.
 Patricia Hewitt, the British trade and industry secretary, said she had told American officials that once the ruling was formally adopted, "Europe's retaliation will be automatic unless the United States abandons those steel tariffs." 
 "I do not want to see Europe getting into a trade war with the United States," Ms. Hewitt said, "but the ball is now in Washington's court. I hope that they will, inlight of the W.T.O. ruling, back off on those tariffs, which are damaging their own manufacturers." 
 The impact of the American tariffs on British steel makers has been blunted somewhat by a number of exemptions the United States granted to certain producers, according to British steel industry officials. 
 Mike Hitchcock, a spokesman for Corus, a large British-Dutch steel producer, said sales to the United States from British plants had held steady, partly as a result of exemptions and partly because American importers continued to purchase high-value engineering-steel products despite the higher cost. 
 But Mr. Hitchcock said sales from the company's plants in the Netherlands had fallen by some 30 percent this year, as a result of the strong euro and disputes with the United States. Over all, he said, Corus's British and Dutch sales to the United States totaled 360,000 tons in the first half of 2003, 10 percent less than in the 2002 period. 
 The effects of the American tariffs also seem to have been partly offset by a general recovery in demand for steel that has enabled producers to raise prices. ThyssenKrupp, Germany's biggest steel manufacturer, said on Tuesday that it had achieved its target of pretax profit of $800 million for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30. 
 Still, in the wake of the W.T.O. ruling against the tariffs, nations from Norway to Japan raised a chorus of demands that Washington scrap them. Shoichi Nakagawa, the Japanese trade and industry minister, said his country would embark on unspecified retaliatory measures "should the United States refuse to terminate its illegal practice," The Associated Press reported. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (96%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; STEEL AND IRON 

COMPANY: TATA STEEL EUROPE (85%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) COWELL, ALAN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%) EUROPE; EUROPEAN UNION; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



281 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: Will Hydrogen Clear the Air? Maybe Not,Say Some 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
Widespread hydrogen use has been enthusiastically embraced by major corporations and environmentalists alike as a panacea for global warming and the depletion of fossil fuels, and is a particular favorite of the Bush administration. But skeptics, and even some hydrogen advocates, say that use of hydrogen could instead make the air dirtier and the globe warmer.
 Next week, the Bush administration is convening a meeting of the energy ministers of 15 countries to Washington for a four-day meeting with the theme of an "International Partnership for the Hydrogen Economy." President Bush himself pledged in the State of the Union address in January that "the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen, and pollution-free." 
 Use of hydrogen fuel cells could certainly help eliminate tailpipe pollution and dependence on foreign oil. But hydrogen is only a way to store energy. Where the energy comes from in the first place is where the problems start. 
 The most ambitious use of hydrogen is in a car powered by a fuel cell -- a batterylike device that turns hydrogen into electricity while emitting only heat and water vapor.
 Hydrogen can also be burned directly in engines much like those that run on gasoline, but the Energy Department goal is fuel cells because they get twice as much work out of a pound of hydrogen.
 Intense research is now going on at major companies and universities in North America on the development of a practical fuel cell. Success could have a profound effect on the 200 million motor vehicles in use in the United States, making the streets cleaner and quieter, with hydrogen-powered electric motors. The transition to hydrogen could also wean the country away from gasoline and diesel fuel.
 The main source for hydrogen today is natural gas, which is in short supply, is cumbersome to convert, and may have better uses. Waiting in the wings is coal, burned in old power plants around the country that are already the focus of a national dispute over their emissions. Coal is cheap and abundant, and produced by major companies that are eager to continue mining and using it. But it is a leading source of carbon dioxide, an important global warming gas, and pollutants that cause more immediate problems, like smog and acid rain.
 "Even though fuel cells are great devices, you can still do unwise things with them," Patrick B. Davis, a team leader in the Energy Department's fuel cell program, told a recent meeting of experts at the University of South Carolina examining the engineering challenges.
 The long-term hope is to make hydrogen from emission-free "renewable" technologies, like windmills or solar cells. In fact, hydrogen may be an essential step to translate the energy of wind or sunlight into power to turn a car's wheels, experts say. But electricity from renewable technologies is so costly that even companies based on these technologies see problems.
 At Sharp Solar, which says it is the world's largest manufacturer of solar cells, Ronald Kenedi, the general manager, said that it was entirely possible that the energy source to produce hydrogen for vehicles would initially turn out to be coal, rather than the sun or wind. "That is the danger," he said in a telephone interview. "It seems like hydrogen is the buzz word right now, with the president talking about it, and maybe putting some money towards it," he said. "But the first stop on the hydrogen trail will be coal." 
 For now the government is mostly glossing over the problem. A strategy document published by the Energy Department in November, 2002, the "National Hydrogen Energy Roadmap," suggests marketing the idea of hydrogen to the public as the "freedom fuel." Another suggested theme was "Hydrogen is everywhere -- it's right in our backyard."
 "Hydrogen," the department said, "is the 'man on the moon' equivalent for this generation." In fact, the latter analogy might prove apt, with hydrogen fuel cells resembling the Apollo rockets, as an impressive technology that was made workable and repeatedly demonstrated, but not capable of making major inroads into general use.
 For now, fuel cells are about 100 times as expensive, per unit of power, as internal combustion engines.
 A likely source of hydrogen is from a machine called an electrolyzer, which is like a fuel cell in reverse. The difference is that a fuel cell combines oxygen from the air with hydrogen to produce an electric current, and water as a byproduct; an electrolyzer runs an electric current through water, to split the water molecule into its constituent hydrogen and oxygen atoms.
 The problem is that if the electricity came off the power grid to run an electrolyzer for the production of hydrogen, about half of it, on average, would be generated by burning coal.
 From an entrepreneur's point of view, coal has a tremendous advantage. At Proton Energy, a Connecticut company that builds the electrolyzing machines that use current to produce hydrogen, Walter Schroeder, president and chief executive, laid out the problem in terms of dollars per million B.T.U.'s, a standard quantity of heat in the fuel business.
 At $20 a ton, he pointed out, a million B.T.U.'s of heat from coal costs roughly 82 cents. At $1.75 a gallon for unleaded regular gasoline, the price per million B.T.U.'s is $15.40. To use coal to run cars, the coal has to be converted into electricity, then into hydrogen, then back into electricity in the car, all of which costs money. But Mr. Schroeder is betting that his system can do that for a lot less than the difference between $15.40 and 82 cents.
 The president's proposal contained an implicit recognition that a big part of the fuel cell question is the fuel, not the conversion device. He called for spending $1.7 billion over five years, with $1.2 billion of that on hydrogen, including production, delivery and storage.
 Another problem is carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas. According to the Energy Department, an ordinary gasoline-powered car emits 374 grams of carbon dioxide per mile it is driven, counting the energy used to make the gasoline and deliver it to the service station, and the emissions of the vehicle itself. The same car powered by a fuel cell would emit nothing, but if the energy required to make the hydrogen came from the electric grid, the emissions would be 436 grams per mile, 17 percent worse than the figure for gasoline.
 The car would emit no nitrogen oxides, a precursor of smog, but the power plant would; exactly how much is now the subject of a national debate.
 Hydrogen is commonly manufactured today at refineries and chemical plants, by mixing natural gas and steam. Natural gas is made of hydrogen and carbon atoms; steam is made of hydrogen and oxygen atoms. The reaction, called steam reforming, produces hydrogen and carbon dioxide.
 According to the energy department, if fuel cells in cars used hydrogen from steam reforming of natural gas, cars would emit 145 grams of global warming gases per mile. That is a drastic improvement over the 436 grams emitted by the production of hydrogen using grid electricity, and a major improvement over gasoline's 374 grams, but experts say it may not be a particularly good use of natural gas.
 One reason is that if the engineers had simply replaced the gasoline with the natural gas, skipping the hydrogen fuel cell step in between, the total carbon dioxide emissions per mile would fall to 310 grams, according to the Energy Department. No new technology is required for that step; buses burning natural gas in internal combustion engines are common today.
 And there is a second option that involves hardly any new technology, hybridization. In a hybrid, a fossil-fueled internal combustion engine can turn the wheels or a generator that is used to charge batteries, and the batteries run an electric motor to drive the wheels. The Toyota Prius and the Honda Insight use that system. Hybridization improves the fuel economy of the Honda Civic by 43 percent, according to the company. So replacing a gasoline car with a hybrid electric fueled by natural gas would cut the grams of global warming gases to about 177 a mile.
 That still leaves the fuel cell that runs on hydrogen from natural gas with an advantage over the typical hybrid of about a fifth, or a further reduction of about 32 grams of global warming gases per mile. But the fuel cell bus is many times more expensive than an ordinary or hybrid bus, and the fuel costs several times as much as diesel. And the natural gas hybrid solution is available almost immediately; it would be many years before fuel cell buses made a substantial debut.
 Reuel Shinnar, a professor of chemical engineering at City College of New York, reviewing the options for power production and fuel production, concluded in a recent paper, "A hydrogen economy is at least twice as expensive as any other solution."
 Supporters of fuel cell cars say that hydrogen can be made from almost anything, including hydropower, new nuclear reactors, and technologies barely dreamed of, like microbes that will produce hydrogen from waste materials, and that this justifies the research even if early batches of hydrogen come from coal.
 "The mantra is, we don't choose now," said William Craven, manager, regulatory and technical affairs at the DaimlerChrysler Corporation. When it comes to hydrogen production he said, the trick at this stage is to "keep the portfolio open."
 But some parts of the portfolio are more environmentally beneficial than others. Dan W. Reicher, a former assistant secretary of energy for conservation and renewables, who now manages a fund that invests in companies that produce energy from renewable sources, put it this way: "Not all hydrogen is created equal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A General Motors concept vehicle shown last January runs on a hydrogen fuel cell. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (93%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); SMOG (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); WIND ENERGY (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (74%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (74%); ACID RAIN (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) WEATHER; HYDROGEN; GLOBAL WARMING; AUTOMOBILES; FUEL CELLS; ELECTRIC VEHICLES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



282 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Tied to Milken, The Ride Still Can Be Bumpy

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Investing in the second act of Michael Milken, the onetime king of junk bonds, has not been a rewarding experience for everyone. Just ask the shareholders of Nextera Enterprises, a company controlled by Mr. Milken and his brother, Lowell, and Lawrence J. Ellison, the chairman of the Oracle Corporation.
 Nextera's shareholders are scheduled to meet Friday to vote on the company's proposed sale of its only operation, a corporate consulting business, to FTI Consulting for $130 million. The transaction, which is expected to close before the end of the year, would leave Nextera as a penny stock representing ownership of an empty shell whose purpose is unclear. 
 Compared with LeapFrog Enterprises, a company taken public by the Milken brothers and Mr. Ellison last year, Nextera has been a toad. Investors who paid $10 for their shares in Nextera's initial sale of stock in 1999 have lost more than 95 percent of their money. Yesterday, Nextera shares closed at 36 cents, down a penny on Nasdaq.
 By contrast, shares of LeapFrog, which makes educational toys, hit a high of $47.30 last month before falling sharply on a disappointing third-quarter earnings report. Its shares lost $1.57 yesterday, to close at $34.37. Last week, when MichaelMilken registered to sell 1 million of his 7.9 million shares of LeapFrog, they were worth about $35 each, almost triple the initial offering price 16 months ago. So far, he has sold 800,000 shares, a company official said.
 According to LeapFrog's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Milkens and Mr. Ellison, as a group, owned about 29 million shares of stock. But their shares are Class B shares, each of them carrying 10 votes, giving them 90 percent of the voting power and leaving the holders of Class A shares with too little influence to affect any changes in the company.
 Through a similar structure, the three men exert control of Nextera, which was intended to be a big consulting company. Their support for the sale of the consulting business, Lexecon, makes the outcome of the vote on Friday a certainty.
 What is not clear is what they will do next with Nextera, which will have no operating business and will be in jeopardy of having its stock delisted. The Nasdaq stock market has notified the company that it could lose its listing on the Nasdaq small-capitalization market as soon as Nov. 30.
 Michael P. Muldowney, the chief financial officer and chief operating officer, said Nextera had hired an investment bank, Harch Capital Management, to search for a private business worth $30 million to $70 million that it could acquire. 
 Joseph Harch, the founder of Harch Capital Management, which operates hedge funds in Boca Raton, Fla., is an old ally of Michael Milken. He was an executive at Drexel Burnham Lambert when Michael Milken ran that firm's junk-bond trading operation in the 1980's. Mr. Harch consulted with Nextera on its decision to sell Lexecon to FTI.
 The sale would put an end to what began as a big idea: to build a one-stop shop for companies that need advice on staffing and technology and expert views on economic and legal matters. The company was one of the last underwritten by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, the Wall Street firm acquired in 2000 by Credit Suisse First Boston. Its prospects were trumpeted by analysts at several brokerage firms, including Banc of America Securities, Robertson Stephens and Thomas Weisel Partners.
 But within two years of the company's stock sale, the market swooned and the economy faltered, curtailing demand for such advice. The share price plunged below $1 and analysts stopped recommending the stock.
 "The technology spending drop-off in 2001 resulted in the company needing to revisit its strategy," Mr. Muldowney said in a telephone interview yesterday. "In part it was a realization," he added, that "technology spending was not going to rebound anytime soon."
 Mr. Muldowney said that he did not know what type of business the company might buy but added that he did not expect the controlling shareholders to make a splash by pumping more money into the shell of Nextera and using it to buy a notable business.
 "The ambition is relatively modest," he said. "Businesses are valued higher in a public vehicle than in a private vehicle. Our intent would be to buy a private company and have it be valued like a public company."
 He said the company had chosen not to return the cash to shareholders and shut down Nextera because it would lose the potential value of the $30 million in tax losses the company had accumulated. Those losses could be used to offset any future taxable gains made by the company.
 Those tax losses and about $17 million in cash are all Nextera expects to have left after selling the consulting business for $130 million. About $90 million would go to pay off debts and other obligations, the company said. Another $23 million would go to company officials, including Daniel R. Fischel, the chairman and chief executive. 
 Though Nextera may no longer be in the consulting business, the company would owe noncompete payments of $10 million each to Mr. Fischel and Dennis W. Carlton, a senior consultant to Lexecon, Mr. Muldowney said. It has already made a separate $5 million noncompete payment this year to Mr. Fischel, who is a professor of law and business at the University of Chicago and a vocal defender of Mr. Milken's reputation.
 Mr. Fischel wrote a 1995 book that argued that Mr. Milken was not guilty of any crimes, even though he pleaded guilty to six felonies and served two years in prison. Its title is "Payback: The Conspiracy to Destroy Michael Milken and His Financial Revolution" (HarperBusiness).

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "Win One, Lose One"LeapFrog, a company backed by Michael Milken was one of the hottest new stocks last year. But he has had less luck with Nextera. Graph tracks weekly closing stock price (since each company went public) for LeapFrog Enterprises and Nextera Enterprises from 1999-2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); DELISTINGS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CONSULTANTS 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); NEXTERA ENTERPRISES INC (58%); FTI CONSULTING INC (57%); LEAPFROG ENTERPRISES INC (56%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEXTERA ENTERPRISES; FTI CONSULTING INC; LEAPFROG ENTERPRISES 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); FCN (NYSE) (57%); LF (NYSE) (56%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (94%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (89%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; MILKEN, MICHAEL; MILKEN, LOWELL; ELLISON, LAWRENCE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



283 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Still mired in problems, the Interpublic Group posts a larger third-quarter loss than last year.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE daunting challenges that still confront the Interpublic Group of Companies in New York as it struggles to effect a turnaround were underlined yesterday in red ink -- pots of red ink.
 Interpublic reported a wider third-quarter loss, the biggest for any quarter in two years, on higher costs for layoffs, an accelerated revamping, write-offs for troubled operations and the potential settlement of shareholder lawsuits. 
 Interpublic, the world's second-largest agency company, behind the Omnicom Group, has been burdened for more than a year with poor results stemming from operational difficulties and accounting irregularities, compounded by the slow revival of demand for advertising services. The problems suffered by Interpublic have ranged from a meltdown in its share price and a reduction in its credit ratings to an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and a shake-up in the executive suite.
 The third-quarter net loss was $327.1 million, more than three times the $89.6 million lost in the period a year ago. The loss would have been larger had it not been for a gain of $89.1 million, or 23 cents a share, from the sale to Taylor Nelson Sofres of a division known as NFO Worldwide, now treated by Interpublic as a discontinued operation. 
 On a continuing-operations basis, Interpublic lost $416.2 million in the third quarter, compared with $96.4 million in the period a year earlier.
 Revenue for Interpublic, which owns agencies likeDeutsch, Lowe & Partners Worldwide and McCann-Erickson, rose 2.3 percent, to $1.42 billion, from $1.39 billion in the third quarter of 2002. That gain was aided by a favorable currency exchange; without it, revenue would have declined 2.4 percent.
 For the first nine months, Interpublic had a net loss of $349.2 million on revenue of $4.2 billion, in contrast to net income of $79.2 million, or 21 cents a share, also on revenue of $4.2 billion, a year earlier.
 Organic revenue growth, or increased business from existing clients, fell 1.7 percent in the third quarter. Interpublic is making this measure an increasingly important part of its recovery efforts, and while the decline was troubling, it was less than forecast by some analysts, who predicted a drop of as much as 2.6 percent.
 "The decline is not as bad as it has been," said Michael Russell, media analyst at Morgan Stanley, who took part in a conference call in which Interpublic executives discussed the results. "But the restructuring charges and the impairment charges keep coming, and that's disturbing," Mr. Russell said.
 Interpublic's chief executive, David A. Bell, and the chief operating officer, Christopher J. Coughlin, "are managing expectations and working hard," Mr. Russell said, "but they have a tough job in front of them. The stock market is hoping and expecting they can pull it off, but it's very hard."
 That was acknowledged by the Interpublic executives at several points during the call. Twice Mr. Bell used the word "messy" to describe the third-quarter report, while Mr. Coughlin called the results "clearly not acceptable."
 Both said they expected the turnaround of Interpublic, which works for blue-chip clients like Coca-Cola, General Motors and Unilever, would take two to three years. It is an estimate they used previously in individual and group discussions with analysts, but apparently not before in a conference call.
 "They sure keep us busy," Alexia Quadrani, a managing director at Bear Stearns & Company, who took part in the call, said of Mr. Bell and Mr. Coughlin.
 She termed the outlook for Interpublic "mixed," citing as "negative surprises" a good-will impairment charge, or write-down, of $221 million related to Octagon Worldwide, the troubled Interpublic sports-marketing division, and an increased estimate for revamping costs of $250 million -- including $57.1 million in the third quarter -- compared with a previous estimate of $200 million.
 "It's just a long, messy turnaround process," Ms. Quadrani said, "but it's good the company is putting all these issues out there and quantifying them." She also cited the better-than-predicted performance in organic revenue growth, which was stronger in the United States than overseas, as a positive development, along with Mr. Coughlin's steps to "wipe the slate clean and put numbers on the overhangs -- but they're big overhangs."
 One such overhang is a charge of $127.6 million to cover the potential cost of settling the shareholder litigation. Those lawsuits were filed in recent months after Interpublic was unexpectedly forced to restate years of financial results three times because of accounting irregularities. Interpublic plans to pay the settlements, if they are required, mostly in stock rather than cash, which is atypical but not unprecedented.
 "It's a bit unusual, but it's manageable," Ms. Quadrani said, though the dollar amount "was at the higher end of expectations."
 Mr. Russell said it was "comforting to have an estimate of the legal settlement that specific," though paying it principally in stock "could be discouraging for equity holders," whose stakes may be diluted.
 The focus on organic revenue growth, Mr. Russell said, was encouraging, particularly because as Interpublic continues to lay off employees, it signals preparation for a time when hiring will again become necessary. Mr. Coughlin estimated that the Interpublic employee total of 43,500 in September was down about 4,000, or 8.4 percent, from September 2002.
 In the conference call, Mr. Bell, who outlined a plan in May to improve organic revenue growth that included the hiring of Kevin Allen as chief growth officer, described some of the results. Interpublic, which has long lagged Omnicom and the WPP Group in cooperation among agencies to keep and attract clients, has "over 50 collaborative initiatives under way with 22 units working together," Mr. Bell said. He estimated the additional revenue to be derived at $25 million to $30 million at an annualized rate.
 Among the clients that gave additional assignments to Interpublic in the quarter were John Deere, Pennzoil, Samsung and the Wood Industry Council. Also, several marketers hired Interpublic agencies during the quarter after the agencies made collaborative pitches to win those accounts, among them the Voom unit of Cablevision Systems and the Macy's division of Federated Department Stores.
 "Cultural change is not easy and quick," Mr. Bell said, "going from a collection of companies to connecting companies for client benefit." Interpublic has a history as a warren of fiefs cobbled together from acquisitions and led by executives loath to cooperate with their counterparts at sibling agencies.
 "Our focus is on organic growth," Mr. Bell pledged. "We have abandoned the acquisition culture."
 That is not surprising, given the details of other messes left over from that culture as described in the conference call. Among them: a cash charge of $24.8 million to retire loans with high interest rates and a noncash charge of $29.7 million relating to investments in companies in which Interpublic holds minority stakes.
 Though organic revenue growth declined, Interpublic agencies still landed assignments during the quarter with billings estimated at $850 million, including accounts from AARP, the KFC division of Yum Brands, Orange and Pfizer. Those gains offset accounts lost from marketers like Coca-Cola and Marriott International.
 Shares of Interpublic rose yesterday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $15.65, up 26 cents. The stock fell $1.02, or 6 percent, to $15.39 in trading on Monday on concerns that the third-quarter report would include news of large losses. The net loss was the biggest since the third quarter of 2001, when Interpublic lost a restated $482.4 million after a revamping after its acquisition of True North Communications. Though Interpublic stock is well above its 52-week low of $7.20, it is still trading below its 52-week high of $16.50.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David A. Bell said Interpublic's third-quarter report was messy. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (56%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (56%); LITIGATION (56%); CURRENCIES (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (90%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; BELL, DAVID A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



284 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Hold The Vitriol 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Considering the savagery with which the Snarling Right excoriated President Clinton as a "sociopath," blocked judicial appointments, undermined U.S. military operations from Kosovo to Iraq, hounded Vincent Foster and then accused the Clintons of murdering him, it is utterly hypocritical for conservatives to complain about liberal incivility.
 But they're right. 
 Liberals have now become as intemperate as conservatives, and the result -- everybody shouting at everybody else -- corrodes the body politic and is counterproductive for Democrats themselves. My guess is that if the Democrats stay angry, then they'll offend Southern white guys, with or without pickups and flags, and lose again. 
A new report from the Pew Research Center says that America is more polarized now than at any time since its polling series began in 1987. Partly that's because it used to be just the Republicans who were intense in their beliefs, while now both sides are frothing.
The latest Progressive magazine features the article "Call Me a Bush-Hater," and The New Republic earlier published "The Case for Bush Hatred."
I see the fury in my e-mail messages. In a fairly typical comment, one reader suggested that President Bush and his aides are "lying, cynical greedy pirates who deserve no better than a firing squad." At this rate, soon we'll all be so rabid that Ann Coulter will seem normal.
I worry about the polarization partly because I'm afraid that America is now transforming into something like Old Europe, the political moonscape that I remember when I was a student in England in the 1980's.
Two friends, both named Chris, epitomized Britain to me back then. Right-wing Chris was an an ardent Conservative from the south, a graduate of an exclusive private school; left-wing Chris was a working-class bloke from the north, a Labor Party supporter from a state school. Right-wing Chris read The Telegraph; left-wing Chris read The Guardian.
That was pretty typical of the tribalism of Old Europe. Left and right came from different social classes, lived in different areas, attended different schools and despised each other.
Since then, Europe has matured and become much less polarized -- becoming more like (Old) America. And unfortunately the U.S. is transforming itself into the classic European pattern of reinforcing cleavages. A red state/blue state divide overlaps an evangelical/secular divide and a Fox News/Al Franken divide.
The most striking cleavage is the God Gulf, and it should terrify the Democrats. Put simply, liberals are becoming more secular at a time when America is becoming increasingly religious, the consequence of a new Great Awakening. Americans, for example, are significantly more likely now than in 1987 to say they "completely agree" that "prayer is an important part of my daily life" and that "we all will be called before God on Judgment Day to answer for our sins."
The Pew survey found that white evangelicals are leaving the Democratic Party in droves. Fifteen years ago, white evangelicals were split equally between the two parties; now they're twice as likely to be Republicans. Likewise, white Catholics who attend Mass regularly used to be strongly Democratic; now they are more likely to be Republican.
Since Americans are three times as likely to believe in the virgin birth of Jesus as in evolution, liberal derision for President Bush's religious beliefs risks marginalizing the left. 
Anyone who isn't concerned by the growing political incivility in this country doesn't remember how the antagonisms in Europe became so caustic that they often blocked governance (not to mention triggered civil wars in Spain and Greece). Already, in this country the public vitriol discourages public service.
The left should have learned from Newt Gingrich that rage impedes understanding -- and turns off voters. That's why President Bush was careful in 2000, unlike many in hisparty, to project amiability and optimism.
Core Democratic voters are becoming so angry that some are hoping for bad economic figures and bad Iraq news just to hurt President Bush. At this rate, Democrats risk turning themselves into an American version of the old British Labor Party under Michael Foot, which reliably blasted the Tory government and reliably lost elections. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); RELIGION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); AL FRANKEN (56%) KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); IRAQ (92%); ENGLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



285 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: New College Programs Reflect a Renewed Interest in Africa 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
After decades of looking the other way, colleges and universities are beginning to show interest in Africa.
 Adventurous students are studying in Ghana, South Africa and other sub-Saharan countries. Colleges are adding courses in Swahili and African filmmaking. Public health professors are trying to help combat AIDS in Africa, while political scientists seek to make sense out of the way national governments there are torn apart and reborn. 
 At Princeton, faculty members in African studies have increased to 20 from 12 just six years ago, and the faculty and alumni created Princeton-in-Africa, a program that places students and recent graduates in nongovernmental organizations there. 
"The politics are very interesting, not because they are nice but because they are so consequential," said Jeffrey Herbst, a political scientist at Princeton. "To say that the leader of Zimbabwe has driven millions of people into malnutrition in a country that should be exporting food is unbelievable. No matter how you feel about George Bush, you can't say he has affected people like that."
Such issues are drawing in scholars like the economist Jeffrey Sachs, head of Columbia University's Earth Institute and a United Nations adviser, who said, "From the point of view of economic development, Africa is the most challenging place in the world."
And some academics say that Africa challenges their skills and what they think they know.
"Africa makes us look stupid," said Robert H. Bates, a political scientist at Harvard. "It makes us realize that our assumptions require re-examination and reformulation."
But, he said, many college administrators still see the field as "uninteresting" or "in outer space somewhere" and make it a low priority. "It never occurred to them that one reason to have it was that it had a lot to say about language, literature, arts and social sciences," he said, and studying Africa can "challenge the fundamentals in a lot of fields in very productive ways."
Professors say most of the interest in Africa comes from white students. 
"Many of our students were demanding something different," said Yaw Nyarko, vice provost for globalization and multiculturalism at New York University. "They've been to Europe and want to go somewhere different."
But interest is also growing among black students, some of whom previously showed ambivalence toward Africa. "As I went around to entice students to study abroad," Professor Nyarko said, "some of them asked, 'How about a site in the motherland?' "
More than 4,500 American students went to South Africa, Kenya, Ghana and other African nations in 2000-2001, up 14 percent from the previous year and nearly five times the number in 1990, according to the Institute of International Education's "Open Doors" report. (The 2000-2001 figures are the most recent available.)
These students represent a small share of the students going abroad, but one that is growing. In 1990, only 1.3 percent of the 71,000 United States students who studied abroad went to Africa; by 2001, they represented almost 3 percent of the total, which had grown to 154,000.
"Student interest has been running ahead of institutional commitment at most universities," said Professor Bates. 
"Students see it through all sorts of lenses," he said, "ecology, humanitarian relief, refugee problems." 
For Caroline N. Carter, a Princeton senior from Houston working toward a certificate in African studies, it was a book she read the summer before college -- "The Power of One," a novel set in South Africa -- that kindled her interest. That led her to take African politics in her first year at Princeton and to a semester at the University of Cape Town during her junior year. Now she is working on a senior thesis about how the Rwandan government is handling security for the Tutsis, and hopes to visit Rwanda for research and to work in Africa after graduation.
"I found everything about the issues and countries that we studied fascinating," she said, speaking of her African politics class. "It was a welcome change from all of the European and American history that I have been studying all my life."
As a public policy major, she said, she was also struck by watching a new democracy "working out the kinks and discovering its own potential." 
This is not the first time scholars have turned their attention to Africa. Forty years ago, American academics flocked there, caught up in the euphoria of budding democracies and financed by a cold-war American government eager to build its influence there. But enthusiasm waned as nascent democracies gave way to warfare and corruption, and previously hospitable nations turned dangerous.
"African studies has never had the cachet or support that either Latin American studies or Asian studies has had," said Alison Bernstein, a vice president at the Ford Foundation, which has long supported work in Africa. "But now there is a renewed wave of democratization. The terrible African genocides and AIDS epidemic cannot be ignored. And the African-American community in the United States is more willing to probe its African identity."
When Henry Louis Gates Jr., chairman of Harvard's African-American studies department, made the case to transform the unit into the Department of African and African-American Studies at a faculty meeting last May, he said undergraduate student interest in African studies had been growing steadily.
Some Africa experts dismissed Harvard's action as a way for the university to hold onto Dr. Gates after Cornel West and K. Anthony Appiah, two other prominent professors in his department, left for Princeton. But Harvard officials said that Harvard's president, Lawrence S. Summers, had already been trying to expand African work at the university.
Interviews with African studies professors around the country found that many colleges and universities have added classes or programs.
At Princeton, professors and students meet weekly in an "indaba" (the word means gathering in Ndebele) to discuss African affairs and research. Although meetings are held at 8 a.m., a recent gathering drew more than two dozen participants, who talked about the growth of the Princeton African students group, a forthcoming African film series and the possibility of sponsoring top students from refugee camps at American colleges.
Emmanuel Kreike, a history professor who heads the African Studies program, said the faculty members come from a range of departments, including history, political science and ecology and evolutionary biology.
"This is a pretty large group," he said. "But it's by chance, really, not by plan."
Eve Sandberg, a political scientist at Oberlin, recalls that when she was working on her Ph.D. in the late 1980's, several advisers told her not to focus exclusively on Africa "because the continent was considered low status in terms of U.S. foreign policy concerns," and her job offers would reflect that.
Now, however, the end of apartheid and other changes in South Africa and increasing stability in other sub-Saharan nations are reopening doors on the continent and making African studies hot. 
Without African studies departments, most hiring of African experts is coincidental -- a new hire in history or political science may also focus on Africa. But when colleges do try to add Africa experts, the field is "highly competitive," said Nancy Dye, the president of Oberlin College. 
Colleges are also wondering how they will pay for new professors to respond to student interest, since financing is not growing.
Richard Joseph, director of the African studies program at Northwestern University, said the United States government has made little effort to develop what he calls "this tremendous academic resource," adding, "There is still a great gap between the policy makers and the academic community."
But African experts say things are looking up in other ways. Dr. Sandberg, of Oberlin, said students in her courses are more sophisticated now than when she started teaching in the late 1980's and works by African authors are also more widely available. A class of 35 students, she said, might include 6 who have spent time in Africa.
"Once students visit Africa, they generally have a less romantic notion of the continent and want to learn more and stay connected," Dr. Sandberg said. "They realize that many of the things they are studying are not intellectual abstractions but are life and death issues for real people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Uganda, Chinook McLean, a Princeton graduate, worked with children in a sports program organized by Right to Play. Her visit was arranged by Princeton-in-Africa, one of a rising number of programs with an African focus at U.S. colleges. Chart: "Africa Bound"The percentage of American college students studying in Africa has grown steadily amid increased academic interest in the continent. 1985-86ALL STUDY ABROAD: 48,483PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 1.1% 1987-88ALL STUDY ABROAD: 62,341PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 1.2 1989-90ALL STUDY ABROAD: 70,727PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 1.3 1991-92ALL STUDY ABROAD: 71,154PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 1.8 1993-94ALL STUDY ABROAD: 76,302PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 1.9 1994-95ALL STUDY ABROAD: 84,403PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.2 1995-96ALL STUDY ABROAD: 89,242PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.3 1996-97ALL STUDY ABROAD: 99,448PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.6 1997-98ALL STUDY ABROAD: 113,959PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.7 1998-99ALL STUDY ABROAD: 129,770PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.8 1999-00ALL STUDY ABROAD: 143,590PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.8 2000-01ALL STUDY ABROAD: 154,168PERCENTAGE IN AFRICA: 2.9 (Source by Institute of International Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); AIDS & HIV (57%) Colleges and Universities; Foreign Study, Teaching and Travel; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (99%); GHANA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); UGANDA (79%); KENYA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003 



286 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Justices Mull Twist in Law On Age Bias 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
When Congress made it illegal 36 years ago for employers to discriminate on the basis of age, it was clear that older workers were protected from discriminatory treatment that favored those who were younger. The question in a Supreme Court argument on Wednesday was whether the Age Discrimination in Employment Act also meant the reverse: if Congress in addition meant to prohibit policies that favor older workers over younger ones.
 The plain language of the statute suggests one interpretation, while the context in which the law was enacted in 1967 suggests the opposite. An employer shall not discriminate against someone "because of such individual's age," the law reads, without specifying "older age" or "younger age." The law's protection begins at age 40 and has no upper limit. 
 "The real issue here is whether this court should add an additional element" and treat the law as if it read "because of their older age," Mark W. Biggerman, a lawyer for a group of younger workers at General Dynamics plants in Ohio and Pennsylvania, told the court. He urged the court to avoid a judicial rewriting of the statute. "Congress's goal here was to make age a neutral factor in employment," Mr. Biggerman said.
In 1997, General Dynamics negotiated an agreement with the United Automobile Workers eliminating medical benefits that current employees would have received in retirement. The agreement allowed an exception, though, for employees who turned 50 by July 1 of that year. Some 200 workers between the ages of 40 and 50 filed suit on the ground that the new plan, which they were too young to benefit from, discriminated against them because of age.
The Federal District Court in Cleveland dismissed the suit, but the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, reinstated it on the ground that the law's protection ran in both directions. The Sixth Circuit was the first appeals court to interpret the law to permit a lawsuit of this kind.
The company appealed to the Supreme Court, warning that the consequences of this new interpretation would prove highly unsettling to management and labor alike. Indeed, General Dynamics came to the court with the support of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and several individual labor unions, as well as the United States Chamber of Commerce and other groups representing management.
The age discrimination act "should not be stretched" to invalidate a plan aimed at protecting the interest of older workers, the company's lawyer, Donald B. Verrilli Jr., told the court. 
"The truth of the matter," he said, "is that the word 'age' is something of a chameleon that has different connotations depending on the context." In the current context, Mr. Verrilli said, if Congress had really meant to prohibit "youth discrimination," it was "exceedingly strange" to have chosen 40 as the age at which the law's protection begins. Rather, it is at age 40 that people begin to have a problem in being perceived as too old, he said.
Most of the justices appeared persuaded by Mr. Verrilli's argument, even Justice Antonin Scalia, perhaps the judiciary's best-known proponent of interpreting statutes according to their precise terms.
"So what happens is that a piece of legislation that everyone thought was meant to aid older workers, especially at the end of their working careers, ends up harming them," Justice Scalia said with evident disapproval to Mr. Biggerman, the plaintiffs' lawyer. 
The Bush administration entered the case, General Dynamics Land Systems Inc. v. Cline, No. 02-1080, on the younger workers' side to defend a longstanding interpretation of the statute by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the federal agency that administers it. 
Interpreting the law to protect the young as well as the old "is perfectly consistent with the idea that stereotypes should play no role" in the workplace, Paul D. Clement, a deputy solicitor general, told the court.
The justices also issued their first formal decision of the term Wednesday morning, unanimously upholding the Social Security Administration's definition of disability.
In an opinion by Justice Scalia, the court held that as long as an applicant for disability benefits can still perform a previous job, the applicant will not be considered disabled even if the old job has become obsolete and is no longer available.
In this case, Barnhart v. Thomas, No. 02-763, the applicant, Pauline Thomas, was a 53-year-old elevator operator who sought disability benefits for heart and back problems after her job was eliminated. The justices overturned a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, which had held that the ability to perform a previous job should not be disqualifying if the previous job no longer exists in the national economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (92%); OLDER WORKERS (91%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); ELDER LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%) LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; FRINGE BENEFITS; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS 

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



287 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 28 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 GOLD CLIMBS. Gold futures increased on signs that Europe's economy was rebounding. In New York, gold for December delivery rose $6.80, or 1.8 percent, to $395 an ounce.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks gold prices (near-month contract), since 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); TRENDS (85%) GOLD; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



288 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Botswana's Brain Drain Cripples War on AIDS 

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration shapes its plan to combat AIDS in Africa, Botswana's president, Festus G. Mogae, said Wednesday that one of the biggest obstacles to a rapid expansion of treatment for people with AIDS in his country is not so much a lack of money or drugs as a dearth of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other health workers.
 The nonprofit groups, foreign governments and international organizations that have come to help Botswana cope with its AIDS crisis have hired away many skilled health professionals in the country's public health system with offers of better pay and benefits, he said. 
 Mr. Mogae, who spoke at a day-long conference on the lessons of Botswana's experience sponsored by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research organization in Washington, said this internal brain drain had been compounded by the departure of doctors and nurses for other countries. Britain alone has recruited more than 120 of Botswana's nurses, Mr. Mogae said. 
Botswana, where more than a third of adults in their prime are infected with H.I.V., the virus the causes AIDS, has sought to counter the loss of talent by recruiting health professionals from poorer African countries, which have their own AIDS crises, as well as from India and Cuba. "We'll be lucky if we get them," Mr. Mogae said at a news conference on Wednesday.
The shortage of people and a slower-than-expected pace in building clinics, laboratories and drug warehouses have delayed the expansion of Botswana's AIDS program. 
It has been almost two years since Botswana -- one of the most prosperous, well-run countries in Africa -- began a national effort to provide free drug treatment to the estimated 110,000 people who need it. 
So far only about 10,000 people are getting the help -- far fewer than Mr. Mogae had expected.
Botswana is paying for 70 percent of its AIDS program and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Merck Company Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the pharmaceutical company, have each donated $50 million. 
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, in introducing Mr. Mogae, hailed his outspoken leadership on AIDS in Botswana and noted Mr. Mogae's decision to publicly announce that he had been tested for H.I.V. Dr. Frist, who visited Botswana this year with a delegation of senators, said, "We can't underestimate the need for knowledgeable people."
President Bush has committed to a five-year, $15 billion AIDS plan for Africa and the Caribbean, more than half of it for drug treatment. Congress is expected to appropriate about $2 billion this year.
Dr. Ernest Darkoh, operational manager for Botswana's effort to expand treatment with antiretroviral drugs, said the loss of skilled people to the government's private partners, who can pay 5 to 10 times as much as the government, was a serious problem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (98%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); AIDS POLICY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (85%); ANTIVIRALS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: GATES, BILL AND MELINDA, FOUNDATION; MERCK COMPANY FOUNDATION 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL GATES (50%) DUGGER, CELIA W; MOGAE, FESTUS G (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BOTSWANA (94%); AFRICA (94%); INDIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) BOTSWANA; INDIA; CUBA

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



289 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
European Regulators Meet With Microsoft on Software
Microsoft stuck to the defense it has presented before to European antitrust regulators as it opened a three-day hearing in Brussels into whether the company is illegally abusing its dominance in operating software.
 The meeting with regulators from the European Commission is the final phase of an investigation that has dragged on for nearly five years. Success for Microsoft would be to find a settlement, like the one it reached with the Bush administration last year, that would allow the company to continue to do business much as it has done before. Page C3. 

Lipitor Best in a Cholesterol Study
Atorvastatin, or Lipitor, the cholesterol-lowering drug made by Pfizer, proved more effective than pravastatin, or Pravachol, made by Bristol-Myers Squibb, according to a study sponsored by Pfizer. A1.

Ryanair Braces for a Rejection
Michael O'Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, expects the European Commission to rule against an agreement that provided discounted landing fees for the airline at Charleroi Airport south of Brussels. His comments were based on feedback received from sources within the commission. A ruling against the airline could damage Ryanair's strategy of flying to secondary airports with lower fees. World Business, Section W.

Some Challenges for Medicare Deal
House and Senate leaders said that they had reached a tentative agreement on a bill to provide prescription drug benefits to the elderly, but many Democrats spurned it, saying that parts of the deal would weaken the traditional government-run Medicare program. A28.

On-Demand Services Helps I.B.M.
Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said the company generated $7 billion in orders in the last year for its the "on demand" computing services. C2.

HealthSouth Sentences Expected
A federal judge is expected to impose sentences today on five former HealthSouth employees who have admitted that they helped manipulate the company's books. C5.

Profit Fell 37% at Federated
Third-quarter profit at Federated Department Stores, the parent of Macy's and Bloomingdale's, fell 37 percent because of costs from closing and combining stores. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.3 percent, the first gain in 11 quarters. The company is renovating stores and adding the Macy's name to the regional chains to revive sales. C7.

Major Stock Gauges Rise Sharply
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 111.04 points, to 9,848.83. The Nasdaq composite index was up 42.36 points, to 1,973.11, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 11.96 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,058.53. C10.

A $1.38 Billion Loss at Loews
Loews reported a $1.38 billion loss after taking charges to increase reserves for claims at its CNA Financial insurance unit. C9.

More Male Bastions Fall
More women are starting businesses to do home renovations and auto repair, tapping into fears by other women of letting men into their homes. It is part of a female invasion of trades once male preserves. Small Business. C8.

Why Jobs Were So Late
Why did it take so long after the latest recession for jobs to start appearing? Productivity growth is not the only culprit. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,848.83 up 111.04Nasdaq composite -- 1,973.11 up 42.3610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.40% down 0.05The euro -- $1.1633 up 0.0124The dollar -- 108.75 yen up 0.08 Graph "TODAY" shows the balance of trade from Mar.-Aug. 2003.September figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$40.4 billion Graph tracks the share price of Federated Department Stores since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MEDICARE (87%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); AIRPORT OPERATION (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CHOLESTEROL (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); RETAIL SALES (66%); RETAILERS (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); SAME STORE SALES (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (84%); MACY'S INC (68%); PFIZER INC (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (53%); CNA FINANCIAL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (84%); RYA (LSE) (84%); M (NYSE) (68%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); HLS (NYSE) (53%); CNA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (68%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (53%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (53%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (53%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%) BELGIUM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



290 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: China Lowers the Wall for U.S. Cars andParts 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM and KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
In a move to quell criticism of its huge trade surplus with the United States, China agreed to let the Big Three automakers send it about 15,000 cars and trucks over the next couple of years as well as more than $1 billion in parts from General Motors, the companies said Wednesday.
 China also said that it would allow G.M. to import cars directly, without using a local partner, and G.M. said it was moving into the auto lending business in China. 
 The deals with G.M., the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group were among a flurry of import allowances, including large wheat and aircraft purchases, that were expected from China ahead of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao's visit to the United States, scheduled for early December. 
China has been criticized by United States officials, most recently Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, for not living up to commitments to lower trade barriers that it made after joining the World Trade Organization. The deals announced on Wednesday come a year before the deadline for China to make such concessions under terms of its W.T.O. membership. 
China has the largest and the fastest-growing trade deficit with the United States, exceeding $100 billion last year. The Chinese government's recent efforts to narrow that surplus mirror moves by Japanese officials to line up deals ahead of state visits during trade tensions between the United States and Japan in the 1980's. 
Auto executives see China as the world's hottest car market, both the fastest growing and the one with the most room to grow, and the executives are eager to promote their good relations with the Chinese. 
"I'd like to commend the Chinese government for their commitment to open Chinese markets," said Phil Murtaugh, chairman and chief executive of the General Motors China Group, at a news conference Wednesday before a signing ceremony with Chinese officials. 
"The opportunities in China today are tremendous," he added. "China has the world's fastest-growing economy, the world's fastest-growing middle class and the world's fastest-growing vehicle market."
Manufacturers, who have too much capacity in the United States and Europe, are struggling to keep up with the torrid growth in China, where vehicle sales rose 69 percent in the first three quarters of this year compared with the period in 2002. 
The auto allowances, though relatively small for a market expected to sell four million vehicles this year, are a substantial increase from minuscule levels now permitted by the Chinese government. Currently, the vehicles that non-Chinese automakers sell in China are almost entirely made with Chinese joint venture partners, an arrangement that has led to piracy problems, particularly for G.M. 
G.M. said it had reached a deal to add $1.3 billion worth of exports to China, cumulatively, in 2004 and 2005. Over the last seven years, the company's North American exports to China, coming mostly from the United States, totaled $1.4 billion, almost entirely in parts and machinery rather than finished cars. 
G.M. will export 5,500 fully assembled vehicles and an additional 13,000 vehicle kits for rapid assembly in China. Many of the vehicles will be Cadillacs as the company introduces the brand to a market with a rapidly expanding middle class. The bulk of the agreement, though, is $700 million worth of parts for Buicks that will be assembled in Shanghai. 
The Chinese government will also allow G.M. to set up a subsidiary that can import vehicles directly; currently, foreign automakers have to enlist Chinese companies to import their vehicles, increasing costs. 
Under the agreement, G.M. will be allowed to test the Cadillac brand in China before committing itself to build them there. The company already sells Buick sedans and minivans and Chevrolet Blazer sport utility vehicles in China. 
Zhong Shi, an automotive marketing consultant in Shanghai, said Cadillacs were a good choice because the luxury market was the strongest now in China, as newly wealthy Chinese seek ways to display their success.
"They have a special taste for the big car," Mr. Zhong said.
The Ford Motor Company and DaimlerChrysler declined to set a value on the new exports to China. But Ford said it had a deal to export 5,250 vehicles to China next year, and DaimlerChrysler said it would export 4,500 Chrysler and Mercedes models made in the United States.
G.M. also said today that its financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, applied to start making car loans in China with a Chinese partner. G.M. has been working for more than two years to win permission to offer car loans and leases in China through its G.M.A.C. subsidiary, competing with the Chinese banks that have dominated this business since its infancy four years ago. 
China only recently issued regulations allowing automakers to finance their own sales, and it is still working out the details of approving the applications of automakers to write loans and leases.
Bankruptcy and foreclosure regulations are also still being drafted, making it a difficult business.
For now, four-fifths of the people buying cars in China do not borrow money for the purchase. "They come with cash and put the money on the table," said Christian Weidemann, the director for financial services at G.M. China.
As automakers struggle to keep up with demand, they are building so many factories that executives and consultants expect a glut within the next several years. G.M. began operating its modern factory in Shanghai with three shifts of employees working around the clock in August, with only very short breaks between shifts for the maintenance of machinery. 
"A brutal war of attrition will kick in in the next five years," said Michael Dunne, the president of Automotive Resources Asia Ltd., a consulting firm.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day yesterday with an article about agreements by the Big Three automakers to export cars and parts to China reversed the identities of two General Motors executives. The company's chairman, Rick Wagoner, was at the right; Gary Cowger, a vice president, was at the left.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Wagoner, left, chairman of G.M., and Gary Cowger, right, a G.M vice president, met yesterday with Ma Xiuhong, China's vice minister of commerce, to announce a deal for selling more American cars in China. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%) AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%) GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%); RICK WAGONER (56%) HAKIM, DANNY; BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



291 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Profit Falls at Federated Stores 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Federated Department Stores, the owner of Macy's and Bloomingdale's, said yesterday that its fiscal third-quarter profit fell 37 percent because of costs from closing and combining stores. 
 The company said, though, that it had halted a three-year slide in sales at stores open at least a year. 
 Net income dropped to $67 million, or 36 cents a share, from $106 million, or 54 cents, in the period a year earlier, when Federated had a gain from the sale of its Fingerhut unit. 
Revenue in the quarter, ended Nov. 1, increased less than 1 percent, to $3.49 billion. 
Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.3 percent, the first gain in 11 quarters. Federated's chief executive, Terry J. Lundgren, is renovating stores and adding the Macy's name to the Bon Marche, Burdines, Lazarus and Goldsmith's regional chains, hoping to harness the company's best-known name to revive sales. Shoppers have been shifting spending to discount chains like Kohl's.
"We're at the point where the macroissues are starting to resolve themselves," said Brian Eisenbarth of Davidson Investment Advisers. "Now that we're turning the corner, we'll be able to see who's not participating in the recovery."
Shares of Federated fell 52 cents yesterday, to $49.65. They reached a 52-week high on Tuesday and have gained more than 72 percent this year.
The company, based in Cincinnati, had been expected to earn 35 cents a share by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. Analysts raised the estimate last week after Federated said profit would be higher than forecast.
"We believe this indicates some strengthening in the economy, as well as improvement in our own performance," the chief financial officer, Karen M. Hoguet, said in a conference call with analysts.
Bloomingdale's had the strongest sales, Ms. Hoguet said. Federated said it planned to open a five-level Bloomingdale's store in San Francisco in 2006, its first in the city.
Federated had $17 million in after-tax costs to close some stores and combine its Macy's stores with the other chains. It is gradually introducing the Macy's name to avoid alienating customers used to shopping at the old-line department store chains. Federated will start converting its Florida stores on Jan. 31, using the name Burdines-Macy's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%) COMPANY REPORTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: TERRY J LUNDGREN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



292 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Rapid productivity growth probably did not cause slow post-recession job growth.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and a visiting scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation in New York.

 BODY:
THE latest reports from the Labor Department suggest that what might be called the Energizer Bunny recession in the job market -- it just keeps going and going -- might finally have cometo an end. 
 If sustained job growth has indeed arrived, why did it take so long? Although there are no definitive answers, it is possible to piece together some plausible stories and to rule out others. 
 A popular explanation for why it has taken at least 20 months from the official end of the recession for job growth to resume -- seven and a half times as long as the average in other postwar recoveries -- is that exceptionally fast productivity growth made hiring workers unnecessary. On Monday, President Bush endorsed this view, telling BMW workers in Greer, S.C., "You see, high productivity, it creates a short-term problem, unemployment." 
Implicitly, this view argues that for some reason there are limits to how fast the gross domestic product (that is, output of goods and services) can grow, so, by definition, faster labor productivity growth results in slower job growth. 
Many have argued that this predicament afflicted Europe in the 1980's, causing an ailment known as "Euro-sclerosis," or prolonged job stagnation. 
The argument is more plausible in Europe, where government policy restrains entrepreneurship and growth, in part because of limits set by the European Monetary Union. (A forthcoming book by William Lewis, former director of the McKinsey Global Institute, argues that even in Europe productivity growth was not a cause of stagnant job growth.) 
On examination, rapid productivity growth is unlikely to account for the dismal job picture in the United States over the last two and a half years. 
First, there is no reason the gross domestic product could not have grown faster once productivity accelerated. Monetary and fiscal policy have not restrained growth. 
Second, in the United States greater job growth tends to accompany faster productivity growth, over either a quarter or a year, as well as over longer periods. Productivity growth usually surges at the beginning of a recovery, but the job losses are unusual this time. Furthermore, during the second-longest jobless recovery on record, which occurred during the previous Bush administration, productivity growth was lower than it is now, so accelerating productivity is not the only potential cause of a jobless recovery. 
Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard and the National Bureau of Economic Research, raises another possibility: maybe recoveries that follow longer booms have weaker job growth initially because companies postponed restructuring during the boom. Therefore, more time is needed for companies to reorganize work, which spills over into the recovery phase. 
Indeed, the recessions in 1991 and 2001, notable for extended jobless recoveries afterward, both followed long booms. But in the eight earlier postwar recessions, longer booms were typically followed by shorter jobless recoveries, not longer ones. For example, after the recession following the 1960's boom -- the second longest, after the Clinton boom -- job growth resumed immediately. 
Mr. Lewis noted that fiscal, monetary and geopolitical environments are much more uncertain now than they were in the 1990's. "That makes business people run lean and be cautious about investing in new capacity," he said. 
Another factor is that the Bush tax cuts were aimed not specifically at job creation but at consumption and savings. In previous recessions, countercyclical policy was more focused on job creation. For example, President Jimmy Carter introduced the New Jobs Tax Credit, which gave employers a tax rebate if they expanded employment. Studies by the economists Jeffrey M. Perloff, Michael L. Wachter and John Bishop suggested that the tax credit spurred job growth. 
Where will the new jobs come from? This is a question economists grow weary of hearing during recessions. I sometimes respond by asking, "Isn't it remarkable that larger countries have more jobs?" This highlights the role of the work force in job creation, and that, in the long run, employment is largely determined by supply. 
Looking across countries over five-year periods, the growth in the working-age population is a powerful predictor of job growth, especially in the United States. Our strong job growth in the 1990's is also a useful reminder that job growth does eventually resume after recessions, provided the population is growing. 
But predicting the sectors where job growth will occur is another matter. Remember "The Graduate"? The plastics industry, in which Benjamin was advised to pursue a career, has lost 40 percent of its jobs since the movie was released in 1967, contracting even more than the rest of manufacturing. 
Prediction is difficult because the labor market is continually changing. A quarter of all workers are now in occupations that were not listed in the Census Bureau's occupation codes in 1967. 
Even among longstanding occupations, job growth is difficult to predict. A study by Ronald L. Oaxaca and Larry L. Leslie of the University of Arizona, for example, shows that past forecasts of job growth for engineers and scientists turned out to be wildly inaccurate. How could anyone have predicted how an unanticipated event, like the end of the cold war, would affect the demand for engineers and scientists? 
Still, some plausible predictions can be made about job creation. Most important, the skills of the work force will largely determine the mix of jobs people hold, and the standard of living they enjoy. Thus, the projected slowdown in the educational attainment of the work force, unless counteracted, does not bode well. 
Additionally, the projected slowdown in the growth of the working-age population should lead to slower job growth. For this reason, the focus should shift to the growth in jobs per member of the working-age population.
Of course, prediction is difficult. It is possible that we may experience a period of "U.S.-sclerosis," as Ronald Schettkat, an economist at Utrecht University in the Netherlands, suggests in a new study. But such a result is not inevitable and has been averted in the past.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Slower to Recover"Since the last recession, the economy has been slower to generate jobs than after any other recession since World War II. Recession: Nov. 1948 to Oct. 1949Length of period before recession began: 37 monthsMonths until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 0Productivity growth in year after recession: 7.3% Recession: July 1953 to May 1954Length of period before recession began: 45Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 3Productivity growth in year after recession: 5.0 Recession: Aug. 1957 to April 1958Length of period before recession began: 39Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 2Productivity growth in year after recession: 5.3 Recession: April 1960 to Feb. 1961Length of period before recession began: 24Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 2Productivity growth in year after recession: 7.2 Recession: Dec. 1969 to Nov. 1970Length of period before recession began: 106Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 0Productivity growth in year after recession: 3.3 Recession: Nov. 1973 to Mar. 1975Length of period before recession began: 36Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 3Productivity growth in year after recession: 4.6 Recession: Jan. 1980 to July 1980Length of period before recession began: 58Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 0Productivity growth in year after recession: 2.0 Recession: July 1981 to Nov. 1982Length of period before recession began: 12Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 3Productivity growth in year after recession: 4.8 Recession: July 1990 to Mar. 1991Length of period before recession began: 92Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 11Productivity growth in year after recession: 4.1 Recession: Mar. 2001 to Nov. 2001Length of period before recession began: 120Months until the start of sustained job growth after recession: 20*Productivity growth in year after recession: 4.4 *Assumes sustained job growth started in August 2003. (Sources by National Bureau of Economic Research; Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); EURO (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); WORLD WAR II (59%); MONETARY POLICY (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



293 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
European Antitrust OfficeSits Down With Microsoft

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
Microsoft stuck to the defense it has presented before to European antitrust regulators as it opened a three-day hearing on Wednesday into whether the company was illegally abusing its dominance in operating software. 
 The face-to-face meeting with regulators from the European Commission is the final phase of an investigation that has dragged on for nearly five years. Success for Microsoft would be to find a settlement, like the one it reached with the Bush administration last year, that would allow the company to continue to do business much as it has done before. 
 But if the commission finds that Microsoft violated European Union antitrust laws, the company would face a hefty fine and, more important, would be forced to make changes in the way it sells software. 
That prospect has looked increasingly likely since the commission said in August that it thought that Microsoft was continuing to abuse the dominance it has with Windows. A decision is expected early next year.
Despite its apparent uphill battle, Microsoft made no new arguments at the closed hearing on Wednesday, people at the hearing said. 
On his way to the meeting, Microsoft's lead lawyer, Brad Smith, was asked by reporters how confident he was. "Hope springs eternal," he said. In August, the commission said that by bundling its Media Player into its Windows products, Microsoft had put rival audio/video players like RealNetworks' Real One Player and Apple's Quicktime media players at an unfair disadvantage.
By withholding crucial information about Windows code, the commission said Microsoft had prevented rival makers of low-end server software from being able to interoperate with Windows.
Thomas Vinje, a lawyer with the law firm Morrison & Foerster and a representative of a trade group, the Computer and Communications Industry Association, is one of several Microsoft opponents attending the hearing. He said Microsoft spent roughly equal time at the hearing addressing the two specific accusations.
"They repeated the arguments they made in writing to the commission, that Media Player is a natural part of the Windows operating system and that it achieves efficiencies by bundling it into Windows," Mr. Vinje said.
Microsoft, however, did try to broaden the definition of the server software market to include all servers, not just the small-server segment that it dominates, he added. If this argument holds up, it will be harder for the commission to prove that Microsoft has leveraged its dominance of operating PC software into the market for server software.
According to the computer market research firm IDC, Microsoft held 55 percent of the market for servers costing less that $25,000 each in the second quarter of this year in the European Union. Its share of the whole server market in the same quarter was 24 percent.
"During our time today, Microsoft's technical and economic experts presented information on server operating systems and multimedia playback technologies," Microsoft said in a statement shortly after the meeting adjourned. 
Richard Doherty, an independent analyst with the Envisioneering Group, a consulting firm based in Seaford, N.Y., said Microsoft's argument about the size of the server market was correct. "They are right to broaden the definition of the market beyond the low-end servers because all servers compete against each other," Mr. Doherty said.
But Mr. Vinje said that trying to broaden the market to make its own share look smaller was "fanciful."
In August, the commission outlined the remedies it sought. To allow fair competition in the market for server software Microsoft must disclose to rivals enough of the technical code inside Windows to allow competing server software to work as well with Windows as Microsoft's server package does.
To free up the audio and video software market the commission said Microsoft must either unbundle Media Player from Windows and sell it as a standalone product, or it must bundle a rival along with Media Player.
Media Player is used by 15 percent to 20 percent of people in Europe who listen to music or watch video material on their computers, according to IDC -- this despite Media Player being bundled into Windows, which is present on over 90 percent of PC's, said Martin Hingley, a researcher with IDC.
Nevertheless, the unbundling of Media Player is likely to be the toughest obstacle in the way of a settlement between the commission and Microsoft.
The company has insisted in the past that it will not consider unbundling Media Player code from Windows, because to do so would jeopardize the business model it plans to use for many other add-ons it wants to attach to the operating system.
The commission and rivals, on the other hand, have insisted that bundling Media Player into Windows closes the market to competitors.
On Thursday afternoon, competitors, including RealNetworks and Sun Microsystems, as well as a familiar Microsoft foe, the Computer and Communications Industry Association, will take the stand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); MARKET SHARE (63%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP (55%); COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%) EUROPEAN UNION; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



294 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: A New Democracy, Enshrined in Faith 

BYLINE:  By Noah Feldman; Noah Feldman, author of "After Jihad: America and the Struggle for Islamic Democracy," is a law professor at New York University. He was a senior adviser for constitutional law to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq.

 BODY:
In his admirable if overdue speech last week, President Bush acknowledged 60 years of American error and announced a new policy of encouraging democracy rather than dictatorship in the Muslim world. What Mr. Bush neglected to mention was that many Muslims, if freed to make their own democratic choices, will choose Islam over secularism. A case in point is the newly released draft of the Afghan constitution, which enshrines Islamic values even as it guarantees basic liberties.
 The document raises a crucial question that goes well beyond Afghanistan to the Muslim world as a whole: Can a nation be founded on both Islam and democracy without compromising on human rights and equality? 
 If the answer is no, then democratization in places like Iraq and Afghanistan will be a pyrrhic victory -- we will have gotten rid of the Taliban and Saddam Hussein without their former victims actually achieving real freedom. If, however, a synthesis of Islam and democracy can satisfy devout Muslims, while at the same time protecting individual liberties and the rights of women and non-Muslims, then Islamic democracy may be the best hope for improvement in the Muslim world. 
Make no mistake: the Afghan constitution is pervasively Islamic. Its first three articles declare Afghanistan an Islamic Republic, make Islam the official religion, and announce that "no law can be contrary to the sacred religion of Islam and the values of this constitution." The new Supreme Court, which is given the power to interpret the constitution, is to be composed of a mix of judges trained either in secular law or in Islamic jurisprudence.
The new flag features a prayer niche and pulpit, and is emblazoned with two Islamic credos: "There is no God but Allah and Muhammad is his Prophet" and "Allah Akbar" ("God is Great"). The government is charged with developing a unified school curriculum "based on the provisions of the sacred religion of Islam, national culture, and in accordance with academic principles." The provision requiring the state to ensure the physical and psychological well-being of the family calls, in the same breath, for "elimination of traditions contrary to the principles of the sacred religion of Islam." 
And yet, the draft constitution is also thoroughly democratic, promising government "based on the people's will and democracy" and guaranteeing citizens fundamental rights. One essential provision mandates that the state shall abide by the United Nations Charter, international treaties, all international conventions that Afghanistan has signed and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Because Afghanistan acceded in March to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women -- a treaty the United States Senate has never ratified -- the draft constitution guarantees women far-ranging rights against discrimination. It also ensures that women will make up at least 16.5 percent of the membership of the upper legislative house (only 14 of 100 United States senators are women.)
In addition, the provision that makes Islam the nation's official religion also recognizes the right of non-Muslims "to perform their religious ceremonies within the limits of the provisions of law." This carefully chosen language might arguably leave room to restrict proselytizing -- as, for example, do similar laws in India and Israel -- but it nonetheless guarantees individual expression as an inviolable right. (It's worth noting that the right to change one's religion is enshrined in the human rights declaration.)
Yes, if the draft is ratified by the grand assembly, or loya jirga, tensions in the constitutional structure will have to be resolved later by the Supreme Court. According to the draft, for instance, political parties must not be organized around a program contrary to Islam or the constitution. That would exclude an antidemocratic Taliban party; but would it also exclude a party of secularists who wanted to remove Islam from the constitution? What about laws requiring women to dress modestly: unconstitutional as a violation of women's rights, or constitutional as in accord with the teachings of Islam? 
The draft constitution gives guidance on all these questions, but the answers might well come down to the makeup of the Supreme Court: one dominated by illiberal religious scholars might interpret the text one way, while one with a majority of judges trained in the secular tradition might see it very differently.
In its ambitions, attractions and dangers, the Afghan draft constitution can be seen as a metaphor for the wider prospects of Islamic democracy. Like the Afghan constitution, Islamic democracy has no chance if the West does not help create the economic prosperity and social stability for its success. After driving out the Taliban, the American-led coalition has done too little to bring Afghanistan under the control of a centralized government, nor has the United Nations presence in Kabul lessened the de facto control of the country by regional warlords.
Unless America and the United Nations do more to buttress the sovereignty of an elected Afghan government, the constitution will inevitably become more of a symbol than an actual charter of governance. Similarly, unless America keeps steady pressure on Muslim countries to democratize -- rewarding meaningful elections and punishing human rights violations -- little progress will be made.
The paradox, of course, is that if the people of Muslim countries do get a greater say in their own government, Islamic politics will likely prevail. Islamic parties speak the language of justice, the paramount political value to most Muslims. In some places -- Turkey, Indonesia and Malaysia -- secular forces in the society counterbalance the rising Islamic politics. But in the Arab dictatorships, where secularist politics are associated with autocracy and graft, increased freedom will undoubtedly lead, at least in the short run, to new gains for political Islam.
This leads some to say that we should not promote democracy in the Middle East lest we open the door to elections that might be, in the memorable words of a former assistant secretary of state, Edward Djerejian, "one man, one vote, one time." But calls to preserve the undemocratic status quo fail to acknowledge that the alternative to trying Islamic democracy may be much worse. 
It would be equally futile for the United States to unilaterally impose secularization in Afghanistan and Iraq. For a constitution to function, it must represent the will of its citizens. Nothing could delegitimize a constitution more quickly than America setting down secularist red lines in a well-meaning show of neo-imperialism. Rather, our goal must be to persuade a majority of the world's 1.2 billion Muslims that Islam and democracy are perfectly compatible. 
This will be especially true in Iraq, where the constitutional process must demonstrate to the Iraqi people and the rest of the world that the coalition intends to let Iraqis govern themselves. What's more, denying the possibility of democracy within Islam may bolster the case of Islamist radicals who, for very different reasons, claim that their religion and political freedom cannot mix. 
The draft Afghan constitution is just one possible picture of how Islam and democracy can live side-by-side in the same political vision. There are no guarantees in constitution writing or in nation building, and it is too soon to predict that the idea of Islamic democracy will take hold in practice -- in Afghanistan or elsewhere. All we can do is continue to press for democracy in the Muslim world: not because we naively expect a victory for secularism, but because freedom only makes sense as a value extended equally to all, to make of it what they will.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Carolyn Fisher) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (97%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CURRICULA (73%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); TERRORISM (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%) TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; WOMEN; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) FELDMAN, NOAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



295 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Aside, French View the U.S. With a Mixture of Attraction and Repulsion 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
One way of understanding how the French really feel about the United States these days is to ask them not about Iraq but about Arnold Schwarzenegger.
 When the Austrian-born actor won the governorship of California, some politicians and commentators said his victory reflected a dangerous American populism. 
 But many French shared the enthusiasm of Nicolas Sarkozy, France's law-and-order interior minister.
Mr. Sarkozy is said to harbor presidential ambitions, but the fact that he is the offspring of Hungarian immigrants and never went to an elite school puts him at a distinct disadvantage. 
In a remarkably confessional interview with RTL radio, Mr. Sarkozy said of Mr. Schwarzenegger: "That someone who is a foreigner in his country, who has an unpronounceable name" can become the governor of the biggest state in the United States, "this is no small thing!"
The current French-American rift, born of differences over Iraq but rooted in deeper post-cold-war friction, is more complex than it may appear. Bitter feelings remain strong on both sides of the Atlantic, and there is a sense that something fundamental in the relationship has failed. In some quarters anti-Americanism -- of the kind President Bush will encounter during a visit to Britain next week -- is at a high pitch.
But a close look at French attitudes toward America suggests that repulsion and disenchantment are at least equaled by attraction, curiosity and outright envy. The falling-out may be less complete than it seems.
Huge swaths of the relationship -- in the realms of business, intelligence and even military affairs -- still work. Criticism of the Bush administration, given full voice in the media, is offset by a French business ethic that often lauds the United States and a strong feeling, particularly among the young, that America remains a land of opportunity.
"When someone says, 'I'm going to work for a big corporation in New York for two years,' well, we all want to live that life," said Martin Coriat, 24, a student at a business school.
But many people in France feel they have lost touch with President Bush's America. His certainties in what Washington calls the "war on terror" have little resonance. The French do not feel the same threats that America insists are so dangerous. Certainly most of them are unconvinced that Iraq was worth invading.
If Sept. 11, 2001, is now the date of reference for America's security outlook, France and all of Europe tend to look more to 1989 and the end of the cold war. Even as the United States feels more threatened, Europe and France feel less so.
These differences often appear to be accentuated by the fact that France still believes, like America, that it has a global mission to spread its concept of democracy and liberty.
But French "republicanism" requires adherence to the notion of the ideal citizen and does not celebrate diversity or ambition. That, says Michele Lamont of Harvard University, "limits possibilities."
So, some young people turn to America as an alternative. At L'Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales in Jouy-en-Josas, a leafy town 15 miles from Paris, students tend to see the United States as a model.
The goal at this school of business and commerce is to teach students how to compete in a globalized world where American business models set the standard. France's historic unease about discussing money does not exist.
"Profit is the driver," said Bernard Ramanantsoa, the school's dean and a professor of strategy and business policy. "Money is the key."
Here the dream among many students is not to put down roots at home but to sail away -- to America -- a mythical place, perhaps, but one of boundless energy and possibility.
For Florian Bressand, 23, America offers "the right to fail that does not exist in France. Here we have to stick to a conventional path. In America, if you burn your fingers, you learn from it and start again."
The exodus of young French to the Silicon Valley is so pronounced that it has led to the creation of organizations there like Interfrench, a nonprofit organization of 5,000 French-speaking members. It is devoted to networking, sharing intelligence about work and business and even offering advice about French restaurants in the valley.
The departures reflect a measure of self-doubt. A slim volume titled "The France That Falls" is on the best-seller list. France's troubled economy has set off a fierce debate on the wisdom of a law limiting workers to a 35-hour week and whether the French work hard enough. A recent opinion poll concluded that 63 percent of the French believed that their country was in decline.
Yet such doubts coexist with a French sense of cultural superiority to the United States that often seems overwhelming. Only 24 percent of the French are inspired by the American economic system, 13 percent by American culture, 10 percent by lifestyle and 8 percent by American foreign policy, a poll by the BVA group found in February.
The disdain for things American is expressed in a variety of ways. 
Mayor Bertrand Delanoe of Paris, for example, protested the death penalty in the United States by bestowing honorary citizenship on Mumia Abu Jamal, a former Black Panther sentenced to death for the 1981 murder of a white Philadelphia policeman, giving the medal to the Marxist activist Angela Davis in a ceremony at City Hall in early October.
Such disapproval, even contempt, for the United States is evident in the worker bars just outside a Michelin tire plant in Clermont-Ferrand.
The smell of cigarette smoke masks that of rubber and glue pervading the air of the medieval-turned-industrial city in the heart of France. The conversations about America among assembly line workers just off the night shift tend to focus on the dangers of a world driven by the American quest for profit.
"The United States -- many people say it's so good," Jose Fernandes, 45, a 26-year-veteran at Michelin, said as he sipped a drink of mint syrup with water on ice and smoked Camels at Le Marina bar. "But the bottom line, the only thing that counts, is money. Retired people are forced to go back to work. The lowest workers don't get paid vacations. If your boss doesn't like you, you're fired."
Mr. Fernandes added that Michelin management "would copy the United States if it could."
"But it can't," he said. "Here, we have laws." He was referring to French regulations that often make firing impossible, guarantee six-week vacations and provide comprehensive pensions and health care.
The scene is rather different inside Michelin's corporate headquarters. There, managers use American team-building models and are driven by a fierce competitiveness that has put Michelin -- barely -- in the position of No. 1 global tire manufacturer.
Michelin may be one of the most secretive companies in France, but it is also one of the most global, with operations in 18 countries. Only about 30,000 of its 130,000 employees work in France. "The culture of Michelin is not to be too French," said Jean Laporte, director of Michelin's internal communications. That means talking about profit all the time, he said, adding, "Maybe it's a little bit of an exaggeration to say that the French never talk about money."
At the height of the Iraq crisis, many French executives and bankers were infuriated not only by the American march to war but also by what they perceived as clumsy French leadership.
At one point a small delegation of bankers and business executives called on President Jacques Chirac to complain that they were losing business. He bluntly told them, 'I'll take care of politics; you take care of the economy," according to a French banker familiar with the meeting.
Last spring, in the face of an American campaign to boycott all things French, Michelin itself went to war.
It answered every letter, e-mail message and phone call, informing its potential enemies that Michelin is as American as it is French, that it employs more than 20,000 Americans in 17 American factories and produces tires for United States Army armored personnel carriers.
The public relations offensive worked. The boycott failed, at least at Michelin.
Just as Michelin has gone on selling tires in America, swaths of the France-American relationship have continued to run smoothly. The arrest of Christian Ganczarski -- a German Qaeda sympathizer arrested in June by the French police with alleged links to the bombing of a Tunisian synagogue in April 2002 as well as the Sept. 11 attacks -- was the result of an American-inspired sting operation with Saudi and French cooperation.
"The cooperation with the C.I.A. and F.B.I. has become even stronger since Sept. 11 when the United States understood, as we did long before, the war against radical Islam," said Pierre de Bousquet, the head of the Directorate for Territorial Surveillance, France's counterintelligence service. "Nothing has changed because of Iraq."
But more than six months after President Bush declared the major combat in Iraq over, the friction with France is not. On a number of issues, from the environment to the death penalty, France and the United States do not share the same values.
The Bush administration remains in an unforgiving mood, French diplomats say. White House officials remind their French counterparts that the relationship is seriously damaged and that they are sorely disappointed that France is refusing to contribute to Iraq's reconstruction.
Aware of the problem, Mr. Chirac has stopped using the expression "multipolar world," which enraged Bush administration officials because it seemed to envision a power to oppose rather than support America.
But privately many of Mr. Chirac's advisers have concluded that they will have to wait for a new American administration before the rift is repaired.
By American and French accounts, when Mr. Bush and Mr. Chirac met in New York in September they had a remarkably cordial chat -- until conversation turned to Iraq.
Mr. Chirac said that he knew from "bitter experience" not to underestimate the power of Arab nationalism, and that a swift transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqi people was crucial, said two senior officials familiar with the conversation.
"Jacques, I have listened carefully and I strongly disagree," Mr. Bush was paraphrased as responding.
Mr. Chirac backed off, saying he was making the point as a friend. Then he added ominously, "History will judge."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aspects of France's relationship with America: At left, President Bush with President Chirac at an economic summit meeting in Canada. Above, a protest in Marseille against the Iraq war. At right, a worker at a Michelin plant in central France finishing a tire for a United States Army vehicle. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times); (Photographs by Associated Press) Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Through French Eyes"Findings of a poll in France of 1,013 people over age 18, conducted in person from Feb. 13 to 15 this year. "Do you think the French should be more inspired by the American . . ." ECONOMIC SYSTEMYES -- 24%NO -- 64%DON't KNOW -- 12% CULTUREYES -- 13NO -- 77DON't KNOW -- 10 LIFESTYLEYES -- 10NO -- 84DON't KNOW -- 6 FOREIGN POLICYYES -- 8NO -- 80DON't KNOW -- 12 (Source by Brule Ville Associs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ETHICS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); BUSINESS ETHICS (64%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (88%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) SCIOLINO, ELAINE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (98%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); HUNGARY (79%) FRANCE; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



296 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: ROME; 
With His Policies Facing a Major Test, Berlusconi Insists the Troops Will Stay in Iraq

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian prime minister, said Wednesday that his mind was unchanged and his determination unshaken: Italian forces belonged and would stay in Iraq, despite the deaths of 17 Italians in a suicide bombing.
 But as Italians absorbed the horror of that bloodshed, it was clear that Mr. Berlusconi's commitment to helping the United States in Iraq would come under newly intense scrutiny and perhaps increased opposition. 
 Italian public opinion has run strongly against the war in Iraq, at odds with Mr. Berlusconi's deep desire to please the United States. 
The bombing on Wednesday, which Italian officials called the deadliest single strike against Italian armed forces since World War II, threatened to sharpen that tension and cause Mr. Berlusconi significant political trouble.
"I don't think Berlusconi is willing or able to say, 'O.K., we're pulling our forces back,' " said Lucio Caracciolo, the editor of Limes, the leading Italian foreign policy journal.
"It would mean that the special relationship he has deliberately built over the last couple of years with Bush and Blair would be disrupted," said Mr. Caracciolo, referring to the American president and the British prime minister.
"On the other hand," Mr. Caracciolo added, elaborating on Mr. Berlusconi's problem, "I think he will have quite a rough time in Parliament and in public debate."
Mr. Berlusconi seems well aware of that.
Shortly after the bombing, he visited and addressed both houses of the Italian Parliament, as did his defense minister, Antonio Martino. Their speeches were televised nationwide.
Mr. Berlusconi told the country that the government's decision, after the fall of Baghdad, to dispatch up to 3,000 Italian soldiers, paramilitary police officers and civilians to Iraq was a just one. He said that Italians should not suddenly question that. 
"Our determination must be the same as that of the Italians in uniform who have brought honor to themselves and to the coalition that is committed to supporting Iraq's journey toward democracy," he said. "No intimidation will budge us from our willingness to help that country rise up again."
But the depth and durability of that willingness, inside and outside Mr. Berlusconi's center-right governing coalition, are unclear.
A majority of Italian legislators voted in the spring to authorize an Italian military presence in Iraq, and many of Mr. Berlusconi's opponents did not wage much of a fight against it. The military presence was framed as a relief, not a combat, mission.
But the authorization expires at the end of the year, and it is expected to come to another vote in Parliament just before then. 
One Western diplomat said the bombing would certainly prompt dissent and debate, but also predicted the military presence would be re-authorized. "I don't think that this dramatically shifts the equation," the diplomat said.
Several Italian political analysts and politicians agreed, saying that Italian lawmakers would not want to act in a way that made Italy seem fickle or easily cowed by terrorists.
"It is not possible to say, 'We are there,' and then, after such a dramatic event, decide to withdraw," said Paolo Gentiloni, a center-left member of Parliament.
Sergio Romano, a former ambassador to NATO, noted that Mr. Berlusconi's case for the military presence in Iraq had arguably been strengthened by a recent United Nations Security Council vote that authorized an American-led multinational force there.
But those same analysts and politicians said that Mr. Berlusconi was nonetheless in a difficult position, because he had nudged Italians down a road that held little appeal for most of them -- and the toll the country paid Wednesday would remind them.
"Berlusconi has got to be very worried," Mr. Romano said.
After news of the bombing broke here, Italians could be seen crying as they walked down the street. They could be heard sobbing in television broadcasts of calls they placed to police stations to express their sorrow for the people who were killed. In Parliament, one lawmaker after another rose to express grief and rage.
For the most part, opposition lawmakers avoided partisan comments, saying debate could wait while the country mourned.
But some of Mr. Berlusconi's opponents did not hesitate.
"The time has come to change course," said Massimo D'Alema, a former Italian prime minister and current opposition leader.
From the moment Mr. Berlusconi took office, he has stressed kinship with the United States, which he sees as both an economic advantage and a way to lift Italy's stature in the world.
On Wednesday, some Italians said that they were glad that Italy was playing a part in trying to build a democratic Iraq, and some said that Italy should help, however possible, in the American campaign against terrorism around the world.
But many other Italians said that being in Iraq made no sense and was not serving any purposes.
"It's useless to be there," Valentino Valentini, a 27-year-old bartender here. Mr. Valentini said that he was enraged by both the Italian military presence and its bitter consequence, adding: "What we should do is send the politicians to Iraq."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at the close of his speech to lawmakers in Rome yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (94%) BRUNI, FRANK; BERLUSCONI, SILVIO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; ITALY

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



297 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3064 words

HEADLINE: For Gephardt, Congress Role Is Both Platform and Hurdle 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
His wife of 37 years, Jane Gephardt, did not really want him to make another race for the presidency, and much of the conventional wisdom argued against it.
 This was not the political year, many of the pundits said, for a consummate insiderlike Representative Richard A. Gephardt, inextricably linked with every Democratic compromise, victory and defeat on Capitol Hill for the last 20 years. Indeed, to some Democrats Mr. Gephardt's support of President Bush on the war with Iraq seemed an example of all that was wrong with the party establishment. 
 But Mr. Gephardt, a 62-year-old Missourian, decided to run anyway. To him the question was different: How could he not? He has worked under five presidents, "and I just know I can do this," he said. "And I know I can do it better than the present occupant." 
The time is right for his economic message, he argues, and for a revival of the great Democratic cause of universal health insurance. And after the experience of his 1988 presidential campaign, he knows the challenges and the rhythms of the race, "the ebbs and flows of the thing," that "people go up, people go down." 
Dick Gephardt wants to do it right this time. It is, in many ways, one last chance for political vindication -- of his career, of the Congressional wing of the party, of a set of beliefs. At 7 a.m. in Florence, S.C., or 8 p.m. in Clinton, Iowa, he delivers his basic stump speech with the same urgency. "My name is Dick Gephardt, I'm going to win the Democratic nomination, and I'm going to beat George Bush in November," he says. "Everything we care about is vanishing before our eyes."
He has already lived through too many missed opportunities -- for himself, the party and the country, he suggests. His 1988 presidential campaign famously faltered when he ran out of money on the eve of Super Tuesday, a round of critical Southern primaries. He chose not to run in 1992, which turned out to be a Democratic year. Instead, he led House Democrats through the brutal and sometimes fruitless legislative struggles of the 1990's, a history that he now angrily defends against the sweeping dismissals of other candidates, like the "outsider" Howard Dean. 
"I don't mind him congratulating himself for what he's done," Mr. Gephardt says coldly, "but don't say we're all laggards and have done nothing, because it's just not true."
He had to hand over the speaker's gavel to Newt Gingrich in 1995, after Democrats lost the majority for the first time in 40 years, and he led the even more bruising political battle to try to win it back, four elections in a row, falling short each time. He is, in short, the paradigmatic Congressional Democrat -- too tactical and attuned to the polls, critics say, but battle-tested by a generation of partisan combat and hungry for one more race.
He has suffered setbacks in recent days. He had hoped for solid backing from organized labor, after years of loyal advocacy for the unions on trade and other issues. But while the industrial unions are, in general, rallying to his side, two of the most politically potent ones -- the Service Employees International Union and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees -- have endorsed Dr. Dean.
Moreover, Dr. Dean's decision to opt out of the public financing system means he can exploit his formidable financial advantage against Democratic rivals in states with early caucuses and primaries like Iowa and New Hampshire. Still, the Gephardt camp has been cheered by a recent poll showing Mr. Gephardt holding his own in Iowa, a must-win state for him that could position him as a leading Dean alternative.
If he fails, Mr. Gephardt says, it is almost certainly his last campaign. If he wins, he knows what he wants to do and how to do it.
"I spent a lot of time with Clinton and a lot of time with this president, especially after 9/11, when we met almost every week," he said one night in Iowa, driving back to Des Moines, reflecting on the difference between Gephardt '88 and Gephardt '04. "I feel more confident that I could walk into that office tomorrow and do a good job. I've seen what it takes to be president, what it's like to go through it day by day -- the pressures, the travel, the decisions, the whole thing."
Even in an era when outsider insurgencies are running strong -- Howard Dean, Arnold Schwarzenegger -- experience has to matter to voters in the end, Mr. Gephardt argues. 
So he persuaded his wife that, as he put it, "we couldn't just wave this guy through for another four years." He held a conference with his three grown children and found them far more enthusiastic about this race than they had been about the last, when he had moved the family to Iowa to campaign. 
He sat down with his daughter Chrissy, who recently came out as a lesbian, and her partner, and told them, "This is all going to come out, and if this is a problem and you don't want me to do it, I'm not going to do it." They told him to push ahead.
And he called the sprawling community of his former staff together and heard them out on the pros and cons. 
"At the end, Dick thanked us all, said that you all are the best friends I have ever had, and he broke down," said Donna Brazile, who worked for his 1988 campaign, and managed the Gore-Lieberman campaign in 2000. "I broke down, too." 
Much of the old crowd has returned for this campaign, including Steve Murphy, who ran Iowa for him in 1988 and is now his campaign manager, and Bill Carrick, his media consultant.

Inhaled Only the Heartland Air
This is his 18th campaign. The son of a milk-truck driver and a secretary, he is a lifelong politician, elected to the St. Louis Board of Aldermen at the age of 30 and to the House at 35. He is a famous straight arrow -- Baptist, Eagle Scout, scholarship student. He spent six years in the Missouri Air National Guard. The counterculture passed him by.
When past drug use became an issue among the baby-boomer Democratic candidates in November 1987, Ms. Brazile was sent to quiz Mr. Gephardt about his own. She asked if he had ever smoked reefer. He looked at her blankly. 
"Reefer?"
He went to Congress in 1976 as an anti-abortion, anti-mandatory-busing, relatively conservative Democrat whose political philosophy mirrored attitudes in the working-class district that elected him. But issue by issue, as he moved up in the Congressional leadership and on toward a presidential campaign, he became more liberal, more of a national Democrat.
That metamorphosis haunted his 1988 campaign. He was easy to mock as a shape-shifting careerist who changed his beliefs to improve his chances for the nomination; his opponents ran hundreds of commercials ridiculing his "flip-flops" on the issues, in one advertisement using an acrobat to execute flips. Then as now -- current detractors cite his role in brokering President Bush's Iraq war resolution -- his strength is his weakness: He is deeply political.
Critics of the 1988 primary campaign asserted that even over its narrow course, Mr. Gephardt moved seamlessly from one consultant-shaped message to another. The New Republic suggested that only a body-snatching by aliens could explain "the fact that Gephardt, who until a few months ago was a sort of neoconservative neoliberal, has suddenly begun talking, in his slow, robotic voice, like a devotee of the cult of Populism."
No group was more aggrieved than the anti-abortion movement. Even today, Douglas Johnson, legislative director of the National Right to Life Committee, says that Mr. Gephardt's shift to support of abortion rights 17 years ago "suggests that he will abandon what he professes to be deeply held views on a fundamental ethical issue for political expediency."
Mr. Gephardt responds a little wearily. "Every one of us evolves, changes, because conditions change, and issues change," he said. "You learn as you go. You are affected by what you learn, and you are affected by what you hear.
"Yes, I changed my view on abortion. I grew up in a Baptist household, I was taught certain things, I came to Congress with those beliefs. But I listened to members of my family, I listened to women, I listened to lots of people and came to a different view."
Yet even though Mr. Gephardt's voting record has remained fairly consistent in recent years, the accusation that he lacks a core lingers among his critics. It may be, some colleagues say, an inevitable result of a career spent in Congressional leadership, trying to find common ground in the ideologically sprawling Democratic caucus. 
History suggests that legislative leaders become, in a way, their party's sin eaters, too loaded up with baggage and compromise for the message-driven simplicity of a modern presidential campaign. Senator Bob Dole ran into this problem when he ran in 1988 and 1996; Mr. Gephardt faces it now. Howard Dean's trademark refrain -- "I'm from the Democratic wing of the Democratic Party" -- is squarely aimed at the Congressional candidates, like Mr. Gephardt, the inference being that they give too much, cooperate too much, fight too little.
So Mr. Gephardt is trying to reclaim -- and ennoble -- his history.
On the campaign trail he talks about the 1993 deficit reduction plan, pushed through by him and other Congressional Democrats without a single Republican vote, as a moment of great pride and high drama, when lawmakers took a stand that cost some their political careers. He has attacked Dr. Dean as not standing with the Democrats in the great budget battle of 1995-96, when Republicans sought to extract $270 billion from Medicare. Dr. Dean was governor of Vermont and chairman of the National Governors Association.

Personal History in Public Policy
Flying over South Carolina on a campaign trip this fall, Mr. Gephardt said, somewhat ruefully, that it sometimes seemed as if the great battles of the 1990's had been forgotten, "like Greek and Roman history." Yet he also reflected that when Democrats had the majority, "we didn't value it enough, we didn't do enough, to get things done and unify our party."
So Mr. Gephardt is also trying to transcend his legislative past. He says he wants to show the roots of his political philosophy and policy proposals. To put some big ideas out there, and explain why they matter -- to him, and to average working Americans.
He began his campaign with a comprehensive plan for universal health insurance, one that went back and tried to fix the problems so politically deadly to the Clinton plan (although critics say he does so by proposing to spend an unrealistic sum).
"I wrote this plan," he recently told an audience from the United Food and Commercial Workers union in Davenport, Iowa. "It comes from my head and my heart."
To prove that, Mr. Gephardt invariably tells audiences the story of his son, Matt, who was found to have cancer at 18 months old and was expected to live only a few months longer. The doctors found an experimental treatment that looked promising, and equally important in the American health care system, the Gephardts learned that their insurance would cover it.
"We lived in the hospital for five years," Mr. Gephardt said. "Today, he's 32 years old. He's married. He's a gift of God."
"There's nothing you can tell me about this," Mr. Gephardt tells his listeners, who are utterly quiet by the end. "I get it."
In Davenport, and elsewhere when he tells the story of Matt, Jane Gephardt struggles with tears as she listens. "It brings up a lot of very, very painful memories, and it's not easy," she said later in an interview. But she said she understood the necessity of this kind of campaigning. "People need to know what Dick really is. He's been criticized as bland and stiff and a Washington politician, and he's not that at all."
Mr. Gephardt's economic message is also framed in personal terms: his father eking his way into the middle class with a union driver's job; his mother making her way through a series of secretarial jobs that left her with a $42-a-month pension; the help he got along the way; the college loans he is still paying off for his daughter Kate. (Mr. Gephardt remains a man of comparatively modest means, after educating three children on his salary and that of his wife, an administrator for a pediatric practice.)
"My philosophy is different from W's," he says in his basic stump speech. "We're all interconnected, dependent on one another. I would not have accomplished what I've accomplished without a lot of help."
Much of the energy at his events comes from union members, who show up in their union T-shirts, ask hard-nosed questions about trade and job loss and know they will get the answers they want. Mr. Gephardt, a leader in the unsuccessful fight to block Nafta, argues that time has vindicated his position on the toll of globalization and some trade agreements, on the need to secure greater protections for workers here and abroad. He scoffs at some of his Democratic rivals as Johnny-come-latelies on the trade issue and its impact on manufacturing jobs.
He has steadily acquired the endorsements of labor unions, more than any other candidate, although not enough to get the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s umbrella endorsement.

On Iraq, Out on a Cracking Limb
Mr. Gephardt's roughest moments on the campaign trail come around his support for the war with Iraq; he helped broker the resolution authorizing Mr. Bush to use force. It is, for his critics in this campaign, the heart of the case against Dick Gephardt. Again, it comes down to the charge of being too political: being too acquiescent toward a popular president heading into the 2002 elections, too careful about his own political exposure as he moved toward 2004.
From the very beginning, his position was problematic. He returned to Capitol Hill from a Rose Garden news conference with the president in early October of last year, and met with House Democrats in caucus. "I got some real heat," he acknowledged.
Saying he told Democrats to vote their conscience, he added, "I don't need lectures about why I was wrong, or that my motives were wrong." 
His decision, he explained, was an outgrowth of meetings with many intelligence and foreign policy experts, in the Bush and Clinton administrations. And his goal was to influence the president, to push him toward closer cooperation with the allies and the United Nations.
In the end, the caucus voted overwhelmingly against Mr. Gephardt's position -- 126 to 81. One of those antiwar Democrats, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, is now running against Mr. Gephardt and has used the debates to mount some of the most scathing attacks against him.
Mr. Kucinich said at the debate in Baltimore, "Dick, I just want to say that when you were standing there in the Rose Garden with the president and you were giving him advice, I wish that you would have told him 'No!' " 
Campaigning, Mr. Gephardt is asked regularly about the vote, usually by a disappointed Democrat. He answers the question, patiently, as if it were the first time.
He is, by all accounts, superbly disciplined. In a small plane buffeted by turbulence over the humid skies of South Carolina, he was the only one who did not blanch. He kept focused on his interview. He answered the next question.
David Dreyer, who worked for Mr. Gephardt from 1989 to 1993 and is now a corporate communications consultant, said of Mr. Gephardt: "Say what you will about Dick -- he's 'too old,' 'too Washington' -- but he does know how to do this. He knows how to run a long campaign. He knows that what he says today could come back and haunt him tomorrow. When he wakes up in a hotel room in the morning, he knows where he is. He knows who he's supposed to call."
Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin and a supporter, says: "If you want to know when Dick is angry, it's when he stops talking. It's a cold heat."
Whatever his hopes for influencing Mr. Bush on Iraq, Mr. Gephardt is now contemptuous of him. After the terrorist attacks of 2001, when Mr. Gephardt was still the minority leader, the two men met regularly.
"I've watched him up close and he's not a bad person, he's a fine person, but he's not doing the job," Mr. Gephardt said. "In some ways, he's inexperienced. In other ways, he's unknowledgeable. In other ways, he's rigid and unwilling to change policies that I think just obviously need to be changed."
Like a budget laden with tax cuts, Mr. Gephardt said, a budget that now faces huge deficits.
When he seeks advice on the economic front, Mr. Gephardt said, he talks with several Clinton-era officials, like Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary; Leon E. Panetta, the former White House chief of staff; and Gene Sperling, the former chief White House economic adviser. He also talks to economists like James K. Galbraith, Barry Bluestone and Harley Shaiken.
On foreign policy, he talks to Clinton veterans like Richard Holbrooke, former ambassador to the United Nations, and Madeleine K. Albright, former secretary of state, as well as a longtime foreign policy aide, Brett O'Brien.
At times, all the frustration of the Congressional wing of the Democratic Party comes bubbling out of Mr. Gephardt. He has witnessed everything -- from the Reagan revolution to the government shutdown to the impeachment of a president.
With so much history, he simply could not walk away from one more race -- even if the spirit of the times has seemed against him in recent months. Supporters like Mr. Obey express outrage at the idea that somehow, by the rules of presidential politics, it would be better if Mr. Gephardt had not been involved in the last 20 years of Democratic struggle.
"Every day -- every day! -- he was the point man," Mr. Obey said. "He's been slogging for rational policy and progressive values every minute he's spent in this puzzle factory."
So he runs. He had difficulty earlier this year meeting fund-raising goals, and he faces an extraordinary challenge from Dr. Dean in Iowa. Still, Mr. Gephardt seems at ease on the campaign trail compared to the last time. Donna Brazile remembers she told him: "This is your last shot. If you're going to go for it, remember this is it." 
He is at peace in battle.

Challenging Bush
This is the first in a series of articles examining the lives and careers of the candidates seeking the Democratic presidential nomination. In addition, an audio slide show narrated by Robin Toner can be found online at nytimes.com/campaigns.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Richard A. Gephardt wants to take to the White House his long experience in leading the House Democrats. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A1); RICHARD A. GEPHARDT (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Agence France-Presse); (Photographs from the Gephardt campaign except where noted)(pg. A22) Chart/Photos: "Running For President Another Time"Born Jan. 31, 1941, in St. Louis to Lou, a milk truck driver and Teamster, and Loreen, a secretary. 1962 -- Graduates from Northwestern University. 1965 -- Graduates from University of Michigan Law School. 1965-71 -- Serves in Missouri Air National Guard as judge advocate. 1965-71 -- Lawyer, private practice 1971-77 -- Alderman in St. Louis 1976 -- Elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. 1977-PRESENT -- Representative from Missouri's Third District, in St. Louis 1988 -- Runs for Democratic presidential nomination; withdraws after Super Tuesday for lack of money. 1989 -- Becomes House majority leader. 1994 -- Becomes minority leader after Republicans win majority in House. 2002 -- Steps down as Democratic leader. (Sources by Biographical Directory of the United States Congress; Gephardt campaign; Congressional Quarterly)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); TERRORISM (59%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1988; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) TONER, ROBIN; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); FLORENCE, SC, USA (69%) MISSOURI, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



298 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Allies Plan to Block Effort to Ease Ban on Cuban Travel 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12 

 BODY:
President Bush's allies in Congress quietly eliminated a widely supported provision easing restrictions on American travel to Cuba from a major appropriations bill to save him from embarrassment over his political designs in Florida, officials from both parties said Wednesday evening.
 Leaders of a House-Senate conference committee removed the provision on Wednesday before the bill reached the president, who had threatened to veto any legislation that lifted sanctions against Cuba, the officials said. 
 "You're not going to put a bill on the floor that potentially embarrasses the president," said a senior Republican staff member. Referring to the Cuba provision's bipartisan supporters, he added, "I'm sure there will be some gnashing of teeth." 
The provision, which would bar Treasury Department authorities from enforcing a ban on travel to the island, was approved by the House in September 227 to 188, and by the Senate last month 59 to 38. Last week, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 13 to 5 to scrap the ban outright.
Since the language of the Cuban travel provision approved by the House and Senate was identical, it would not ordinarily have been subject to action by the conference committee, which sought to reconcile differences in bills that finance the Treasury and Transportation departments, advocates say. But Republican committee leaders, including Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska and Representative C. W. Bill Young of Florida, were determined to remove the Cuba measure, aides said.
The legislation might have drawn Mr. Bush's first veto, and risked derailing important appropriations for highway construction, Amtrak, election reform and other programs.
Some Congressional officials said they were appalled that the will of Congress could be thwarted in the back-room negotiations that drive conference committees. Republican leaders have removed Cuba-related language at the same juncture in previous years, though never against such an overwhelming mandate from their colleagues.
"The fact that it could be undermined is mind-blowing, and more reminiscent of the Politburo than Congress," said Steven C. Schwadron, the chief of staff of Representative Bill Delahunt, a Massachusetts Democrat, who has been a driving force behind lifting the travel ban. "It suggests that a handful of people can vaporize the will of the majority."
Some conservatives were troubled as well. Steven Johnson, an analyst at the Heritage Foundation, said the administration was missing an opportunity to fine-tune tough sanctions that have failed to bring change in Cuba. "The administration takes a hard line meant to please a certain crowd in Miami," he said.
The president's political strategists attach huge importance to Florida, which was crucial to Mr. Bush's narrow victory over Al Gore in 2000. The state's 833,000 Cuban-Americans were especially loyal to Mr. Bush, with about 80 percent of them voting for him.
"Cubans believe their vote determined the last president of the United States," said Lisandro Perez, a Miami sociologist. "People in Miami are pretty confident that Bush won't let anything past him on this."
In August, 13 Republican state legislators, including 10 Cuban-Americans, warned the president that Cuban-Americans would rethink their support of Mr. Bush unless the Justice Department indicted Mr. Castro and took other hard-line steps. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTION LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; CUBAN-AMERICANS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; VETOES (US) 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); WILLIAM D DELAHUNT (79%); TED STEVENS (59%); AL GORE (59%); C W BILL YOUNG (58%) MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) CUBA; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



299 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Economist Pleads Guilty in 30-Year BondTrades 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
John M. Youngdahl, a former senior economist at Goldman, Sachs, pleaded guilty yesterday to criminal charges in connection with the purchase of millions of dollars of 30-year bonds and bond futures minutes ahead of the Treasury Department's announcement in 2001 that it was ending the sale of such bonds.
 Mr. Youngdahl, who appeared in Federal District Court in Manhattan, also settled a separate insider trading case brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. neither admitting nor denying any wrongdoing in that case. 
 If approved by the court, Mr. Youngdahl would pay a civil penalty of $240,000 to the S.E.C. Under the plea bargain on the criminal charges, which included insider trading, theft of government property, wire fraud and conspiracy, he faces 33 months to 41 months in prison. 
Mr. Youngdahl received advance notice of the Treasury's decision to halt sales of the 30-year bond on Oct. 31, 2001, from Peter J. Davis, a Washington consultant. Mr. Davis regularly attended press briefings on the government's quarterly auctions of notes and bonds, although he was not a reporter.
The information from these Treasury briefings is embargoed until the Treasury makes its announcement public. But according to the original indictment, Mr. Davis had been giving his clients information from the briefings during such restricted periods since about 1999.
In the announcement of the plea bargain, James B. Comey, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said that Mr. Youngdahl and Mr. Davis had agreed before the Oct. 31 briefing that Mr. Davis would call Mr. Youngdahl before the embargo was lifted. 
The call came at 9:35 a.m., well ahead of the scheduled 10 a.m. Treasury announcement. Mr. Youngdahl, who along with other Wall Street analysts was not expecting the Treasury to end 30-year bond sales, told a Goldman senior bond trader, "I wouldn't be short bonds if I were you." In Wall Street language, that was an instruction to buy 30-year bonds right away.
Over the next eight minutes, Goldman traders bought almost $318 million worth of 30-year bonds and bond futures, according to the government filings. Goldman began selling its positions, which resulted in a profit of $3.8 million, at 9:51 a.m. At 9:43, the Treasury confused the situation by inadvertently announcing the end of 30-yearsales on its Web site 17 minutes early. The announcement set off one of the biggest one-day gains ever in 30-year bond prices. 
In September, Mr. Davis pleaded guilty to felony charges of insider trading, theft of government property and conspiracy. He also settled civil fraud charges with the S.E.C. without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
Goldman also settled with the S.E.C. Without admitting or denying the accusations, it agreed to pay back the $3.8 million in profit, as well as $500,000 in interest and a $5 million penalty. 
In court yesterday, Mr. Youngdahl, 44, told Judge Denise L. Cote that "I expected that Goldman would profit from having this information, and that this would ultimately benefit me as a member of Goldman," according to Bloomberg News.
"There was an annual bonus procedure," he added, "and it was my expectation that the bonus could be enhanced." 
In a statement released by his lawyer, Alan Levine of Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman, Mr. Youngdahl, of Summit, N.J., said: "Over the past two years, I have engaged in serious errors of judgment and lapses of integrity. I know these personal failings have inflicted unwarranted pain on my family, my friends and many of my former colleagues." 
"It is my sincere hope that those I have hurt will see in my plea of guilty an expression of my deep regret for the pain I have caused and an acceptance of responsibility for my misdeeds," the statement concluded.
Mr. Youngdahl also admitted in court that he lied to federal agents to obstruct the investigation and gave perjured testimony to the S.E.C., though he did not face those charges under the plea bargain.
In a related announcement that came as a surprise, the S.E.C. said it was dismissing its civil fraud case against Steven E. Nothern, a portfolio manager at MFS Investment Management, a mutual fund company in Boston. The S.E.C. statement said the commission retained the right to bring the case again. 
Mr. Nothern, who left MFS more than a year and a half ago and was contesting the accusations, also received a tip on the elimination of the 30-year bond from Mr. Davis, and together with three other portfolio managers bought a total of $65 million in 30-year bonds for MFS funds. Their profit was $3.1 million, according to the S.E.C.
Stephen J. Crimmins, a partner at Pepper Hamilton in Washington and a former deputy chief litigation counsel at the S.E.C., said, "This action by the S.E.C. suggests that they are thinking about adding defendants and they would want to have all the defendants in the same lawsuit."
MFS consented to an S.E.C. censure and agreed to pay a $200,000 penalty and $717,858 to cover the losses of a bond dealer who sold bonds to the MFS after the tip to Mr. Nothern.
Stephen M. Cutler, director of the S.E.C. enforcement division, said the civil action against Mr. Youngdahl sent a clear message. "If we catch you trafficking in or trading on confidential information that could affect the market for any security," he said, "you will pay a substantial price. This is true whether the securities are stocks or bonds, and it's true whether the securities are issued by the federal government or by a public company."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Youngdahl (pg. C1); John M. Youngdahl leaving Manhattan courthouse yesterday. He settled a separate civil case with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); FUTURES (91%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ETHICS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); WEB SITES (50%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PLEA BARGAINING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; FINES (PENALTIES); ETHICS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; YOUNGDAHL, JOHN M; DAVIS, PETER J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



300 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: GREEN VS. GREENBACKS; 
A Shrewd Eye for the Wash Cycle

BYLINE:  By LISA GUERNSEY

 BODY:
CARROLL LANCASTER, a 74-year-old Texan with the drawl to prove it, is all for saving Mother Earth. So when he and his wife, Catherine, built their retirement home a few years ago near Zephyr, Tex., they bought a front-loading washing machine, which uses less water and energy than a regular model; installed compact fluorescent lighting, which consumes less electricity than incandescent lamps; designed a two-foot roof overhang, which provides shade in the sizzling summers; and paid for a heating and air-conditioning unit so energy efficient that their utility company gave them a rebate. 
 Yet there was a limit to Mr. Lancaster's environmental friendliness. In his research, he learned that one way to consume less electricity was to use double-paned windows sealed with argon gas. But he discovered that his savings would be so small that it would take 10 to 20 years to justify the purchase. "I didn't think I would live that long," said Mr. Lancaster, who decided to use plastic double-paned windows -- without the argon. 
 In the past few years, the popularity of green buildings has expanded beyond die-hard do-gooders. (An exhibition titled "Big and Green: Toward Sustainable Architecture in the 21st Century" opened last month at the Museum of the City of New York.) Even builders are pledging to design environmentally responsible homes under a program called Energy Star, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy. 
The E.P.A. says that 20 percent of homes built next year in Florida, California and parts of the Southwest will earn the Energy Star label, meaning they are at the top of their class for energy efficiency. As earth-friendly labels become more common, consumers like Mr. Lancaster have more questions. If misused, do some energy-efficient appliances consume more electricity than conventional ones? Could changing habits be as effective as changing dishwashers? 
The answer depends on regional electric costs, climate, a home's age, the vintage of its appliances and whether the house is occupied by a family of six or a workaholic bachelor who is never home. 
Still, there are a few good rules of thumb. Buying an energy-conserving new refrigerator-freezer like the Sun Frost RF16, which has two separate cooling compartments and no fan, will lead to more savings than installing solar cells to generate electricity because an investment in solar cells takes decades to recoup, but the cost of a new refrigerator can be recovered in a few years. Not surprisingly, those who live in New York and California, where energy costs are high, will always save more with energy-efficient products. Most importantly, when consumers buy something labeled green or energy efficient, they have not necessarily helped their pocketbook or the planet.
"Nothing is as important as occupant behavior," said Ken Sheinkopf, a spokesman for the Florida Solar Energy Center, a research institute. "Depending on the way you use the appliances, the cooling system and the lights, you are going to be the final determinant on whether you save energy or waste it."
Mr. Sheinkopf, for example, is on a mission to re-educate people about ceiling fans. Rather than replacing an air-conditioner with a ceiling fan, many people use both. They assume that when the fan is on the air-conditioner's automatic thermostat will adjust, reducing its output. Not so, he said; the air-conditioner will not be able to tell that the room feels cooler. "This is a very major problem in trying to save energy," he said.
Or consider refrigerators. No one disputes that if your refrigerator is more than 20 years old, a new one will be better for your wallet and the environment. According to government statistics, a typical 2003 refrigerator uses about 500 kilowatt-hours of electricity per year, while a 1972 model consumes more than 2,500. At New York City's average price of 21 cents a kilowatt-hour, the newer version saves more than $420 a year. 
But if people "buy an Energy Star fridge, but then move their old fridge into the garage to keep a couple of six-packs cold, they aren't saving anything," said Jennifer Thorne, a research associate with the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, which has published a guidebook on home energy savings. "They are continuing to run an energy hog that is very inefficient."
Those who laud themselves for buying an energy-efficient washer like the 12-cycle Whirlpool Duet ($1,300), which uses 67 percent less electricity than a standard machine, or a dishwasher like the Double Dish Drawer ($1,600) from Fisher & Paykel, which uses less water because one drawer can be used at a time, may want to hold their applause. Someone who buys a Duet or Fisher & Paykel's Ecosmart washing machine and then runs it to wash a pair of socks is wasting water -- and energy. And today's dishwashers require no prerinsing, according to Consumer Reports, which has tested plates coated with, for example, congealed spinach. "If you buy an energy-efficient dishwasher but prerinse your dishes, you are throwing all those energy savings out the window," said Mark Connelly, the director of appliances and home improvement for Consumer Reports. 
Some products are simply more cost-effective than others. Insulation will quickly pay for itself if installed correctly because it immediately reduces the workload for heaters and air-conditioners. Sealing drafty gaps around windows and doors is also a smart and cheap way to cut back on heating and air-conditioning bills. 
Earning a quick payback from more expensive products, like the high-efficiency windows that Mr. Lancaster passed on, can be more difficult. Photovoltaic cells that turn sunlight into energy are a pricey item, unless you live in a state that offers tax incentives and has a lot of sunshine, like California.
Then there are the hidden costs. James and Claudia Horn, architects in Santa Fe, N.M., are renovating their home using as many environmentally sensitive products as possible. They plan to install a cistern to collect rainwater and a gray-water system that irrigates their backyard with bath water. To do so they must buy the cistern and gray-water tanks, the pumps and the extra piping. Burying the cistern underground would add another cost. "In the long term, you do save money," Mr. Horn said. But he does not know how soon he will see those savings. 
Taking out the guesswork is a primary goal of Energy Star. Since its inception in 1992 as a program to label electricity-efficient office computers, it has grown to include products in 35 categories. Maria Vargas, an Energy Star spokeswoman, said that it focuses on products that pay for themselves in four to five years. "If you are in the market anyway, there is no reason not to buy Energy Star," Ms. Vargas said.
But the Energy Star logo is no guarantee of maximum savings. The program typically singles out products that exceed the federal efficiency standards by 10 to 20 percent, but those standards can be so lax that surpassing them is no great feat. Standards for air-conditioners, some environmentalists say, are not nearly strict enough. 
There are also problems with appliance testing that can skew results. The government's test for dishwashers measures water and energy output on dishes that were never dirty to begin with. When dishwasher manufacturers began adding "soil sensing" technology to their products, which adjusts the amount of hot water needed, environmentalists successfully argued that a more realistic test should be used. New standards will be in effect next year.
With all these complexities, wouldn't it be easier to save energy and money the way people did 50 years ago? Why not go back to living in smaller homes that require less energy to heat and cool, purchasing fewer and smaller appliances and going without digital clocks or timers and touch screens that soak up electricity even when the appliance is not in use? 
Nah. 
As long as consumers can find products that are both cost-effective and environmentally friendly, they will buy them, Ms. Vargas said. People want to reduce pollution without giving up quality or convenience -- while saving money. "This is having your cake," she said, "and eating it too."

A Penny-Wise Guide to 'Buttoning Up Your House'
THE first chapter of "Consumer Guide to Home Energy Savings," published last month, promises that it is possible to pay just $200 to $300 a year for energy bills. 
That may sound too good to be true, but the authors of the guide, Alex Wilson, Jennifer Thorne and John Morrill, insist it is a reasonable goal for those who own new homes built with the best insulation, tight windows and the right ventilation systems.
The chapter on "buttoning up your house" provides step-by-step instructions and advice about how to lower energy bills. Drafts can sneak in, even around recessed lighting; caulk gaps or seal them with foam. And check your heating and air-conditioning ducts: if you see dirt streaks near the seams, seal them with mastic tape not duct tape; it's thicker and can be made of rubber.) 
The guide, which is in its eighth edition, tries to go beyond the simple Energy Star ratings to determine the best products in each category, even for appliances like kitchen ranges and microwaves that are not required to have Energy Star labels. 
The book takes a jaundiced look at things like glass cooktops whose halogen elements have "instant heat" capabilities: "The improvements in heating speed do not generate enough energy savings to justify the higher cost of halogen cooktops," the guidebook says. 
Halogen torchier lamps used for just two hours a day consume as much as $18 worth of electricity a year. Because they are so common in dormitories, Ms. Thorne said, "these lamps were costing the colleges a fortune." 
The book can be ordered for $8.95, plus shipping costs, from the association's bookstore at www.aceee.org or by calling (202) 429-0063.
At the Energy Star Web site, www.energystar.gov, people can learn which appliances will work best for their homes. LISA GUERNSEY

GRAPHIC: Photo: DRAFT CONTROL -- Carroll and Catherine Lancaster chose regular, not argon-sealed, windows. (Photo by Gerald Ewing for The New York Times)(pg. F13) Drawings (Drawings by Richard Tuschman)(pg. F1); (pg. F13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Energy Efficiency; Tests and Testing; Books and Literature; Electric Light and Power; Home Appliances ; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Lisa Guernsey; Alex Wilson; Jennifer Thorne; John Morrill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (92%); EARTH (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



301 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: AT HOME WITH: James Zemaitis; 
Blue-Chip Modern. It's So Fly.

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
DRESSED in a track-suit jacket, a skateboarding T-shirt and blue jeans, James Zemaitis, 35, looks like a fairly average young professional living on the Upper West Side. This, despite the fact that Mr. Zemaitis is the new director of 20th-century design for Sotheby's in New York, where even the publicists live in suits. 
 Mr. Zemaitis's first sales, on Dec. 11 and 12, will culminate in Lot 800 -- otherwise known as the Farnsworth House, designed by Mies van der Rohe and one of the most famous Modernist residences in the world. The presale estimate is $4.5 million to $6 million. The total estimate for the two days is $13.6 million to $18.9 million, the highest anywhere for 20th-century design. 
 "I'm the 'vibe' guy at Sotheby's in my department," Mr. Zemaitis said, with a kind of apoplectic pleasantness that is his trademark. He sat in his clinic-white apartment last week on a Grasshopper chair designed by Eero Saarinen in the 1940's. His bare feet were propped on the matching ottoman. 
The vibe for collecting modern design could not be more critical right now. Tastes are changing, and prices are reacting. Flagship venues like "Modernism," the four-day show at the Park Avenue Armory in New York, which opens today, will be viewed under a strong light. The audience is changing, too. Collectors and enthusiasts are competing with interior decorators and their clients, a well-moneyed contingent that is driving a demand for novelty before scholarship.
"It is a very interesting time indeed -- changes of strategy, new blood, quite a lot of musical chairs," said Nicola Redway, who became head of the 20th century department at Christie's America in February. "The market seems to be incredibly buoyant and hungry."
Mr. Zemaitis's design auctions at Phillips, de Pury & Luxembourg in New York, from December 2000 to June 2003, brought wide notice in fashionable spheres, with their club-opening-style parties and sleek catalogs. "I put Dan Johnson on the cover because I just thought he was fly," Mr. Zemaitis said of his last sale at Phillips and the American midcentury designer whose chair graced the catalog's cover. 
It is a tactic Mr. Zemaitis brings with him. He said he believed a profile in House & Garden in May nailed the Sotheby's job. With their smart, graphic design, the December sale catalogs could be issues of a shelter magazine. 
Experts agree that a shakeout in modern design is under way, comparable to that in the area ofArts and Crafts in the late 1980's, when the truly exceptional parted company with the merely stylish. The giddiness and splash of the 1990's, when midcentury modern design looked newer to the dot.com generation than contemporary design did, has calmed. The popular designs, flushed out of every middle-American attic, basement or office, are widely available and being reissued.
Ray and Charles Eames, patron saints of 20th-century design whose every molded chair was treated as a holy relic four years ago, are mortals again. The bulk of their work is achieving newly sober sale prices as handsome furniture, not rarities. An early ESU-400 shelving unit, with its characteristic colorful panels, sold at Rago Modern Auctions in Lambertville, N.J., in October for $4,750, well below its $6,000 to $9,000 presale estimate. 
But the Eameses' contemporaries, Isamu Noguchi and George Nakashima, are ascending in value because of their attractive idiosyncrasies as artists or craftsmen. A Noguchi rocking stool, estimated at $10,000 to $12,000, sold at Phillips in June for $25,095.
Less-explored names like Alexandre Noll, a French sculptor and woodworker who died in 1970, are emerging rapidly, groomed for stardom. And designers working today like Marc Newson and Karim Rashid, whose designs are available new, are entering the market, at its invitation, and are eager for major collectors and museum recognition. Mr. Zemaitis pushed the approach at Phillips, to the point of commissioning new design for sale at auction. Testing the waters, Mr. Rashid, the creator of the Garbino trash can, has consigned a prototype of a chair designed in 1999 (it was never produced) to Sotheby's December sale; it is estimated to sell for $15,000 to $20,000.
Recent sales at auction houses specializing in modern design like Wright in Chicago and Rago Modern Auctions have shown sharply mixed results, especially for postwar design. Even the power of provenance at Wright's Sept. 14 sale from the Gabrielle and Michael Boyd collection made a poor showing: 20 percent went unsold, including the most expensive lots. Richard Wright, an owner, said it was his first auction in years to realize under $1 million.
The Boyds, who live in Santa Monica, Calif., in a house designed by Oscar Niemeyer, the Brazilian architect, are perhaps the most conspicuous of the modern-design collectors. Their collection was exhibited at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in 1998. The Boyds, who also have a reputation as preservationists, bought and sold the architect Paul Rudolph's triplex in New York. But they have become increasingly controversial for entering the market repeatedly as sellers as well as buyers.
Several people in the field said that the Boyds had their eyes on the Farnsworth House, but Mr. Boyd said yesterday, after hesitating, that they were not going to bid. A consortium of preservationists is trying to protect the 1951 house on its site in Plano, Ill., by raising money to buy and maintain it as a property open to the public. By Tuesday, the group had received less than $4.5 million, the low estimate, in contributions.
Driven by optimism in the economy and a return of collectors' confidence in antiques, especially relatively low-priced modern designs, Sotheby's and Christie's are reassessing their positions on 20th-century decorative arts, and they have taken different tacks. Sotheby's has pushed less expensive pieces by Dan Johnson and T. H. Robsjohn-Gibbings into its important December sales, cheek by jowl with expensive pieces by Tiffany Studios and Frank Lloyd Wright. Its December sales bridge the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries, from the Scottish designer Dr. Christopher Dresser to Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec, the contemporary French designers. Christie's will sell postwar design in the fall and spring, but not as a part of its "Important 20th-Century Decorative Arts" sale on Dec. 9.
"The enduring core of the market is still prewar decorative arts," said Ms. Redway, who is including a significant portion of work by the Wiener Werkstatte, which is 100 years old this year, in her sale. She referred to the validation of less expensive objects by selling them next to more expensive ones as "mixing sows' ears with silk purses."
For the moment, Mr. Zemaitis, who got his start collecting beer-bottle caps when he was 5, is the center of attention, or at the center of the storm.
"I used to almost get run over, hit by cars, because I was always like jumping out in the street to get a smashed Michelob cap," he recalled. Mr. Zemaitis, an only child, grew up near Morristown, N.J.
Mr. Zemaitis now collects Russel Wright, modernist American salt and pepper shakers and Walter R. Brooks's Freddy the Pig books. Brooks, a short-story writer who published 26 titles between 1927 and 1958, was the creator of Mr. Ed, the talking horse.
Mr. Zemaitis's most aggressive move at Phillips, and at Sotheby's, was his decision to promote and sell work by young living designers, whose sales outlets typically have been retail design stores and contemporary design showrooms. You shop. You like it. You buy it. The imprimatur of importance is your own, not an international auction house's. 
Some of Mr. Zemaitis's designers, like Marc Newson, have a track record and are being actively collected. Some, like Mr. Rashid, do not. Mr. Zemaitis sees himself as an editor and a curator, as well as a specialist, and a retailer too. He takes as his model the contemporary art market, where material sold as new comes to auction more quickly.
"It's a blurring of the primary and secondary markets," Mr. Zemaitis said. "The most cutting-edge contemporary art market at auction has already blurred these boundaries. It has quickly become the spot where someone buys a Gursky photo from a dealer for $30,000 and flips it in an auction the next year for $100,000, because the artist is exceedingly hot."
New design keeps the excitement fresh, and also keeps new material on tap, as great midcentury material disappears into collections. Designers like Mr. Rashid, it would seem, are only too happy to cooperate.
"Karim is the designer who is looking for ways to expand his marketing vision, in every way, from mass market to high end," Mr. Zemaitis said. "I'm the businessman." 
Buyers who don't make it to Sotheby's can always hedge their bets at Bed Bath & Beyond, where this week Mr. Rashid's Garbino was still $4.99.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BIRTH OF A SALESMAN -- James Zemaitis, the head of 20th-century design at Sotheby's, chills in a Grasshopper chair. (Photo by Alen MacWeeney for The New York Times)(pg. F1); HOUSE & AUCTION -- Left, a catalog layout worthy of a shelter magazine, from the Joop portion of Sotheby's December design auction, which ends with the sale of the Farnsworth House, lower left. Top far left, James Zemaitis. (Photos by Alen MacWeeney for The New York Times; below, George Lambros); COOLING OFF -- A George Nelson desk in a December sale at Sotheby's is estimated at $8,000 to $12,000. Eames chairs sold at Wright for $2,800, well below estimate.; HEATING UP -- A Josef Hoffmann vase, priced at $30,000 to $50,000 at Christie's. A Jean Prouve bench, estimated at $5,000 to $7,000, sold in September for $12,000.; COMING SOON -- Constantin Boym chair at Phillips, estimated at up to $3,000. (Photos by from left, Sotheby's, Brian Franczyk/Wright; Christie's, Brian Franczyk/Wright; Phillips)(pg. F11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); SKATEBOARDING (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (66%) Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Sotheby's

PERSON: William L Hamilton; James Zemaitis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



302 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
For a Man in Pain, Progress Is a Wearable Pair of Shoes

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO

 BODY:
All his life, Frederick Hart, 46, has been trying to stand on his own two feet. The problem is his feet won't cooperate.
 "If had a wish, I would wish to have a doctor who could tell me what's wrong," said Mr. Hart, taking off his shoes in his landlord's living room to reveal a pair of clean but battered, misshapen feet. "I need somebody really special that can look at my feet and say, 'This is the problem.' Come on, half my life is gone." 
 Mr. Hart has had three operations to shave bone from his feet and place metal straightening pins and screws in his toes to ease the pain. He rests and prepares his "dogs" with creams for a fungus that afflicts the skin on his soles, and uses a razor blade to slice off the thick calluses and dead skin that keeps returning and turning his feet black.
The records from various doctors over the past 23 years are filled with mysterious-sounding medical terms: peripheral neuropathy, peripheral motor axonal polyneuropathy, xerosis and hammer toes. Peripheral neuropathy is a painful condition that causes a pins-and-needles sensation in the soles of the feet and the legs.
Mr. Hart said his father, a New York City police sergeant, and his uncle Herman Hart, a maintenance man, both complained of the same excruciating pain.
"We used to make fun of my uncle Herman because he would slide down the steps because his feet would hurt him so much," Mr. Hart said.
But long ago, Mr. Hart wished he could take back the laughter at his uncle's expense.
"He drank himself to death," he said.
Mr. Hart traces his own problems to his pain: his honorable discharge from the Marine Corps, his divorce, his problems keeping a job and his occasional homelessness. Mr. Hart says he does not want to end up like his uncle. He says he is scared to drink but sometimes he uses the morphine and hydrocontin his doctors prescribe for him.
Mr. Hart was discharged from the Marines after three months of pain.
"They were slicing the skin off and they would cut too deep and I'd see the blood and say, 'Look, I appreciate what you guys are trying to do, but just stop, I'll do it myself,' " Mr. Hart recalled, looking at his right big toe, which has no nail.
Ever since, he has been reluctant to entrust his aching dogs to anyone.
Mr. Hart has worked many jobs but themost money he has ever been able to make is $17,278, as a bus driver in 1999 for the New York City Transportation Authority. Often Mr. Hart says, he is fired for lateness on the days when the unbearable aching and sharp pains make him walk slower than his already deliberate strides.
Between jobs, Mr. Hart traveled to Washington, where he has family. He stayed in a homeless shelter, ashamed of having leaned on his family for help.
"It was like being in jail or something," Mr. Hart said of the shelter. "I'm not a person just out of jail. I'm not of the streets."
But a shelter visit led to one of his best stretches of work. In 1994 while staying at the CCNV Federal City Shelter in Washington, Mr. Hart entered a driver's training program and soon had a job with Fairfax Connector, a bus service. Initially Mr. Hart thought a driving job would mean less pressure on his feet. But pressing the brake and gas pedals caused intense pain, too.
Since that first job, Mr. Hart has worked for several bus lines. But for all that traveling, his anguish is never too far away. 
His operations, one in 1995 and two corrective operations in 2000 and 2001, have eased but not eliminated his pain. He has been largely unemployed since June 2001 and receives $126 in food stamps monthly. Public assistance pays $400 monthly rent for a room in his landlord's attic in Queens Village.
In February, Medicaid provided Mr. Hart with a pair of $400 podiatric orthotics, special inserts that cushion and give support to his feet. His doctor suggested that Rockport shoes would be the most comfortable shoes for him to put the orthotics in. They felt better than most shoes he had worn, but cost $100, money he did not have.
A friend suggested he call Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Catholic Charities secured $99 of Neediest Cases money for the shoes.
The orthotics and Rockports, while not relieving his pain completely, have made it bearable enough for him to go to Goodwill Industries in Long Island City, Queens, where he hopes to find a sitting job and enroll in computer classes.
But the shoe soles are getting very worn and his landlord has asked him to leave before Christmas.
He just wants relief as he tries to put one aching foot in front of the other.
"I want to be a human being," Mr. Hart said, pleading. "I'm ashamed. I never did something with my life. I haven't accomplished anything."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,343,127.53
Recorded Tuesday: 21,455.00
Total: $2,364,582.53

Last year to date: $2,650,839.35

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederick Hart in his Queens home, with drugs for his diseased feet. (Photo by Richard Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); DOGS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (62%); SKIN DISORDERS (54%); POLICE FORCES (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: Arthur Bovino; Frederick Hart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



303 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: At Play in Chinatown's Backyard; 
Eastern Chess Meets Western Basketball Under the Mulberries

BYLINE:  By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Blind Man Chin shuffles into Columbus Park in Chinatown, lifts his wooden chess set and shakes the pieces inside, sounding a crackle that scatters the pigeons. It is his invitation to play.
 Someone always accepts, rising from among the dozens of Chinese chess players to lead him to a picnic table and set up his board. Mr. Chin, 60, whose first name is Wing, plays from memory, shouting the moves he wants to make and listening to those called out by his opponent. He plays game after game until the sun sets over Lower Manhattan. Then he takes the train home to Brooklyn. 
 Benson Li, 19, enters his own piece of the park on the opposite end, three basketball courts away. He glides across the concrete pavement in a baseball cap and cargo pants, shaking friends' hands with a special finger snap that is their private greeting, and then settles in for a game of cards, usually hearts or spades.
Mr. Chin and Mr. Li have never met. They live in distant worlds, separated by language, age and, in some ways, cultural identity. But they share one palpable need: to keep coming back to the same small and crowded patch of green that is Chinatown's communal backyard. 
It is a pull that the park's regulars, including the many who have moved to Queens, Brooklyn and New Jersey, grasp for words to explain. 
"It was a part of me growing up," said Mr. Li,a freshman at the Borough of Manhattan Community College who still lives in Chinatown. 
The park is where Mr. Li came of age; he climbed the monkey bars as a 6-year-old and broke his arm twice playing basketball and football in his early teens. "That's how I got my love for the park: I got hurt."
For the man known to everyone as Blind Man Chin, the park is a sanctuary in a land that still seems foreign. Mr. Chin's youthful memories belong to Toisan, China: he immigrated to Chinatown in 1978. He later moved with his wife and four children to Bensonhurst in Brooklyn, but he has returned to the park at least three times a week over the last 25 years.
"I've made many friends with this board," Mr. Chin said in Chinese, speaking through a translator, as he smoked a Marlboro Red at one of seven dark green picnic tables that have become permanent chess playing stations. 
The life of Columbus Park begins in the early morning hours, when men and women arrive to practice tai chi and toddlers clamber around the park's playground. 
At lunchtime, the park calls forth lawyers, jurors and probation officers from the Criminal Court building across Baxter Street, along with the occasional Wall Street analyst. 
Older Chinese women sit under rainbow-hued umbrellas at the Bayard Street entrance, waiting to tell the fortunes of passers-by. Sometimes they are joined by a small troupe of Chinese opera singers. 
Schoolchildren rush to the paved field for recess. In the early afternoon, teenagers begin to gather at the park's south end, near Worth Street, to play basketball and cards.
But if the park has a daylong anchor, it is the dozens, and sometimes hundreds, of men who come for Xiangqi, or Chinese chess.
The game is similar to Western chess: its object is to capture the opponent's leader. The general is to Chinese chess what the king is to Western chess. The Chinese pieces -- flat round wooden or plastic chips engraved with Chinese characters -- are placed on the intersections of the board's lines. 
Every day, groups of men begin to gather around 10 a.m. to watch, play and sometimes bet on games. As the sun moves overhead, the men lift the tables to the shade of the mulberry trees. When too many pigeons congregate on the branches, the men nervously move the tables back into the open. At sundown, the players reluctantly go home.
During the blackout last summer, they stayed through the night and played by candlelight.
A sign near the tables warns that gambling is illegal, and the police occasionally make arrests. But, because the players are of modest means -- many are unemployed or retired -- the bets are usually a cup of coffee and rarely exceed a $10 bill. 
"In Chinese they say your life is like a chess game," Mr. Chin said. "Each game is new. It's just like us. Every day is not the same. Chess is life."
The same faces appear, day after day. 
There is Kar San in his black poncho, 3 feet 4 inches tall, smoking a pipe and listening to country rock on a hidden Walkman. There are the Detectives, two former officers of the Royal Hong Kong Police. There are the park's revered champions, men like Bond Tam and Lo Ming; when they arrive, space is immediately cleared for them to play. 
Then there is Loud Mouth Ming, who earned his nickname with superfluous and unsolicited spectator commentary. When a game turns suspenseful, though, dozens of men press around a table, hurling suggestions at the players. 
The advice comes in at least five Chinese dialects, from Cantonese (the most common dialect in Chinatown) to Toisanese and Shanghainese. Mostly, the men understand one another.
"If you move that piece, you'll have checkmate," a gray-jacketed spectator told a man playing in the early evening.
"That won't do," the player replied.
"Why don't you just do it?" the man insisted.
"I don't need your advice right now. Your bad advice."
There are younger Chinese among the chess players, but they are Chinatown's newest immigrants, mostly from the Fujian province. They scarcely relate to their basketball-toting peers at the park's south end. 
"Their Chinese is like our English -- just as poor," said Eagle Chen, 28, huddled over his chess board. He came from China 10 years ago.
For the younger Chinese-Americans at the south end, raised playing both Monopoly and Chinese chess, the gap between the two groups is hard to define, said a 21-year-old Baruch College finance major who identified himself only as Eric. "It's just something you feel, like an uncomfortable silence," he said.
Still, the park's current of Chinese culture draws the younger group, which includes high school freshmen from Bronx Science or Stuyvesant who hop off the train en route to their homes in Brooklyn for a quick game of cards and a snack at the Tasty Dumpling on Mulberry Street.
"You feel like you know everything here," said Elizabeth Wang Yo, 16, of Brooklyn, who said she added "Elizabeth" to her name because she "really wanted" an English name. "It's like we belong here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wing Chin, 60, of Brooklyn, known as Blind Man Chin, goes to Columbus Park in Chinatown at least three times a week to play Chinese chess. Dozens, sometimes hundreds, of men play it daily in the park. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CARD GAMES (77%); MARTIAL ARTS (75%); PROBATION (74%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); WOMEN (72%); TRAINS (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); IMMIGRATION (61%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Chinese-Americans

PERSON: Andrea Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Columbus Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



304 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
A 16-Acre Memorial That'll Never Be

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
TAKE a deep breath.
 A week from now, many New Yorkers may be consumed by the question, "Which memorial should we build at the World Trade Center site?" Eight designs culled from 5,200 submissions will be on display at Battery Park City as the memorial jury prepares to choose a winner. The aesthetic appeal, spiritual resonance, public mindedness and financial soundness of each proposal will be the subject of soliloquies, arguments, essays and chatter. 
 So take a breath now, because this may be the last opportunity to contemplate quietly the entire 16-acre World Trade Center site as a memorial. 
The point is not to second-guess the competition but to affirm the magnitude of what is being remembered, since the devastation was not confined to the corner where the twin towers stood, now a 4.5-acre memorial polygon, 384 feet along Liberty Street, 552 feet along West Street.
Theoretically, proposals may exceed these boundaries, but they must be deemed "feasible and consistent with site plan objectives" by the jurors and by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which is running the competition. There is little chance that any plan would be chosen that foreclosed a new PATH terminal, office towers, cultural centers and stores.
"By and large, people believe that it's imperative to rebuild the site," said Kevin M. Rampe, president of the corporation. "There is a question of the mix of uses and what predominates. But the debate as to whether to rebuild has passed."
That particularly New York conviction that construction equals regeneration may have obscured other voices, but they are still out there. And they are worth listening to, if only because they may offer a useful yardstick for gauging the gravity and scope of the eight proposed plans.
"Nothing could more faithfully represent the loss we suffered on Sept. 11, 2001, than a big, terrifying, unhelpful void," Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, said yesterday. "There should be a substantial patch of ground that one is almost afraid to approach, but that one must. There should be something frightening about it."
Or something lovely.
Dr. Sherwin B. Nuland of the Yale School of Medicine, the author of "How We Die: Reflections on Life's Final Chapter," imagines a "parklike oasis of foliage and trees and benches and secluded walkways and fountains and small statuary and above all retreat, in the midst of the towering city and the din around it."
"One of the things Americans do least well," he said, "is to contemplate, meditate and be alone with themselves and with their thoughts."
Dr. Nuland conceded yesterday that this garden of meditation would never come to pass. "I was told rather harshly that commerce is all, and that it is impossible for such a valuable piece of real estate to be put to the use that I suggested," he said. "Of course, it represents a huge sacrifice, but what a small price to pay for the opportunity to discover and rediscover ourselves."
By contrast, he said, a building is "a monument not to the people who died, but it becomes a monument to the brilliance of the architect."
There are architects who have thought along the same lines. Tadao Ando, for example, who won the Pritzker Architecture Prize in 1995, has proposed a "memorial tomb" in the form of a spherical mound 90 feet high.
"If we are to fill the void at the site of the lost World Trade Center, it should not be with architecture but with a 'place' to remember and reflect," he wrote. "What we need now is the courage to construct nothing more."
And Michael Sorkin, an architect and director of the graduate program in urban design at City College, would create a "great space of gathering, something between a plaza and a park," he wrote in a recent essay. He called for federal financing, on the grounds that "no less than Gettysburg or Pearl Harbor, this is the site of a national trauma."
"If terror demands a civic reply," he wrote, "what better one than a solemn memorial to those lost and a space for the most fundamental exercise of democracy in space, the freedom to gather in a place that is our own."
MANY family members of those who were killed are focused on preserving the footprints of the twin towers, outlined 70 feet below street level at bedrock. But that does not necessarily rule out development on the east side of the site.
"My opinion is that there needs to be a balance between the commercial component and historic preservation, with the memorial done as the centerpiece," said Anthony Gardner, a board member of the Coalition of 9/11 Families. His brother Harvey Joseph Gardner III died in the attack.
Asked yesterday about leaving the whole site vacant, Nikki Stern, who lost her husband, James E. Potorti, said, "Anything that economically devastates New York would not be a good legacy in terms of remembering our loved ones."
"Besides," she said, "I wouldn't want to send the message that no one could ever again work where the towers once stood." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); WRITERS (66%) World Trade Center (NYC); Terrorism; Hijacking; Airlines and Airplanes; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Architecture

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



305 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Study On Housing Costs 

BYLINE:  By David W. Chen (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 Government regulations are largely responsible for the high cost of housing construction in Manhattan, according to a study released yesterday. The study -- "Why Is Manhattan So Expensive?" -- was published by the Manhattan Institute, a policy research group that favors less government regulation. 
It focused on why so few new apartments have been built in Manhattan since 1980, despite a solid economy and escalating real estate prices. The study's authors -- Edward L. Glaeser of Harvard and Joseph Gyourko of the University of Pennsylvania -- concluded, by a mathematical analysis of costs, that government regulations were a form of tax. It can amount to as much as 50 percent of the total price of the median condominium, for example, the authors said. The study did not cite specific regulations. Some housing experts said the study neglected difficult-to-measure factors, like demographics. David W. Chen (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); WRITERS (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); DEREGULATION (86%); MATHEMATICS (53%) Housing; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



306 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Home Builder Study Attacked 

BYLINE:  By Iver Peterson (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 A construction industry study critical of proposed "antisprawl" regulations was quickly denounced as flawed yesterday by state officials. The National Association of Home Builders said yesterday that its study had concluded that the Department of Environmental Protection's proposed regulations would cost New Jersey nearly 43,000 jobs, reduce state revenue and increase the average home price to $483,000. 
"The D.E.P.'s regulatory strategy translates into families without homes and workers without jobs," said Patrick J. O'Keefe, head of the New Jersey Builders Association. Bradley M. Campbell, above, the environmental protection commissioner, said the study assumed wrongly that the administration's aim was to stop all growth. Mr. Campbell said growth should be directed first to areas already developed Iver Peterson (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); DEREGULATION (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%) Area Planning and Renewal; Land Use Policies; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Suburbs; Housing

ORGANIZATION: National Association of Home Builders

PERSON: Iver Peterson; Bradley M (Comr) Campbell; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2003 



307 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
36 Hours Charlotte, N.C.

BYLINE:  By LOUIS JACOBSON 

 BODY:
 OVER the last 20 years, Charlotte, North Carolina's biggest city, has remade itself from a textiles town into an investment and banking center, the nation's second-largest financial-services hub after New York City (and about to become bigger if the proposed merger of Bank of America and Fleet goes through). The moderate Carolina weather makes the city a pleasant place to stroll in winter, while museums and hip shops are also a draw. And though the city has a thriving historic-preservation movement, you get the unmistakable feeling that Charlotte sees itself as a city of the future -- and it has the new skyscrapers to prove it. LOUIS JACOBSON

Friday

7:30 p.m.

1. Beyond Gritty, and Grits
When the Pewter Rose Bistro (1820 South Boulevard; 704-332-8149) moved to the South End section of Charlotte 15 years ago, the neighborhood was scruffy and all but abandoned at night. But its building, a onetime industrial site, had 30-foot ceilings, great light and enough room for a big kitchen. Now the South End is gentrified, and Pewter Rose remains one of the city's most eclectic restaurants. The executive chef, Blake Dewey, prepares appetizers like fried chevre and chipotle and tiny tacos filled with tuna sushi smothered in a creamy sauce ($8.95 to $10.95), and entrees like salt-fried duck for wrapping in lettuce leaves and Indonesian chicken and shrimp ($15.95 to $16.95).

9 p.m.

2. Vodka Nocturne
Luckily, you don't have to waddle far from a table at Pewter Rose to the comfortable couches of Tutto Mondo (704-332-5142), the nightclub that shares owners -- and the second floor of the former industrial building -- with Pewter Rose. The club says it caters to 30-something professionals, and it starts most weekend nights with mellow jazz by local musicians and becomes more lively as the night goes on. Behind the bar are almost 50 vodkas, from Karl Marx to ruby-red grapefruit Charbay, so make your choice and settle in with a cocktail.

Saturday

8:30 a.m.

3. Soaring Heights
Downtown Charlotte -- actually called Uptown -- is eminently walkable, with sidewalk benches and marble plazas scattered among the cluster of postmodern skyscrapers. At 60 stories, the Bank of America Corporate Center (100 North Tryon Street), designed by Cesar Pelli, towers over Independence Square -- the crossroads that gave birth to Charlotte -- with its crown of icicle-sharp points. One block north is the new 47-story Hearst Tower; finished in 2002, it bows outward as it rises, ending in an angular neo-Deco cap reminiscent of the Chrysler Building in Manhattan. The retro lobby includes the Bank of America Gallery (214 North Tryon Street; 704-388-3104), which holds exhibitions from the bank's collection. The current show is "The Photo League: Photographs of Urban Life in American From the 1930's and 1940's."

9:15 a.m.

4. A Grocery Stop
Recharge yourself at Reid's Fine Foods (Seventh Street between College and Brevard Streets; 704-377-1312), an upscale grocery store that has been in business since 1928. On Saturday mornings, the store's bakery turns out croissants filled with cream cheese or jam ($1.29), apple and cherry strudel ($1.29) and almost a dozen kinds of muffins ($1.59). From the coffee bar you can get espressos, lattes or cappuccinos. For a real taste of the Carolinas, pick up a fiery Blenheim Ginger Ale (99 cents), which has achieved cult status. Carry your haul a few blocks away, to the Fourth Ward Park, a patch of greenery just beyond the skyscrapers. Then wander the narrow streets of the Fourth Ward, a leafy neighborhood of quiet fountains, aromatic wildflowers and charmingly restored Victorian homes.

10 a.m.

5. A Quilt of Garbage
Backtrack a few blocks and visit the Mint Museum of Craft and Design (220 North Tryon Street; 704-337-2000), occupying a renovated department store among the Uptown towers. Don't expect to find only folksy, backwoods creations: the museum's vibe is avant-garde, stylish and contemporary. You'll find fanciful animals made from beer cans by an anonymous South African artist; a quilt made from garbage discarded along a trail in New Mexico; and a pair of bracelets that turn tiny glass beads into Warhol-style portraits of the Dalai Lama and the Mulder and Scully characters from the "X-Files." Save your ticket stub ($6 adults); it allows admission to the Mint Museum of Art (2730 Randolph Road; 704-337-2000), the craft museum's older sibling.

11:15 a.m.

6. Meet the New South
Just a few blocks from the craft museum, the Levine Museum of the New South, (200 East Seventh Street; 704-333-1887) offers a hard-hitting social history of Charlotte and the South, beginning just after the Civil War. The exhibition includes a reproduction of a tenant farmer's house and "white" and "colored" water-fountain signs from Charlotte City Hall. The story concludes with discussions of suburban sprawl, economic growth, ethnic diversity -- and Nascar. Visitors are encouraged to express themselves by posting notes, which recently ranged from "this kind of stuff is so cool!" to "I think is boring." Admission is $6.

12:30 p.m.

7. Chicken Run
Return to the South End and get in line at Price's Chicken Coop (1614 Camden Road; 704-333-9866), the home of perhaps the best fried chicken in Charlotte, and beyond, since 1962. Orders are for take-out only, and everything is packed in a box for easy mobility: fried chicken, tater-rounds, hush puppies, cole-slaw, a roll and sweet tea, all for less than $6. A pleasant spot for a picnic is Latta Park a few blocks away.

1:45 p.m.

8. Time to Shop
If you're at Latta Park, you'll find youself in the heart of the pleasant Dilworth neighborhood, an early Charlotte suburb with a lot of porches and handsome wood-frame houses circa 1910. Get a feel for the area while making the short drive to Paper Skyscraper (330 East Boulevard; 704-333-7130), which is filled with chic paper goods, stationery and cutting-edge housewares, and a selection of art, architecture and design books that beats that at the Mint Museum.

8 p.m.

9. Le Cuisine Charlotte
It's located in a shopping center in the middle of suburbia, but Patou (2400 Park Road; 704-376-2233) offers first-rate French cuisine. Start with a hot crab cake set on a cool layer of minced tomatoes, avocado and capers ($9.95). Move on to the bourride de poisson ($17.95), the steamed mussels ($7.95) or the steak frites ($19.95). For dessert: the mousse au chocolat ($6.95).

Sunday

Noon

10. Birds of Prey
Thirteen miles northwest of Uptown, in Huntersville, is the Carolina Raptor Center (5225 Sample Road; 704-875-2312), one of the nation's largest refuges for injured owls, hawks, eagles, condors and other birds of prey. It takes in about 700 birds a year, almost half hurt by automobiles. The animals that can be reconditioned (they learn to fly again in large cages and get remedial training in mouse hunting) are returned to the wild. Others are used in the center's educational programs.

2 p.m.

11. Hot Food, Cool Mascot
For a bird of a different feather, head to the Penguin Drive-In (1921 Commonwealth Avenue; 704-375-6959), a 1950's drive-in that was given a face-lift a few years ago. It's popular with the trucker-cap crowd, and the beer includes labels like Schlitz and Pabst. The food runs to hot dogs ($1.95) and fried pickles ($2.95), along with a barbecue plate ($6.95) and Brunswick stew ($3.95). If you're not in the mood for beer, try Cheerwine, a regional cherry-flavored soda.

THE BASICS
Visiting Charlotte
Charlotte/Douglas International Airport is served by most major airlines and car-rental companies. 
When the Dunhill Hotel (237 North Tryon Street; 704-332-4141 or 800-354-4141) opened in 1929, it was the tallest building in town -- at 10 stories. It is now on the National Trust for Historic Preservation's list of historic American hotels. It has 60 rooms and looks out on the Uptown neighborhood. The weekend bed-and-breakfast rate starts at $139 a night.
On a smaller scale, the Homeplace (5901 Sardis Road; 704-365-1936), in South Charlotte, has just three rooms. It is in a Victorian-style house on two and a half acres in a residential neighborhood. Rooms are $115 to $125 a night, breakfast included.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Nell Redmond for The New York Times) Map of North Carolina highlighting Charlotte and points of interest. (Drawing by Steven Shukow for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); MERGERS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: JACOBSON, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) CHARLOTTE (NC); NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



308 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2595 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
Cuba: You Can't Get There From Here . . .

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
FOR a 52-year-old Manhattan lawyer, there is a lot about Cuba that is alluring, from the beaches to the architecture to the music straight out of "Buena Vista Social Club." But the real draw of traveling to Cuba: it is illegal. "There's certainly an excitement to going somewhere that's off limits," the man said, speaking on condition of anonymity. He said he had been to Cuba three times, most recently for a weekend trip in late 2001.
 Indeed, he is only one of a select group of travelers who have made going to Cuba for a weekend -- and doing it illegally by traveling through Canada, Mexico, the Bahamas or some other third country -- a notch on the belt for the American tourist eager to say he has traveled to a forbidden land. 
 Over the last months, American travel to Cuba has been caught in a tug of war between President Bush and Congress. In September, the House voted to end enforcement of the longstanding travel ban, followed by the Senate last month, but this week a joint committee stripped the provision from an appropriations bill. 
While other Americans eager to experience the country of Fidel Castro and Cohiba cigars may have been disappointed by the committee's move, some Havana travelers are just as happy with the status quo. "The fact of the illegality makes it appealing," said an Atlanta entrepreneur in his 30's who said he had been there seven times alone this year. "The fact that there's a place on earth that our government does not want us to see is itself an attraction."
For this man (like most of the people interviewed for this article he would talk only on condition of anonymity or that only a first name be used), long weekends in Cuba have become almost routine, he said, since he met his current girlfriend, who lives in Havana, when he was there in 2001. This year alone, he said, he has been seven times, in a well-planned evasion of federal law. On Friday morning, he takes the first flight of the day from Atlanta to Nassau, then boards the 2:30 p.m. Nassau-Havana flight on Cubana de Aviacion, the Cuban national carrier, arriving around 4 p.m. On the way back on Monday, he leaves Havana at noon. He is back in Atlanta in time for dinner. 
FOR Americans, traveling to Cuba is not actually illegal, but it might as well be. Since 1963, the United States has prohibited its citizens from spending money in Cuba, with exceptions for students, journalists, Cuban-Americans and others who the government says have legal reasons to travel there. For all other tourists, unless they can figure out how to spend no money in Cuba, going there means risking a $7,500 fine even if they travel through a third country.
Enforcement of the ban has waxed and waned over the years. As both the House and Senate recently voted to end enforcing it, President Bush vowed to crack down on illegal travelers, saying they were abetting a repressive Cuban government. It was seen as a victory for the president when the provision ending enforcement of the ban was removed from the appropriations bill. The administration's position, as R. Richard Newcomb, director of the Foreign Assets Control Office at the Treasury Department, told a House subcommittee last month, is that "tourist dollars provide vital hard currency that Castro and his cronies use to continue to oppress Cuba." 
Opponents of the ban, meanwhile, say preventing Americans from traveling freely is unconstitutional, even bizarre, and that the lack of tourism hurts the Cuban people the same way the larger trade embargo does, by starving the economy and encouraging the longevity of a repressive state.
Regardless of who is right, for now, going to Cuba as a tourist is an exercise in careful planning, covering your tracks and keeping your nerve.
Especially keeping your nerve. Keith, a 44-year-old photographer in New York, said that he first started thinking of going to Havana when a friend came back with a bunch of cigars that he sold at a hefty profit. Additionally, he said his friend recommended it because of his photography. " 'You'll love it,' he said. 'You have to go before they lift the embargo,' " Keith said.
It took several years, Keith said, before he persuaded himself to take the risk. Then "all I know is that I was on the phone with the airlines booking the flights," he said. He traveled through Montego Bay, Jamaica, flying the leg to Havana on Cubana. "I was in total shock the first 10 minutes after leaving the airport in Havana," he said. "If you've ever seen a war-torn country, it reminds you of that. Everything is busted." 
On the way back into the United States, Keith said, he was nervous about going through customs at Kennedy Airport. "You feel like you're smuggling drugs, even if you're not smuggling anything," he said. So when the customs agent going through his bag asked where he'd been, he was prepared with a tale of his trip to Jamaica. But he'd overlooked one detail: the book about Cuba that he had left in his luggage.
Keith saysthe customs agent asked him about the book, and he replied that it was just reading material. After the agent also turned up a Cuban newspaper -- and an art magazine Keith had been given by a Cuban gallery -- he confessed. "I said, 'All right, that's it, I went to Cuba,' " he said.
But with 150 rolls of film in his bag, he was able to convince the agent that he had been to Havana on a cultural exchange and was waved through. Besides, he said, "they were really more interested in someone smuggling drugs out of Jamaica than a photographer coming from Cuba."
Did that brush with the law deter Keith from going back? Hardly. He said that he had been seven more times and planned another trip in January. 
B OOKING a flight to Cuba is not as simple as logging onto Travelocity or Expedia. Most Americans who travel there illegally require two round-trip reservations, one from their home city to their connection point (usually Toronto, Cancun, Nassau or Montego Bay), and one from there to Cuba, flying Cubana, Air Canada, Aeromexico, Air Jamaica or Lacsa, the Costa Rican national carrier. Most people book the first leg of travel as usual, then find a Canadian or other foreign travel agent to reserve the flight to Cuba. That is what Veronica, a business student who recently traveled to Havana with her husband, did. Although she was nervous about charging it on her credit card, the agent at the Carson Wagonlit Travel office in Toronto reassured her that her destination would not appear on any statement. It did not. The Manhattan lawyer who took the weekend trip in late 2001, said that he preferred to reserve the flight and pay in cash at the ticket counter. 
Some travelers, like David Heslop of Carrboro, N.C., even book tour packages. Mr. Heslop found a Web site for USA Cuba Travel, based in Canada, and booked an all-inclusive trip that included hotel stays in several cities. The next two times, however, he opted for the other popular choice, a casa particular, or private home, where Cubans pay a licensing fee for permission to be hosts to tourists. 
The rooms, which go for about $20 a night, are hard to reserve in advance, though numerous casas are listed in guidebooks. There are Cubans who roam tourist areas offering to find houses (and just about anything else) for travelers, usually in exchange for a commission from the business owner. Some unlicensed houses also accept tourists but are constantly on watch for government inspectors and have been known to kick out guests if a raid is rumored.
"We have always stayed in unlicensed private homes," said a 70-year-old Manhattan stockbroker who said he had been to Cuba six times, the first time in 1995. "They charge $30 a night, and they make us breakfast." The notion of going to Cuba illegally never worried him. "I like to live on the brink," he said. "I was willing to take my chances." But he does acknowledge that he feels a "little bit of paranoia," coming back through customs, as he usually carries three boxes of Monte Cristo No. 4 and Cohiba cigars. "I know I've done what I'm not supposed to do," he said. 
One issue for Americans who go to Cuba on the sly is money. Tourists from other countries happily use their credit and A.T.M. cards, but Americans must bring cash (or make arrangements with foreign banks). Although Cuban pesos are theoretically the official currency, they are all but useless for tourists beyond buying ice cream and snacks in the street. Most restaurants and all hotels accept only dollars (or the colorful and confusing convertible pesos, which are pegged to the dollar). 
On his first trip, Mr. Heslop, 41, a technical support supervisor, overdid it: he took several thousand dollars, divided and stashed in different places, even though his hotels were prepaid. On his second trip, an impromptu jaunt from Cancun to Havana later the same year, he took only $500 for 10 days. "I ended up scrimping and losing some weight," he said. The latest time, in December 2000, he tried a different way: Transcard, a Canadian service that works as a debit card. It was complicated to get, he said, but worth it. 
Those who haven't done their homework can get in trouble. Angel A. Rivera, Angel Ferez and two other friends who went to Havana in October for a bachelor party did not realize that their credit cards would be useless. "We felt like Cubans," Mr. Rivera said. "We were watching every penny." On their last day, they left just enough for a taxi to the airport, and then were stunned by the $25-a-person airport tax. A sympathetic Canadian lent them the money.
Then there's the big question: will Cuban immigration stamp your passport? Reports differ. Some travelers said that officials simply do not; others said a polite no-stamp request is all it takes; still others said they were asked for a bribe. But many are surprised, upon going through United States Customs, to discover that Cuban officials stamped their passport with a small, almost illegible mark on Page 16. Small and illegible, maybe, but familiar to United States authorities who often turn right to that page if they suspect a visitor has been in Cuba. Lisa Wixon, a 33-year-old from Manhattan who is writing a novel about Havana, said that she had accidently escaped notice by asking the Cubans for personal reasons to stamp her passport on Page 8; when she returned to the United States, the officials skipped right over it on the way to Page 16. 
Stamp or no stamp, American travelers inevitably say, the most nerve-racking part of the trip is returning through customs. Some, especially those who live near the Mexican and Canadian borders, avoid the problem by flying into Toronto or Tijuana and crossing the border by land, lost in a flood of Niagara Falls tourists or tequila-toting day-trippers. Some who go through customs are careful almost to a fault, disposing of all receipts and even erasing addresses from Palm Pilots.
It's a precaution worth taking because the number of proceedings against American travelers to Cuba has more than doubled since the start of the Bush administration. Mr. Heslop's luck ran out on the third trip. After he flew Cubana from Havana to Cancun and US Airways from Cancun to Charlotte, N.C., customs officers picked him out without even opening a suitcase. 
"They asked me if I'd been to Cuba, and I said no," he said. "And they asked me if I'd been to Cuba, and I said no. And they asked again, and I said yes. It was clear they knew. The agent was staring me straight in the eyes and he just knew." Mr. Heslop, who said that the government offered to settle with him for a $1,100 fine, which he has so far declined, added that he suspected that Mexican officials might have tipped off customs about him and another passenger. 
"The other woman was a librarian from Iowa," he said. "We were a pretty subversive group." 
WHILE Cuba retains a powerful attraction for many travelers, others return disillusioned or depressed. The music is undeniably great, they say, and the people are warm and the beaches beautiful. But other common sights are more disquieting: older tourists hand-in-hand with teenage prostitutes, the crumbling conditions of formerly glorious Old Havana, police officers who question locals just for speaking to foreigners. The country, some travelers find, is a contradiction they cannot unravel during a short stay: free health care but empty pharmacy shelves; brilliant intellectuals but no freedom of expression; cattle throughout the countryside but no beef that most Cubans can afford.
And although there are Cubans who support the government and hate the United States, travelers who do manage to win the trust of Cubans will often hear -- with blinds drawn and voices down to a whisper -- bitter complaints about Mr. Castro and urgent desires to emigrate at all costs.
Veronica said that she had seen poverty before, in Puerto Rico, where her family is from, but when a worker at the Tropicana, where she and her husband were staying, invited them to his home, his family's circumstances took her by surprise. "It was him and his wife and baby and his 39-year-old mother-in-law. They didn't have a stove, just a two-burner thing; they had a sofa and chair and a real old TV and tape player. He makes good money, he makes tips -- but it just didn't look that way. I've never seen people so frustrated." 
Even more surprising to some Americans who make the trip is just how much company they have, from Europeans and especially Canadians, many of whom see Cuba as little more than a cheap way to get out of the cold. "We have a harsh winter up here," said Virgil Palermo, sales director for the Toronto office of Sol y Son Vacations, a Canadian tour operator specializing in Cuba. "The beach is the main thing. It's a sun destination."
Perhaps that says it all. Americans see Cuba as forbidden fruit, one of the world's few remaining Communist countries, a place of mystery and danger, going back to the days of the Cuban missile crisis. To Canadians, it is just another Cancun.

THE LAW
Forbidden Island: At What Price?
THE government grants two kinds of licenses to travelers who want to visit Cuba legally.
General licenses are for some journalists and other researchers and Americans with close relatives in Cuba. Such travel does not require prior approval, though travelers may be asked to prove that they qualify for it. The other type of permission, called a specific license, requires an application and can be granted for things like formal study, religious activities and humanitarian purposes.
The Foreign Assets Control Office of the Treasury Department is responsible for enforcing the ban on spending money in Cuba by Americans, and a typical penalty for tourist travel without a license is $7,500; the government often reaches settlements with travelers for less than that, though it can seek higher penalties. Those caught can also request hearings, a common tactic because for years no judges were assigned to conduct them.
On Wednesday, leaders of a Congressional conference committee removed a provision from an appropriations bill that would have effectively ended limitations on travel to Cuba by eliminating financing for enforcement. President Bush, who was likely to veto the bill if the provision was maintained, said last month that the United States would tighten enforcement of the restrictions, and two judges were assigned to begin hearings. Separately, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee cleared a measure last week that would block the president from limiting travel to Cuba; it is not likely to reach the full Senate before next year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A COUNTRY OF CRUMBLING CHARM -- Many American tourists find Cuba to have a dingy dignity. A storefront in the southeastern city of Santiago advertises clothes at good prices. (Photo by The New York Times); FACES OF A NATION -- Girls take shelter from the rain in Santiago. While visitors report many troubling things about life in Cuba, they say they find the people to be warm. (Photo by The New York Times); STREET SCENE -- Cuban boys make their own playground in a quiet neighborhood. (Photo by The New York Times)(pg. F2) Drawing (Drawing by Arnold Roth)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (54%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BAHAMAS (79%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



309 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Manilow's Musical Shuts Down Production 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
"Harmony," a Broadway-bound musical written by Barry Manilow and Bruce Sussman, unexpectedly shut down production yesterday morning after it became apparent that its producers were millions of dollars short of capitalizing the show.
 Brent Peek, the production's general manager, broke the news to a stunned cast about 10 a.m. at the Ford Center for the Performing Arts on West 43rd Street, where "Harmony" was rehearsing. The show was to have started performances at the Forrest Theater in Philadelphia on Dec. 2, with an eye toward a Broadway opening next spring. 
 "They're in complete shock," said David Warren, the director. "They were ready to start this thing, and now it's over." 
With original music by Mr. Manilow, the popular 1970's and 80's singer, and a book and lyrics by Mr. Sussman, "Harmony" tells the story of the Comedian Harmonists, the vaudevillian German sextet, during the fall of the Weimar Republic.
It was originally produced in 1997 at the La Jolla Playhouse in California. It received mixed reviews but had been rumored to be coming to Broadway several times since that production. In its current incarnation, the show featured Brian d'Arcy James, leading a cast with 26 other now newly unemployed actors.
Mark Schwartz, the show's lead producer, was not on hand at the Ford Center. But speaking later from his home in Jupiter, Fla., Mr. Schwartz said that he had been forced to cancel the show after several promises from investors fell through.
"It's a complicated and very unfortunate situation, but basically what happened is, we just ran out of financing," he said. "A lot of people said they were putting in money, and it ended up they didn't."
Mr. Schwartz said that the production had started rehearsals in early October with about $1 million in the bank and a projected budget of somewhere around $7 million. Most Broadway productions are fully capitalized at this stage, and Mr. Schwartz's $1 million apparently began to run out in recent weeks.
Mr. Warren said that the first indication of problems came two weeks ago when he was told that costume-shop personnel had not been paid. 
"I called Mark and said, 'Are we headed into something bad?' and he said: 'You have my word. We've identified all the money,' " Mr. Warren said. "Then the money began to flow again, and he said the problem was solved." That cash flow may have come from a $1.5 million loan Mr. Schwartz said he took out on his Jupiter home, which he says he now maylose as a result of the show's cancellation. "I tried everything right up until the very end," he said.
The situation apparently became critical last Friday when a technical load-in at the Forrest Theater was called off for lack of payments to the theater owners and crew.
In the days since, the creative team had tried frantically to find other investors -- including running the show twice this week for potential producers -- but to no avail. Mr. Schwartz, who has a half-dozen Broadway producing credits, including the 1999 flop "Epic Proportions" and the successful 1983 show "My One and Only," said "Harmony" remained some $3 million short of what it needed for its Philadelphia run.
For his part, Mr. Warren said he was still holding out hope that the show would be seen on Broadway.
"Barry and Bruce and I were utterly blindsided by this," Mr. Warren said. "I'm owed money and that's a problem, but that's not why my heart is breaking. It's breaking because I think it's a great show."
Mr. Manilow, who was on a plane yesterday afternoon, also sounded angry at his producer. "My heart breaks for the hundreds of talented men and women who will be hurt by this colossal blunder," he said in a statement. "We all deeply hope that this situation can be corrected and that this powerful piece will finally be seen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry Manilow, who wrote the music for "Harmony," which had been headed for Philadelphia with an eye on Broadway until financial troubles grounded it yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COSTUME SHOPS (75%); THEATER (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%) THEATER 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE; MANILOW, BARRY; SUSSMAN, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (69%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (69%); GERMANY (56%)

TITLE: HARMONY (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



310 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Op-Chart 

BYLINE:  By ADRIANA LINS de ALBUQUERQUE, MICHAEL OHANLON AND JELLY ASSOCIATES; Adriana Lins de Albuquerque and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, senior research assistant and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Jelly Associates is a graphic design firm in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
How are things really going in Iraq? That's a tricky question. First, it is inherently difficult to measure progress in counterinsurgency warfare and nation-building efforts. 
Second, reports of the latest violence -- including the deaths of more than 50 American and other coalition troops in the first two weeks of November -- and the highly partisan debate in Washington dominate the news coverage, overshadowing more in-depth analysis. 
 This chart, compiled largely using United States government information, tracks a number of trends in Iraq that can help shed light on how the situation is evolving. Of course, this being war, the data is inevitably fluid, subject to constant updating by the government. Nevertheless, what we have is still better than the filtered information usually heard from the true believers of the left and right. 
 A few main messages emerge. For starters, violence against coalition troops has increased as the occupation has lengthened and, in regard to the all-important objective of winning Iraqi hearts and minds, unemployment rates are still too high. However, most other trends are encouraging -- declining crime rates in Baghdad, increasing numbers of Iraqi police officers being trained, and telephone and water services at about 80 percent of pre-war levels. Once one accepts the premise that the United States and its partners are still at war in Iraq, and that the mission there is clearly the most challenging American military operation since the Vietnam War, the most accurate long-term outlook is one of guarded optimism.

GRAPHIC: Chart highlighting security indicators and economic trends in postwar Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TERRORISM (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); POLICE FORCES (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; WATER; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: JELLY ASSOCIATES 

PERSON: O'HANLON, MICHAEL; LINS DE ALBUQUERQUE, ADRIANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



311 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Cabinet Shake-Up Spoils Colombia's Effort to Cast Stable Image 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Nov. 13 

 BODY:
After taking office 15 months ago, President Alvaro Uribe said his ministers would remain with him throughout his four-year term, a pledge aimed at casting an image of stability and purpose in a nation where governments are usually scorned. 
 But in the last seven days, Mr. Uribe's reputation has been tarnished with the resignations, in quick succession, of three cabinet ministers, the armed forces commander and the chief of the Colombian National Police. 
 Cabinet shake-ups are common here and elsewhere in Latin America after political setbacks, and Mr. Uribe's first political defeat came last month when voters rejected a referendum that would have handed him new powers over state spending. 
But the resignations here, announced one day after the other in dour news conferences without explanation, have led many in Colombia to question Mr. Uribe's right-leaning administration. 
"The change in ministers, little by little, leaves the image that fires are being put out in an improvised manner," Rodrigo Pardo said in his column on Thursday in El Tiempo, the nation's top newspaper. 
Fernando Cepeda, a former interior minister, said the changes will rejuvenate the cabinet and clear out government officials who had become a liability. But Mr. Cepeda said Mr. Uribe should have accepted all the resignations the same day, a tradition that sits well with voters, and offered an explanation. 
"It's not a crisis, but the way this is happening -- instead of coming naturally in a way that strengthens the government -- gives the sensation of crisis," he said. 
Officials in Mr. Uribe's administration, which enjoys strong backing from the Bush administration in its war against three insurgencies, said that Mr. Uribe, in his drive to break with the past, did not want to carry out the traditional one-day house cleaning of the cabinet. 
They said that the departure of Interior and Justice Minister Fernando Londono on Nov. 6 was necessary because he failed to win approval of the referendum in an Oct. 25 election. Mr. Londono's relationship with Congress was also dismal. 
The loss of the referendum means Mr. Uribe must try to obtain the fiscal controls he seeks by pushing legislation through Congress, which has been emboldened by the failure of the referendum and is now more likely to challenge his policies. 
Mr. Uribe also welcomed the resignation of Defense Minister Marta Lucia Ramirez, whose clashes with several generals and outspoken manner were seen as counterproductive, a government official said. 
"I think what the president has done is remove the two most controversial people from the government, people who were creating problems for the government," the official said. 
Supporters of the shake-up in the security forces -- the resignations of General Jorge Mora, the armed forces commander, and Teodoro Campo, who headed the police -- say it will help invigorate the armed forces, particularly a police force scarred by recent scandals. 
The cabinet replacements could not have been more at odds with those who left. Sabas Pretelt, the amiable director of the National Federation of Retailers, is taking over the Interior and Justice Ministry from Mr. Londono, who was seen as arrogant and difficult. The new defense minister is Jorge Alberto Uribe, 63, a respected, American-trained economist and businessman who is a close friend of Mr. Uribe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); APPROVALS (66%); LEGISLATION (62%) 

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (92%) Juan Forero; Alvaro (Pres) Uribe

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%) COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%) Colombia

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



312 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Law Gives Africa Hope and Hard Jobs 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: BUGOLOBI, Uganda 

 BODY:
Uganda is banking its future on 1,400 girls young women, really -- plucked from their villages around the country and plopped down in front of row upon row of sewing machines at a vast factory here outside the capital. 
 Every time they stitch a pocket, attach a button or hem a skirt, the leaders of the land tell them, they are performing acts of patriotism that will help transform this country's economy. 
 These are the AGOA girls, as the Ugandans call them, named for the American trade legislation that lured their employer, Tri-Star Apparel, from Sri Lanka to Uganda. 
To hear President Yoweri Museveni tell it, AGOA, the African Growth and Opportunity Act, approved by Congress in 2000, is the best thing the West has done for Africa since independence. 
AGOA, which reduced or eliminated tariffs and quotas on more than 1,800 items, has drawn similar factories across Africa as foreign investors, mostly from Asia, seize upon its incentives to give this underdeveloped continent a chance. 
For workers the job can be as grueling as a day in the fields, still Africa's most common way of making a living. The Tri-Star workers, all new to formal employment, say their shoulders ache and their feet swell by quitting time, which bosses sometimes extend into the evening if a big deadline looms. 
But at least they have work. Job creation has been dramatic. For the first time in some African countries, the largest employer is no longer the federal government but a private enterprise. Kenya has projected 50,000 AGOA-related jobs. Lesotho estimates it has created 10,000 new jobs in the last year, most of them going to young women. 
"Made in Uganda," say some of the tags on clothing sent to Target, Mervyn's and the Children's Place. "Made in Lesotho," say others bound for stores like the Gap and Limited.
The labels, representing a tiny percentage of apparel imports to the United States, give tremendous pride to countries that have long been at the margins of the global trading system. 
Although products from oil to umbrellas to fresh yams are included under the trade law, clothing exports appear to be giving stagnant African economies the biggest stimulus. 
Foreign apparel manufacturers, mostly from Asia, have made a beeline to Africa, mostly because the trade law allows them to sidestep quotas that limit the apparel they may export from Asia to the United States. By shifting to Africa, manufacturers can operate quota free under the law. 
Uganda has seen its exports to the United States increase from a minuscule $32,000 in 2002 to $909,000 in the first nine months of this year, an increase that will widen by year's end.
The biggest winner may be tiny Lesotho, which has become the largest African apparel exporter to the United States. Its exports grew from $129.5 million in 2001 to $267.7 million by the end of this September, according to United States government statistics. 
While jobs have been created, most of those getting rich from AGOA are not Africans but Asian investors, rising numbers of whom have returned to Uganda after being expelled in the 1970's by the former dictator Idi Amin. 
To fill the jobs, Uganda had a countrywide recruiting campaign, with government officials aiding in the process. Workers take home $40 a month, live in a company dormitory and eat three free meals a day at the company canteen. The jobs attract plenty of interest among Africa's legion of unemployed even if workers sometimes complain that the salaries -- above average in the local market -- go far quicker than they imagined.
"The products we're making are fetching a lot of money," said Rebecca Bagonza, 28, who has a diploma in social work but could find no other job than the one at Tri-Star. "Shouldn't the people who make the clothes get some of that money?"
She is not the only AGOA girl who has not completely bought into Mr. Museveni's economic blueprint for the country. The introduction of factories has also introduced something relatively rare in Africa: the labor dispute. 
In an embarrassment to the president, who visited Washington earlier this month to urge American officials to extend AGOA benefits, hundreds of Uganda's AGOA workers recently walked off their jobs, accusing their supervisors of exploiting them. The AGOA girls wanted to form a union, a kind of protection that is weak in Uganda and throughout Africa.
The boss at Tri-Star, Veluppillai Kananathan, a Sri Lankan businessman, promptly fired nearly 300 workers whom he considered trouble makers.
The women marched to Parliament, camped on the lawn for nearly a week and won the sympathy of some top government officials. "The AGOA girls have a legitimate case," Dr. David Ogaram, the labor commissioner, said.
But Mr. Kananathan has connections at the top. He rebuffed attempts by officials to inspect the factory and ignored an order from the High Court to reinstate the workers.
In an interview, he likened his job to that of a father with a very large, unruly family. "The bad girls are gone," he said, strolling through the factory to show that his hundreds of sewing machines were back up and running.
Challenges remain if AGOA is going to have any lasting economic effect. To get into the market, Uganda has heavily subsidized Tri-Star, giving it an abandoned factory, waiving taxes and paying for six months of training for the workers to introduce them to sewing machines. The government gets social security tax on the workers' modest salaries and utility fees on the company's water and electricity.
But Ugandan officials hope Tri-Star is just one of many such factories that will eventually open their doors. Uganda wants to export more of the country's fresh flowers, vanilla and organic produce.
By showing that Uganda is capable of international trade, Mr. Museveni hopes to shed the country's reliance on foreign aid. But African countries must be wary about counting too much on AGOA.
The trade law is set to expire in 2008, a short time away for investors, although there is a move to extend it another seven years.
Even if AGOA remains on the books, a prime benefit that the trade law provides will be undermined in 2005 when World Trade Organization quotas on clothing and textiles expire. The elimination of the quotas will take away one of the most powerful incentives that foreign businesses now have to invest in Africa.
Next year, AGOA could be weakened in another way. As it is now, most of the apparel shipped to the United States from Africa comes from fabric made outside the continent, usually from Asia. Unless a waiver is approved by Congress, AGOA will soon require that the fabric originate in Africa.
That sounds like just what would be needed to restart Africa's shuttered textile mills. But more likely, experts say, such a requirement would raise costs for the apparel factories and prompt many of them to move out of Africa.
The lobbying campaign to improve AGOA has already begun in the halls of Congress. But a stumbling block has emerged: trade officials in the Bush administration are upset at Africa's defiant stand against trade subsidies at the recent trade organization talks in Cancun, Mexico. Enhancing AGOA is not on the fast track, officials say.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tri-Star Apparel factory in Uganda hires AGOA girls, named for the African Growth and Opportunity Act, which is stimulating the economy. (Photo by Vanessa Vick for The New York Times)(pg. A1); After a group of Tri-Star Apparel workers were fired for trying to form a union, some, including Tracie Forence, above, appealed to Parliament. (Photo by Vanessa Vick for The New York Times)(pg. A12) Chart: "Made in Africa"Since the African Growth and Opportunity Act was approved by Congress in 2000, clothing exports have helped stimulate African economies. Africa's top apparel exporters to the United States in 2002In millions Lesotho2001: $129.52002: $317.8Jan.-Sept.2002: $248.02003: $267.7Percentage change: 7.9% Kenya2001: 51.52002: 121.9Jan.-Sept.2002: 85.42003: 136.4Percentage change: 59.7 Mauritius2001: 38.92002: 106.5Jan.-Sept.2002: 80.72003: 106.5Percentage change: 32.0 South Africa2001: 30.62002: 84.7Jan.-Sept.2002: 60.12003: 92.0Percentage change: 53.0 Madagascar2001: 92.12002: 75.6Jan.-Sept.2002: 67.32003: 123.0Percentage change: 82.9 (Sources by U.S. Department of Commerce; U.S. Treasury; U.S. International Trade Commission)(pg. A12) Map of Africa highlighting Bugolobi: The Tri-Star Apparel factory is in Bugolobi, a suburb of Kampala. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); METADATA MANAGEMENT (71%); APPROVALS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (79%) AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UGANDA (95%); LESOTHO (94%); ASIA (93%); KENYA (93%); MAURITIUS (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%) AFRICA; UNITED STATES; KENYA; UGANDA; LESOTHO

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



313 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Widens, Exceeding Forecast 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13 

 BODY:
The trade deficit widened to more than $41 billion in September, the Commerce Department reported on Thursday, as imports rose to a monthly high. Exports, though, also posted a solid gain. 
 The latest snapshot of the country's trade activity showed that the trade gap increased 4.4 percent in September from August's $39.5 billion. The monthly deficit was slightly larger than the $40.4 billion that economists were forecasting. 
Imports of goods and services totaled $127.43 billion, a 3.3 percent increase from the month before. The politically sensitive trade deficit with China also reached a record high in September.
 Exports totaled $86.16 billion, a 2.8 percent increase from August and the highest level since May 2001. A weaker dollar is making exports less expensive to foreign buyers. 
 "Given the sharp decline of exports in recent years, this is heartening news," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
 The trade deficit with Japan widened to $5.1 billion in September, up from $4.8 billion in August. The deficit with Canada rose to $5.2 billion, the highest monthly level since January 2001.
 The Labor Department reported that new claims for unemployment benefits rose by a seasonally adjusted 13,000, to 366,000 last week. Even with the increase, the level of claims suggested that the labor market was stabilizing, some economists said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Sept. 2003Balance: -$41.27Imports: 127.43Exports: 86.16 Graph shows imports and exports since April 2002. (Source by Commerce Department) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows (in) thousand initial jobless claims and the 4-week moving average since June 2003. (Sources by Labor Department; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); US DOLLAR (68%) UNITED STATESECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



314 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Growth Is Back for French, Germans and Dutch 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 13 

 BODY:
Three major European countries returned to economic growth in the summer, underscoring the momentum of the global recovery and Europe's lagging role in it.
 France, Germany and the Netherlands all reported modest expansions of gross domestic product in the third quarter, after their economies shrank in the previous quarter. For Germany and the Netherlands, which had been in recession, the numbers were a welcome bill of health. 
 But the actual gains -- 0.2 percent in Germany, 0.4 percent in France and 0.1 percent in the Netherlands from the previous quarter -- illustrate that in Europe, the difference between a recession and recovery can be little more than a rounding error. 
 "Europe remains very sluggish," said Daniel Gros, the director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. "What we will have at the end of this year in growth would not be considered adequate in the U.S."
 Much of Europe's resurgence can be traced to the more robust recovery in the United States and the continued growth of China. Americans are buying French fashion while the Chinese are importing German machinery.
 The growth in demand for European exports, particularly those of Germany, has largely offset the negative effects of a rising euro, economists say. As if to confirm that fact, the euro rose again Thursday in trading against the dollar, to $1.168.
 The damaging effect of a strong euro had been widely forecast in Europe. While some exporters, notably Volkswagen, have blamed lower earnings on the currency, the broader fears have not been warranted.
 Across Europe, major corporations reported higher earnings in the latest quarter. Some, like Siemens, Deutsche Telekom and BT, reaped the benefits of stringent cost cutting. Others, like Beate Uhse, Europe's largest chain of sex shops, did better business in France and Germany.
 Beate Uhse, which is based in Flensburg, Germany, and is publicly traded, said it would open five shops this month in Germany, Italy and Poland. Next year, it plans a chain of stores aimed at women.
 Whether Europeans have fully recovered their appetite for spending remains unclear. Germany's recovery has been driven almost wholly by stronger exports. Domestic demand, as measured by retail sales, remains moribund. The Dutch rebound is largely a result of increased government spending.
 Economists attribute the wariness of consumers here to a mix of factors, including the debates in Germany over tax cuts and pension changes, the less flexible labor market and a generally more risk-averse culture.
 "Consumers in Europe react differently to uncertainty than people in the U.S.," Peter Dixon, an economist at Commerzbank in London, said. "Although European companies haven't engaged in massive job cuts, there continues to be a fear of job losses among Europeans."
 In Germany, that fear is amplified by the government's recent overhaul of the labor market, which has scaled back the country's generous unemployment benefits. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder had hoped to revive consumer confidence by accelerating a tax cut to next year from 2005.
 But that proposal is tied up in the Parliament, where the opposition contends it would widen Germany's deficit.
 "People in Germany tend to regard any tax cut as temporary," said Jorg Kramer, chief strategist at Invesco Asset Management in Frankfurt. "They know that deficits today mean higher taxes tomorrow."
 Germany's deficit has put it back in the cross hairs of the European Commission. The commission said Thursday that it would recommend specific steps next week to bring Germany's deficit to below 3 percent of gross domestic product, the ceiling set by the treaty that created the monetary union.
 Although Germany will probably exceed that limit in 2004 for the third consecutive year, its finance minister, Hans Eichel, said it should be spared such treatment as long as it shows a willingness to confront the red ink.
 France, which has also breached the ceiling, plans to present a new plan to reduce its deficit next week in Brussels.
 Analysts said France and Germany would find it harder to flout the rules on fiscal policy, with their economies recovering, and with the European Union scheduled to admit 10 new countries next May.
 "They realize that next year, the enlargement countries will try to play the same game as they have," Mr. Gros said.
 For Europe, fixing the finances of its two biggest members may prove less thorny than figuring out how to jump-start their growth. Even after this latest round of positive figures --France's growth, in particular, exceeded expectations -- most economists expect the 12-nation euro zone to grow no more than 2 percent next year. Germany will be lucky to reach 1.5 percent.
 The reasons for that are deep-rooted, including slower population growth in Europe than in the United States. But outside experts say European leaders must also bear responsibility.
 N. Gregory Mankiw, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said Thursday in Paris that there was "no reason why" Europe should persistently lag behind the United States in growth, except for Europe's failure to act more quickly on economic reform.
 "Europe has traditionally had a more regulated system than the United States," Mr. Mankiw said in a briefing at a two-day conference at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. "There have been advances, but there is still a long way to go."
 Despite the strength of the numbers, and the expectation of another positive report from Italy on Friday, economists said the European Central Bank would probably not alter its interest rate policy. Rates are at 2 percent, a post-World War II low for most of the Continent.
 "We're unlikely to fall back into recession," Mr. Kramer said. "But I expect the E.C.B. will wait until we get better proof of an upswing."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Signs of a Rebound"Though hardly robust, the economies of France, Germany and the Netherlands grew in the third quarter, reversing recent trends. Graph shows the quarterly change in gross domestic product for FRANCE, GERMANY, and the NETHERLANDS. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); LAYOFFS (63%); RETAIL SALES (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (53%); SIEMENS AG (53%); COMMERZBANK AG (50%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (53%); DTE (BIT) (53%); SIN (SWX) (53%); SIE (LSE) (53%); SIE (FRA) (53%); SIE (BIT) (53%); SI (NYSE) (53%); CZB (LSE) (50%); CBK (FRA) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (97%); FRANCE (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



315 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economic Growth Tops Forecast for Quarter 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
Japan's economy grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the third quarter, better than expected, as exports and capital spending continued to buoy the nearly two-year-long recovery.
 The growth rate in gross domestic product was almost twice what economists had expected, though slower than the revised 3.5 percent expansion in the April through June period because cool summer weather reduced consumer spending. 
Still, most private economists agree with the Bank of Japan's recent assessment that the economy will gather steam in the last quarter of this year and grow about 2.5 percent in 2004.
 Their confidence is based on expectations that Japan's exporters will continue to find buyers for their products in markets like the United States and China. Japan's largest corporations are also investing more in plants and equipment to keep up with demand for their cars, electronics and machinery. In addition, companies are restocking their warehouses after several years of drawing down inventories. 
 Last quarter's mild growth should be enough to keep the heat off Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who helped his party retain its parliamentary majority in the election on Sunday. Had the economy slowed more than expected, lawmakers would probably have pressed Mr. Koizumi to abandon his pledge to rein in the growing fiscal deficit and take additional measures to stimulate the economy. The Bank of Japan might have heard more calls to ease its already loose monetary policy.
 Investors took heart from the third-quarter figures, which were better than the 1.3 percent expansion forecast by private industry analysts. In the third quarter, exports and corporate capital spending were again the drivers, though growth was not as robust as in the second quarter. Capital investment grew at an annualized rate of 11.7 percent, while exports rose 11.5 percent. On the other hand, consumer spending, which makes up 55 percent of the economy, rose 0.2 percent. Public investment was unchanged, in line with Mr. Koizumi's austerity plan.
 "Consumer spending was responsible for much of the weakness" in the third quarter, said Shuji Shirota, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. The figures confirmed that Japan's expansion remains heavily reliant on exports and thus on the whims of buyers overseas. In contrast, Japanese consumers remain cautious in the face of high unemployment and rising health care and pension costs, which are expected to drain 3 trillion yen ($27 billion) from consumers' pockets. 
 Without a rally in consumer spending, economists say, Japan's potential growth has been limited and the economy remains vulnerable to events overseas, like a weakening dollar or a slowdown in America. 
 Japan's dependence on exports for growth also leaves it open to criticism by its largest trading partners, who accuse policy makers of weakening the yen to make Japanese goods more attractive to consumers abroad. The Japanese authorities sold a record 7.5 trillion yen ($68 billion) from July to September in an effort to halt the dollar's slide, according to Finance Ministry figures.
 This beggar-thy-neighbor policy, American lawmakers and others say, permits Japan to avoid taking the difficult steps needed to jump-start its domestic economy. With exports strong, politicians have put off deregulating crucial industries and scrapping wasteful subsidies, which make Japan one of the most expensive countries in the world to do business, critics say.
 Japan's recovery, which is the longest in six years, faces other obstacles. The yen's nearly 10 percent surge against the dollar erodes the profits of companies that earn dollars overseas and repatriate them. 
 The yen's rise was a big reason the Nintendo Company, which reported half-year earnings on Thursday, lost money for the first time since it went public more than 30 years ago. Nintendo, which lost 2.9 billion yen ($26 million) in the six months to Sept. 30, was particularly hurt because three-quarters of its sales are overseas. The risk, economists say, is that as profits are pinched, companies will scale back hiring and wage increases. A 10 percent rise in the yen against the dollar over a year takes about 0.2 percentage point off gross domestic product, according to economists' estimates.
 A stronger yen also intensifies Japan's chronic deflation by reducing the price of imported goods and making it harder for companies to raise their prices. According to Friday's figures, prices declined 2.7 percent in the third quarter, adding to a string of declines now in their sixth year.
 Deflation also makes repaying debts more expensive, one of the reasons Japan's banks are still saddled with 44 trillion yen ($400 billion) in nonperforming loans.
 Those bad loans may claim another victim. The government is considering whether to bail out Ashikaga Bank, a troubled regional lender, according to Dow Jones Newswires. The government denied the report, but shares surged on hopes that regulators would step in to support and overhaul other weak banks.
 About the only people who benefit from falling prices are Japan's consumers, and then only if their wages remain the same or rise.
 While many companies are forgoing raises and cutting wages, bonus payments, which typically make up about 10 percent of total income, are rising at the country's healthiest companies. That has helped bolster consumer confidence to a three-year high, although pessimists still outnumber optimists in most surveys.
 Some economists have pointed to a long slide in the savings rate as evidence that Japan's consumers are spending again. Just as many experts, though, say that consumers are dipping into their savings only to maintain their current standard of living and that they will save any future salary increases to create a buffer against rising health care and pension costs.
 This anxiety over the future is a big reason why Japan's consumer spending is muted and why its economy will probably remain tied to conditions overseas.
 "It will be a while before the economy sees a full-fledged recovery," said Mamoru Yamazaki, an economist at Barclays Capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



316 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
PBHG Funds Oust Leaders; Putnam Settles Fraud Case
Trying to contain the deepening investor mistrust, one mutual fund company ousted its founders and another settled a securities fraud case brought against it just two weeks ago.
 The co-founders of PBHG Funds, Harold Baxter and Gary Pilgrim, resigned after it was discovered that Mr. Baxter had engaged in market timing. And Putnam Investments settled the securities fraud lawsuit brought by regulators. Page A1. 

Wal-Mart Falls Short of Estimates
Wal-Mart Stores reported earnings for the third quarter that fell a penny short of analysts' estimates. It was the first time since 1994 that Wal-Mart had failed to exceed expectations. Disappointed investors sent the stock down more than 4 percent. Over all, revenue in the quarter rose 13.1 percent, but pressure on profits, attributed to consumer cautiousness, kept earnings in the middle of the range Wal-Mart had predicted. C3.

3 European Economies Expand
France, Germany and the Netherlands reported modest expansions of gross domestic product in the third quarter. Much of Europe's resurgence can be traced to the more robust recovery in the United States and the continued growth of China. World Business, Section W.

Japan's economy grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the third quarter, better than expected, asexports and capital spending continued to buoy the recovery. C4.

I.B.M. Promotes Supercomputer
I.B.M. plans to introduce today a prototype supercomputer, called Blue Gene/L, that it thinks will have broad uses in high-capacity corporate data centers in the future. C6.

Time Warner Held Talks on AOL Deal
Richard D. Parsons, the chief executive of Time Warner, held talks with executives of the T-Online unit of Deutsche Telekom about a possible merger or joint venture involving Time Warner's America Online division, but the discussions have apparently ended. C3.

Perelman Gives Revlon a Loan
Ronald O. Perelman, who controls 83 percent of Revlon, will lend the company $125 million in addition to the more than $200 million he has already invested or agreed to lend Revlon this year. The cash infusion is being made to keep the company from running out of cash while it negotiates with lenders. C3.

Microsoft May Settle in Europe
Microsoft signaled at a hearing in Brussels that it wanted to reach a settlement of the European Union's antitrust case. C2.

Dell Profit Increases 21%
Third-quarter profit at Dell rose 21 percent, and sales gained 16 percent. C2.

U.S. Trade Gap Widens
The Commerce Department said that the trade deficit increased 4.4 percent, to more than $41 billion in September. C3.

Markets Decline Slightly
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 10.89 points, to 9,837.94. The Nasdaq composite index dipped 5.76 points, to 1,967.35. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,837.94 down 10.89Nasdaq composite -- 1,967.35 down 5.7610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% down 0.13The euro -- $1.1733 up 0.01The dollar -- 108.17 yen down 0.58 Graph: "TODAY" shows producer prices since April.October figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales since April.October figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.2% Graph: "TODAY" shows industrial production figures since April.October figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4% Graph shows Wal-Mart share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (66%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (66%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); DTE (FRA) (54%); DTE (BIT) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (58%); RICHARD D PARSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%) EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (75%); GERMANY (75%); NETHERLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



317 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Reports Say AOL Sought Europe Deal 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
Richard D. Parsons, the chief executive of Time Warner, has held preliminary discussions with executives of the T-Online division of Deutsche Telekom about a possible merger or joint venture involving Time Warner's America Online division, two company executives said yesterday.
 The talks have apparently ended without a deal. The discussions were reported yesterday by the German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung, and the chief executive of Deutsch Telekom, Kai-Uwe Ricke, has publicly denied them. 
"There is nothing on tap, nothing happening," Hans Ehnert, a spokesman for Deutsche Telekom, said yesterday afternoon in a telephone interview. 
 Edward Adler, a spokesman for Time Warner, also dismissed the reports. Referring to the German newspaper account, which also described specific terms that executives at both companies called erroneous, Mr. Adler said: "We are not going to comment on wild rumors and speculation. But it is important to know that America Online delivers over $1 billion in free cash flow to Time Warner each year and that AOL Europe is on a path to profitability as promised in '04. AOL is focused on the strategy we set out for it and it is making great strides toward returning to growth."
 Still, the discussions between the companies illustrate the broad range of options for Time Warner to consider, especially with regard to America Online, as it struggles to reverse the damage to its share price done by Time Warner's sale for AOL stock three years ago.
 The revenue and profits of America Online have shrunk significantly since the height of the Internet boom as the apparent demand for its online advertising evaporated and its users defected to higher-speed Internet services. Time Warner says it hopes the division will return to growth next year, but AOL's business remains in flux and its future is hard to predict. 
 As consumers have gravitated to high-speed Internet connections provided by cable and phone companies, America Online has responded by shifting its focus from selling low-speed dial-up Internet connections to selling a version of its service as an addition to a high-speed connection. But its new service remains untested, leaving doubts about its ability to expand. Questions about its performance are a pivotal variable in investors' expectations for Time Warner.
 AOL's European unit posted its first quarterly profit earlier this year and expects to turn a profit for the next full year, but it faces stiff competition from Internet services tied to entrenched telecommunications companies like Deutsche Telekom.
 T-Online dominates the German market for Internet services, and combining with it could greatly increase America Online's economies of scale in Europe as well as its influence in the big German market.
 Deutsche Telekom, for its part, is trying to expand out of its stable, core telephone business into higher-growth areas, like Internet and mobile phone service. But it is also still wading out of debt that could severely limit its ability to pay Time Warner much in any potential deal. 
 Thomas Middelhoff, the former chairman of the German media company Bertelsmann, helped set up the talks, Time Warner executives briefed on the discussions said. Mr. Middelhoff arranged an early investment in America Online and remains close to its founder, Stephen M. Case, now a director of Time Warner, and friendly with Mr. Parsons.
 Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Middelhoff declined to comment on the subject of any talks. 
 Executives at America Online, which has been the subject of much speculation about a sale or spinoff, said they felt reassured by Time Warner's swift denials.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A headline in Business Day yesterday about preliminary talks on a merger or joint venture between the America Online division of Time Warner and the T-Online unit of Deutsche Telekom referred incorrectly to the disussions. While the parent companies held talks, according to executives briefed on the matter, Time Warner did not seek a deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); MERGERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BROADBAND (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); CASH FLOW (72%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (85%); NEUF CEGETEL SA (85%)

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; T-ONLINE INTERNATIONAL AG; DEUTSCHE TELEKOM 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (90%); DTE (FRA) (85%); DTE (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (85%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (89%) KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D; PARSONS, RICHARD D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



318 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: GUERRILLAS; 
Guerrillas Posing More Danger, Says U.S. Commander for Iraq

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT and DAVID E. SANGER; John F. Burns, in Nasiriya, Iraq, and Norimitsu Onishi, in Tokyo, contributed reporting for this article. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13 

 BODY:
The senior American commander in the Middle East said Thursday that the Unites States-led occupation in Iraq faces no more than 5,000 guerrilla fighters, but that they are increasingly well organized and well financed, and are gradually expanding their attacks to the previously calm north and south.
 His estimate of the scale of the shadowy armed opposition, the most precise from a top commander, came in a broad outline of the military obstacles his forces face. 
 The officer, Gen. John P. Abizaid of the Army, said loyalists to Saddam Hussein -- not foreign terrorists, as some Bush administration officials have said -- pose the greatest danger to American troops and to stability in Iraq. He said these militants were capitalizing on the political and economic turmoil to hire unemployed "angry young men" to do much of their "dirty work." 
As the general described the challenges, President Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, made her own outline of the political steps to be taken in Iraq, acknowledging that the United States was changing course on forming an Iraqi government. 
Speaking to reporters at the White House, she said it was important to"find ways to accelerate the transfer of power to the Iraqis."
"They are clamoring for it, they are, we believe, ready for it," she added. 
Ms. Rice said the administration had been persuaded by the Iraqi Governing Council that writing a constitution would take so long that Iraq and its American occupiers could not wait until it was complete to transfer more civilian authority. 
In brief remarks to reporters, President Bush said the United States was developing a plan to "encourage more Iraqis to assume more responsibility" quickly.
Administration officials said Mr. Bush had approved in broad strokes the formation of a temporary government by the middle of next year.
The urgency has raised new concerns about the administration's policy in Iraq. After a long period of criticism, both here and abroad, that the United States was not moving rapidly enough to hand over power, there is now a growing anxiety that, for domestic political reasons, it may move too rapidly. Page A15. 
General Abizaid, who leads the United States Central Command, offered a sobering assessment of a guerrilla force that is dwarfed by the 155,000 American and allied troops and more than 100,000 Iraqi security forces, but is fighting an increasingly bloody low-intensity war that will claim more American lives.
"The force of people actively armed and operating against us does not exceed 5,000," he said at a news conference at his headquarters at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, Fla., which was broadcast to the Pentagon. "People will say, well, that's a very small number. But when you understand that they're organized in cellular structure, that they have a brutal and determined cadre, that they know how to operate covertly, they have access to a lot of money and a lot of ammunition, you'll understand how dangerous they are." 
Military officials said the general's estimate was based on interrogations of captured fighters and other intelligence. 
With the deaths of some 40 Americans in the past two weeks clearly weighing on him -- and in the shadow of Wednesday's deadly attack on an Italian military compound in Nasiriya -- General Abizaid said United States forces needed better and more timely intelligence to crush those responsible for the roadside bombings, ambushes and mortar attacks. 
"Clearly I feel a sense of urgency," he said. "They're a despicable bunch of thugs that will be defeated."
In Nasiriya, the Italian defense minister, Antonio Martino, toured the bombed compound on Thursday. He told Italian state television outside the headquarters that Italy had "some fairly reliable intelligence information" that the bombing was mounted by a combination of "re-grouped Al Qaeda terrorists" and former members of the Fedayeen Saddam, the most brutal of the paramilitary groups that constituted a private army for Mr. Hussein's family. But he offered no evidence. 
Investigators said they believed that only one vehicle, a Russian-made tanker truck, was used in the bombing, and that it carried two men. 
The death toll in the attack rose to 31, including 18 Italians and 13 Iraqis, and seemed likely to move higher. One of the 22 Italians injured, a 22-year-old soldier, was declared brain dead by doctors at a military hospital in Kuwait. State funerals are planned next week for the Italians, 16 soldiers and military policemen and 2 civilians working with them. 
While Italy has insisted that it will keep its troops in Iraq, the Japanese government, a similarly staunch ally of the Bush administration in its campaign in Iraq, suggested that it would delay sending ground troops. 
The government had expressed its intention to dispatch a small contingent of noncombat troops from its Self-Defense Forces before the end of the year, followed by a larger force next year, in what would amount to the first deployment of Japanese troops to a country at war since the end of World War II.
But the attack on the Italians, in a zone that had been considered relatively safe and that the Japanese had regarded as a possible destination, caused them to backpedal.
"We have consistently felt that we would like to participate in the reconstruction of Iraq as soon as possible," Yasuo Fukuda, the chief cabinet secretary and the government's chief spokesman, said at a news conference. "But we have to consider the changing situation and respond accordingly." 
In one measure of how serious the situation remains in Iraq, six and a half months after Mr. Bush declared major combat operations over, a senior military official confirmed that General Abizaid would soon move about 150 military planners to Qatar from his Central Command base in Tampa, and work from his headquarters in the Persian Gulf state to be closer to the operation in Iraq, where he has been spending most of his time. The move was first reported on ABC and NBC news programs.
General Abizaid said there was increasing evidence that the Baathists were coordinating on a regional level with small numbers of foreign fighters and terrorists, and that the militants might even be close to forming a national leadership to direct the attacks. He did not address the issue of whether Saddam Hussein was directing the attacks. 
"There is some level of coordination that's taken place at very high levels, although I'm not so sure I'd say that there's a national-level resistance leadership," he said. elaborating. "Not yet. It could develop." 
The general said he believed Mr. Hussein was still alive and in Iraq, but dismissed the notion that he planted the seeds for the current insurgency even before the war began last March.
General Abizaid said the military's strategy for defeating the militants relied on stepping up the pressure on the fighters and turning over more security responsibilities to Iraqis. But he was surprisingly blunt in describing the challenges to achieve those goals.
The 100,000 Iraqi security forces "are not as well trained as American and coalition forces yet," he said. "The police, in particular, need an awful lot of work."
In contrast, Ms. Rice painted a more optimistic picture of how the transfer was going, and said there was a compelling reason to put Iraqi forces on the street. 
"I was asked the other day, 'What makes you think the Iraqis will be more competent in dealing with foreign terrorists and with Baathists?' " she said. "And one answer is, 'They will know that they're Baathists and they will know that they're foreign, which is already a very big step ahead.' "
Ms. Rice described the change in the political landscape in Iraq as chiefly one of timing. "It's the time line on the permanent constitution that's really extended," she said.
But other senior officials said that was a coded way of referring to looming arguments over the constitution, which they said were likely to focus on how much autonomy to allow provices, particularly the Kurds in the North, and the sensitive issue of whether Iraq will be a secular state, an Islamic one or something in between.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antonio Martino, Italy's defense minister, in Nasiriya, Iraq, where a suicide bombing attack killed 18 Italians and 13 Iraqis on Wednesday. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TERRORISM (77%); POLITICS (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AIR FORCES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SCHMITT, ERIC; SANGER, DAVID E; ABIZAID, JOHN P (LT GEN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM; RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ITALY (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



319 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Budget Gap In Westchester To Force 236 Layoffs 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
The Westchester County executive, Andrew J. Spano, will announce a budget today that calls for laying off 236 employees in an effort to close an estimated shortfall of more than $100 million in the county's $1.4 billion budget. The layoffs, most of which will come in the Social Services and Health Departments, were the only way the county could avoid a tax increase of nearly 30 percent, Mr. Spano said. 
 "We have to cut right to the bone," Mr. Spano said. Even with the job cuts the county will face a large property tax increase, Mr. Spano said in an interview yesterday, but he said he planned to present options to the County Legislature that would further reduce the increase. 
 "If things remain exactly the way they are with the cuts we will have a 25 percent tax increase, but we have another scenario that we think will bring that down," Mr. Spano said.
Like counties across the state, Westchester has faced large budget shortfalls as the economy struggled and the cost of state programs -- like health insurance for the poor under the federal Medicaid program -- have increased dramatically. At the same time, state pension costs have grown. Last year Westchester raised taxes 15 percent and tried to increase its sales tax, but failed to secure permission from the State Legislature.
The budget will strip 181 jobs from the Department of Social Services, turning many over to private companies, and 76 jobs from the Health Department. The county will eliminate a total of 318 jobs, of which 236 are currently filled. The cuts will end several county programs, including one to enforce laws barring sales of tobacco to minors. The offices of family planning programs in Yonkers, White Plains and New Rochelle will be closed, and restaurant and pool inspections and some bus routes will be reduced. Mr. Spano said the cuts would save the county about $23.8 million.
George Oros, leader of the Republican minority in the County Legislature, said that Mr. Spano, a Democrat, should cut deeper. He said that during the difficult battle over the 2003 budget, Republicans offered $45 million in spending cuts, including things like eliminating vacant jobs -- a step Mr. Spano is now taking -- and freezing all unnecessary borrowing.
"You have to nickel and dime it to death," Mr. Oros said. "Think of your own household. Your cable bill may be only $50 a month, but if you don't have money to put food on the table you have to cancel the cable."
Mr. Spano will formally present his budget today, and the Legislature must approve a budget by the end of December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LAYOFFS (92%); COUNTIES (91%); TAX INCREASES (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); MEDICAID (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (62%); FAMILY PLANNING (51%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Government Employees

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; Andrew J Spano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



320 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: New Threat to State Budget: Mandated Education Costs 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 13 

 BODY:
For all the bitterness and discord of this year's legislative session in New York, next year's threatens to be worse as lawmakers struggle with a budget deficit of up to $6 billion while trying to comply with a court order to pump perhaps billions of new dollars into education.
 It is not just that money is tight in New York State and that political leaders in the State Capitol have a poor track record, marked more by gridlock and standoffs than cooperation and compromise. 
 Even in good times, the order, from the Court of Appeals, would be hard to fulfill because school aid is the most volatile issue every year. And these are not good times.
So scarce are the resources and so tangled the politics that many lobbyists and other longtime analysts of the State Legislature predict that the problem might not be solved before the court's deadline in July. 
"This is starting to look like an irresistible force meeting an immovable object," said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat. "I think that Albany insiders are tending to bet on inertia and gridlock as triumphing."
The budget battle brewing in Albany is one that many in the capital say is almost unprecedented. Some legislators, doing quick calculations, said it could cost $1 billion in extra aid to the city and $3 billion to $8 billion to fix the entire state.
Even with the economy picking up and Wall Street's rebound pumping revenues into state and city government coffers, New York has at least a $4.2 billion hole in its budget to fill next year. (The state borrowed that much against money from a tobacco settlement to help balance its current $92.8 billion budget, a one-shot source of revenue.) 
Lawmakers cannot agree on how big the deficit will be, though Gov. George E. Pataki has put it at $6 billion and has described the economy as anemic in an apparent attempt to temper the spending proclivities of legislators.
The court deadline on the education issue, meanwhile, is real. Not resolving the problem could put the issue back in the hands of a judge, who could step into the breach and tell the state what to pay, when and how -- something that no governor or lawmaker relishes.
Given the task ahead, one might expect to find the governor and Legislature working furiously toward a solution. Instead, the State Capitol has been eerily quiet for weeks. The last time either chamber met was on Oct. 8.
Governor Pataki has been traveling the country, supporting local Republicans and making speeches defending the Bush administration's Iraq policies. He is now on vacation, though his aides have declined to say where. (The New York Post reported on Tuesday in its gossip columns that he is in St. Barts.)
Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, has not been particularly visible in the Capitol corridors. Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, lives near Albany and has been in his office working since undergoing treatment for prostate cancer. The last time all three men met was last month, when they came out of a room to announce that they had agreed on nothing. The Legislature officially reconvenes in January.
"This is not fated to be solved easily or soon," said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. "The court told them to determine the answer to a question they haven't been able to answer for decades."
The question is thorny: how to provide a sound basic education to 1.1 million New York City youths. It results from a lawsuit filed in May 1993 by a group called the Campaign for Fiscal Equity. 
The suit accused the state of dodging its constitutional obligation to educate all children, particularly those in New York City, by shortchanging financing. A judge in June ordered the state to figure out what it would cost to offer the city students a sound basic education and to give their schools enough money to do so.
All sides in Albany agree that a solution will cost money, though there is no consensus on whether it will go solely to New York City or to districts statewide, as many lawmakers hope. And this is not just a troubled budget year but also a political one: all 212 state lawmakers are facing re-election next November, a fact that usually makes them reluctant to take bold action.
Even in a nonelection year, such as last year, lawmakers have found it difficult to reach agreement. Their record on a routine fiscal matter is grimly noteworthy; the state budget has been late for 19 straight years.
Bitterness from last year's budget session, when Mr. Bruno, an upstate Republican, and Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, joined forces to override a governor's spending plan for the first time in a quarter-century, is just below the surface.
And because lawmakers voted to raise income and sales taxes and borrowed against the tobacco money to help close last year's $11.5 billion gap, they are thought to have few fiscal gimmicks left.
The state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat, described last year's one-time budget fixes as "a sugar rush." 
"It's fine for a little while, you get past some political problems, and then you get hit twice as bad or three times as bad," he said.
Finding money for education at any time is politically charged. It pits Democrats against Republicans, upstate against downstate, urban against suburban against rural.
Though city officials insist that the court only mandated that the state address financing inequities that hurt New York City public schools, many lawmakers said they believed the solution called for a major reshuffling of education dollars statewide.
Mr. Bruno said in an interview that he would not support a solution that took money from suburban and upstate districts to give more to New York City public schools. "If we fix New York City's underperforming schools and students, how about those that are all across upstate New York in similar districts where they may have comparable performance results?" Mr. Bruno asked.
Mr. Silver agrees, saying the solution the Legislature will reach next year will affect the entire state.
"We're dealing, fundamentally, with the constitutional provision that mandates the state to provide a basic education for all the children of the state," he said. "The people who brought this lawsuit are from New York City, but clearly the principle applies across the state."
For his part, Mr. Pataki said he viewed the court order as a historic chance to dismantle the state's byzantine school-aid formulas. The governor has tried for years to change the way school aid is distributed but has met resistance in the Legislature. At the same time, aides say, the governor favors providing more money for education, though he has not said where the money will come from. 
Jeffrey Lovell, the governor's senior policy adviser, said that the administration was going to be "ambitious and aggressive in dealing with the court directive to try to bring this to a conclusion, and have something in place, in collaboration with the Legislature, that can go forward with the support of the advocacy groups and other interested parties, out there to the judge by July."
How much money will be needed is controversial. Assembly Democrats have been holding hearings around the state and the Senate Republicans have been doing their own analysis to determine what is needed to answer the sound, basic education challenge.
Governor Pataki has formed a commission to study the matter and report back by March 1 -- late in the budget process, city officials and lawmakers complain. 
However the numbers turn up, some lawmakers know they face choosing between the disparate needs of school systems within their districts.
"In my district I have one school, particularly Peekskill, which probably has some of the same issues that you have in New York City," said Assemblywoman Sandra R. Galef, whose district includes parts of Westchester and Putnam Counties. "But for most of my districts, I don't think our schools have the problems that New York City has."
When asked how she would come down on the issue next year, she said, "At this point, I don't know."
Assemblyman Steven Sanders, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairman of the Education Committee, said he believed that the court's deadline would motivate lawmakers to work things out. "We have to implement the reforms and if we do not, a judge has indicated he will impose a decision on us," Mr. Sanders said, "which is the last thing the leaders want to see happen." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); CITIES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%) Suits and Litigation; Education and Schools

PERSON: Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



321 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Once Lost in Pain of Father's Death, Family Finds Hope

BYLINE:  By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Tayshah Armstrong met Bernard Vickers when she was barely 20 years old. Her first impression: they were an unlikely match. He was older, 29, shorter and bigger than the guys she usually went out with, said Ms. Armstrong, now 28.
 Charmed by his sense of humor -- and his you-know-you-like-me attitude -- Ms. Armstrong agreed to see him again. From then on, they were a pair. 
 Within a year, they had a daughter, Bryonna, now 7, and shared a comfortable one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan. 
But home life was not always bliss, Ms. Armstrong conceded. "We challenged each other a lot," she said. Within six months, she and Bryonna moved to her mother's home eight blocks away. 
When one argument ended, it was not long before another started, but silence between them did not last more than a week, she said.
In the time apart, Ms. Armstrong gained a sense of strength, which was exactly what she needed when she found out a year later that Mr. Vickers had an enlarged heart, a condition that can be fatal.
"Knowing that he was sick, we began working through our problems," Ms. Armstrong said. "We stopped fighting and began communicating."
They moved back in together, and this time it stuck. 
From time to time, Mr. Vickers's children from previous relationships came over to their home. But Mr. Vickers had a special bond with Bryonna.
"He spent the most time with her," Ms. Armstrong said. "He lived with us, he saw her every day." 
Mr. Vickers, a restaurant manager, often took Bryonna to work. There, she watched her father adoringly from a bar stool while sipping orange juice.
After a three-year engagement, they decided to have another child and set a date for the wedding.
That was the plan, anyway.
But on March 12, 2000, two weeks before their wedding day, Mr. Vickers had a heart attack and slipped away in front of his pregnant bride-to-be and his daughter. Ms. Armstrong tried CPR, but she could not revive him. Nor could firefighters and paramedics.
After Mr. Vickers's death, Bryonna withdrew. "Before, she was involved with everything." Ms. Armstrong said. "Then it all stopped."
Soon, Bryonna was referred to therapy sessions at the Dunlevy-Milbank Center, a beneficiary of the Children's Aid Society, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
There, at her own pace, Bryonna began working through her anxiety. "She had trouble concentrating and had spells of crying at home," said Anniluz Perez, Bryonna's clinical case worker at the Milbank center, on 118th Street in Manhattan.
After six months, Bryonna invited Ms. Perez to paint with her. It was a small gesture, but a revealing one: she was beginning to open up. 
Ms. Armstrong found solace through her church, but the stress of single motherhood still exacted a toll. As a health insurance representative in a doctor's office, she fell behind in her work and was fired. Still grieving from her loss, she drifted in and out of jobs. She relied on unemployment benefits and money from her mother to pay the bills. 
But through it all, Ms. Armstrong stayed committed to her daughter's counseling. 
Bryonna continued to progress and was accepted to the center's Wagon Road Camp, an eight-week program in Chappaqua, N.Y., on a $1,500 scholarship supported by the Neediest Cases, in 2002 and 2003. By bus, she escaped New York City and lost herself in daily summer activities, including swimming and riding a white horse named Snowflake.
Meanwhile, at home, Bryonna rediscovered the child she was before her father's death. She began to help her mom, becoming the perfect big sister to her brother, Chad, now 3.
Ms. Armstrong says she, like her daughter, is healing. This year, she took a part-time job at the city's call center for 311, a government help line. She won a scholarship for state college tuition and child care, and she is now studying sociology at City College in Manhattan.
But working toward her goals did not end her financial pressures. In July, she fell behind on her $782.75 rent. By September, she was three months behind, and facing eviction.
She found help once again, this time through the Coalition for the Homeless. It agreed to pay one month's rent and gave her the names of other crisis organizations. This led her back to Children's Aid. 
To her surprise, her daughter's involvement in a Children's Aid program made the family eligible for assistance. Ms. Armstrong received $1,565.50 from the Neediest Cases to cover the remaining back rent. 
Now, Ms. Armstrong says, she continues to pinch every penny. Meanwhile, it comforts her to know that Bryonna is flourishing with the help of Children's Aid. 
The child who witnessed the end of her father's life is now optimistic about her own. Some days, Bryonna says she wants to be a singer; other days, she wants to be a firefighter, like the ones who tried to save her dad.
One thing is for certain, she says: "I want to help people."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,364,582.53
Recorded Wednesday: 24,159.50
Total: $2,388,742.03

Last year to date: $2,666,155.27

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tayshah Armstrong, 28, with her children, Bryonna, 7, and Chad, 3. Ms. Armstrong was two weeks away from her wedding to the children's father, Bernard Vickers, when he died of a heart attack in March 2000. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); PARAMEDICS (71%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); RESTAURANTS (63%); CHARITIES (60%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: Kari Haskell; Tayshah Armstrong; Bernard Vickers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



322 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Less Space but More Rent? Court Says No

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
After one wall was shifted -- making the apartment next door larger -- a vacated rent-stabilized apartment at 302 East Third Street in Manhattan was rendered 86 square feet smaller. Yet the landlord charged the tenants who moved into the downsized unit a monthly rent of $1,950, nearly triple what the former tenant had paid.
 In a precedent-setting decision, an appeals court has said no. 
 Changing the size of an apartment -- to something either smaller or larger -- to get a higher rent "is done all the time," said Sherwin Belkin, a prominent landlord lawyer who was not involved in this recent case. 
So the 5-to-0 ruling by the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in Manhattan on Sept. 16 -- the case was Devlin v. New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal and 302 East Third Street Associates -- "is absolutely precedent setting," Mr. Belkin said.
"It's undoing years of D.H.C.R. and judicial rulings," he added.
The case began in 1998 as an overcharge proceeding before the state housing division brought by the new tenants in Apartment 5D at the Third Street building, Keith Devlin and B. D. White. The new 5D, although 86 square feet smaller, remained a one-bedroom apartment. The previous tenant, when 5D was bigger, had paid $673 a month.
Normally, an owner of a vacated rent-stabilized apartment is entitled to a 20 percent rent increase when a two-year lease is given to a new tenant. In this case, the landlord sought to charge what is called a "first rent" because the smaller Apartment 5D, according to previous housing division rulings, constituted a "newly created unit." The landlord wanted to charge $1,950, but with a discount reducing the rent to $1,200 a month if the new tenant paid by the 15th of each month.
The state housing division ruled in favor of the owner, saying that an apartment that was 86 square feet smaller qualifies as a new unit. And, on appeal, the division's deputy commissioner, Paul Roldan, upheld the initial decision. The tenants then challenged the division's decision before Justice William A. Wetzel of State Supreme Court, who on March 6, 2002, also upheld the original ruling.
Then, this September in an opinion written by Justice Peter Tom, the Appellate Division unanimously reversed the lower court, saying that the reduction of the space did not result in the "obliteration of the prior apartment."
Justice Tom wrote that to hold otherwise "would encourage subterfuges as a means of improperly manipulating rent stabilization."
The ruling distinguished the situation at 302 East Third Street from one involving an owner who might have, for example, combined two studio apartments to create a large one-bedroom. 
In reversing the housing agency decision, the court said that the agency had "myopically" used to the letter of the law "to effectively undermine the very statutory regime that it was charged with administering."
Mr. White, one of the two tenants in 5D (Mr. Devlin has since moved out), said he expected the housing division to order the landlord to reduce his monthly rent to $810 -- "what the previous tenant paid plus a legal vacancy."
"I feel like I've won a victory not only for myself," said Mr. White, a theater production manager, "but for everyone who is subjected to these practices. I'm loving that."
Mr. Belkin, a partner in the firm of Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman, pointed out that there had been many previous housing division and judicial decisions holding that a substantial increase or decrease in the square footage of an apartment creates a new unit, entitling an owner to a "first rent."
"I am certain that this decision comes as a shock to the real estate industry," Mr. Belkin said. "What the Appellate Division seems to have told owners who undertake substantial alterations of their apartments is: Make sure you not only increase or decrease the square footage, but also that you change the number of rooms in the apartment."
Through the newsletter that his firm sends each month to 2,600 clients, Mr. Belkin said, "I have advised them that if you are unsure if your proposed reconfiguration will create a new unit, you should consider obtaining an advisory opinion from D.H.C.R. before starting the construction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: B. D. White inside his apartment on East Third Street. An appeals court said the landlord, who had downsized the unit, could not triple the rent. (Photo by Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Housing; Suits and Litigation; Renting and Leasing; Landlords

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi; Keith Devlin; B D White

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



323 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL; 
For Knicks and Nets, A Rivalry of Uncertainty

BYLINE:  By LIZ ROBBINS; Lee Jenkins contributed to this report.

 BODY:
This year, the banner ceremony to celebrate the Nets' second straight Eastern Conference championship was deliberately understated. Lou Lamoriello, the Nets' chief executive, did not want to overplay the team's achievement, because they had again lost in the N.B.A. finals. 
 So hours before the tipoff on opening night at Continental Arena, Lamoriello changed the pregame ceremony; instead of raising the banner to the rafters, a spotlight was directed on a banner already hanging from the ceiling. Streamers fell, but so did the faces of some surprised Nets officials. 
 Chances are, that would never have happened in Madison Square Garden had the Knicks been able to make back-to-back appearances in the finals. In a place where hype and hoops co-exist, the Knicks would find a way to celebrate -- were there to be such an occasion. 
But there isn't likely to be one any time soon. Instead, as the teams prepare to meet tonight for the first time this season, the buzz is muted on both sides of the Hudson River, for different reasons. 
The Nets, with a 3-5 record, are struggling, but they remain one of the top teams in the Eastern Conference and have been retooled to return to the finals. But amid the increasingly distracting backdrop of a potential sale and move, they continue to have trouble drawing fans and currently have the second-lowest attendance in the National Basketball Association.
Nine miles away, the Knicks, at 2-5, are stumbling toward their third straight losing season, watching as empty seats dot the Garden, and hoping that the return of Antonio McDyess -- as early as next week -- can resurrect their season before it is too late. 
Just two years ago, Jason Kidd marched into New Jersey and proclaimed that the Nets were No. 2 in the New York metropolitan area, but would soon be No. 1. He was right, if only in the won-lost column. But even Kidd, with his uncanny vision, could not have foreseen the problems now confronting both teams. No one knows where the Nets are headed off the court; no one knows where the Knicks are headed on it.

On the Court
Nets Coach Byron Scott and Knicks Coach Don Chaney reacted to losses this week in the same way, saying their teams played scared.
Certain players -- Kurt Thomas of the Knicks and Kenyon Martin and Richard Jefferson of the Nets -- bristled at the suggestion. And both coaches had to hastily talk to their players the next day to explain themselves. 
Neither Scott nor Chaney said he was scared about his job status, although Scott entered the season on the last year of his contract, without the Nets showing any inclination of giving him an extension. "I think Byron is doing fine," Rod Thorn, the Nets' president, said. "You can't hold him accountable for the injuries and lack of depth."
James L. Dolan, the chairman of Madison Square Garden and the executive who oversees the Knicks, has twice extended Chaney's contract -- it now runs until 2006 -- even though Chaney has not had a winning record since taking over for Jeff Van Gundy in December 2001. 
"No, I'm not worried about my job," Chaney said. "And it's not because I have a guaranteed contract, either. I know -- and I've been in this place before -- that I'm doing the best I can do, preparing the team."
Chaney has, however, revealed the strain he is feeling these days. He ranted to reporters on Monday morning in Cleveland, reacting to criticism of how he had been using center Dikembe Mutombo, then ranted to his players on Monday night after they played without effort in losing to the Cavaliers. 
"I let myself go and I got upset," he said of his tirade to reporters. "That won't happen again." 
Chaney said that his job in preparing players only goes so far. "I can control them in the locker room, I can control them here," he said of the practice court. "I can't control what they do on the floor. They have to react as basketball players."
Tellingly, the Knicks are putting their faith in the return of McDyess, who scrimmaged twice with the team this week, but is not yet ready to return after a two-year layoff and three knee surgeries. 
In the meantime, the off-season acquisitions of Keith Van Horn and Mutombo have yielded inconsistent results and Mike Sweetney, the Knicks' first-round pick, is averaging just 4 minutes a game.
The plan, according to General Manager Scott Layden, was to get bigger and younger, which he accomplished by trading Latrell Sprewell for Van Horn. "We feel with this team we can win. We like the roster," he said. 
But the Knicks are slow and stuck with five power forwards. They have no depth at shooting guard and possess the highest payroll in the league. And they are still looking for a point guard, as Chaney unintentionally let slip in the preseason. 
The Nets, despite signing Kidd to a six-year, $103 million deal and Alonzo Mourning for an additional $23 million, have holes, too. Kerry Kittles, Richard Jefferson and Jason Collins have been consistent, and Kenyon Martin has been hurt, but Kidd has had to play too much; yesterday the Nets signed Robert Pack to be his veteran backup. 
Still, the Nets have made a remarkable transition in recent seasons, one the Knicks can only dream of.
"I think the Knicks are different when you judge them because they lock into a lot of players, so you can't turn the ship around real quick," said one Eastern Conference general manager. "New York's different," he added. "Nobody's looking for what you're trying to do to build the team -- you got to live in the present."

Off the Court
The Knicks' losing record the last two seasons has directly affected the team's ticket sales. Last November the Knicks' string of 433 consecutive sellouts was snapped; since then, they have had to aggressively market themselves, just as other teams in the league have done for years. And with season ticket-holders declining to renew because of apathy or economy, there is no longer a waiting list.
Steve Mills, the president of the Garden in charge of team operations, said that the decline in season tickets -- Sports Business Journal estimates the number of tickets at 12,600 -- was not significant. "It is down less than 10 percent from last year," he said.
In three games at the Garden this season, the Knicks' average attendance is 18,744, about 1,000 under capacity. The Knicks are soliciting groups like college alumni organizations and using e-mail messages for a ticket exchange program to reduce no-shows. Their last home game, last Friday night against Sacramento, brought in some A-list celebrities and the Knicks' electric victory over the Kings brought back reminders of the old days.
And then they lost two putrid games on the road. 
As for the Nets, they seem to almost prefer playing on the road these days, where they can be energized by electric crowds they do not see in Continental Arena. 
Last season, the Nets' average attendance improved by nearly 2,000 fans a game to 15,185, the seventh lowest in the league. Through four games this season, the Nets are next-to-last in attendance, averaging 13,530 fans. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the Nets have lost their last three games at home, all played before a lot of empty seats.
The N.B.A.'s commissioner, David Stern, noted that the Nets' revenue from gate receipts has actually increased this season because the Nets are filling in the more expensive seats.
But underlying and perhaps fortifying the low attendance is the impending sale of the team. The Nets could end up in Brooklyn or Long Island, or Newark, and Continental Arena is already taking on something of a lame-duck status.
The players say they are not distracted by the impending sale or the empty seats. "I'm not worried about the support," Mourning said. "Our strength comes from right here, in this little unit here. We put on a better performance, more people might buy a ticket to come see us play."

Who's No. 1?
The Nets have won 9 of their last 10 games over the Knicks, overmatching them with athleticism. Yet, somehow, it doesn't fully resonate in the metropolitan area.
"The unfortunate thing about it, having been here in this market for a long time, I don't think the Nets will ever be No. 1," said Willis Reed, who starred for the Knicks, coached both teams, represented the Nets as an executive for 15 years and returned to the Knicks as a special adviser this summer. "You're fighting something that you can't win. You're fighting history."
Reed looks up at the championship banner of 1973 hanging in the Knicks' sparkling practice facility, pleased to be back with his old team, the one everybody always asked him about.
"It's hard to leave a good team. To be where a team is winning is always good," he acknowledged.
Sponsors and fans ask Reed when the Knicks will win again. "We have enough talent here to get back to the playoffs," he said. "That's going to be our major challenge."
For the Nets, the challenge is raising a championship banner, before a full house, wherever that may be.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenyon Martin and the Nets have experienced a revival, reaching the N.B.A. finals the last two seasons.; Much like the Knicks, Keith Van Horn, acquired in the off-season, has been inconsistent this season.; DIVIDED BY 9 MILES AND CONTRASTING FORTUNES -- The Nets are a solid team playing in a half-empty arena, left; the Knicks are a Midtown mess, right. (Photographs by Barton Silverman The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DIVESTITURES (70%); RELOCATIONS (65%) Basketball; Relocation of Business; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%) New York Knickerbockers; New Jersey Nets

PERSON: Liz Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



324 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Twilight Zone For ZIP Code At Ground Zero

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
FROM the beginning, the collapse of the World Trade Center has been a tale told in numbers as well as words.
 We're still counting exactly how many people died. And parceling the compensation for victims' families. And measuring the damage to the city's economy. And deciding how tall new buildings at the site should be. Figures like 2,752, the latest tally of the dead, and 1,776 feet, the proposed height of the so-called Freedom Tower, are as much a part of the post-9/11 vocabulary as "footprints" and "ground zero." 
 One number gets little attention, but it should not be ignored in contemplating Lower Manhattan's future. It is 10048.
That was the trade center's ZIP code. When the towers came down, 10048 fell into a state of suspended animation -- seemingly dead, but not really.
An inevitable question is what does the United States Postal Service intend to do with this ZIP code. Preserve it for the new buildings that will eventually rise? Or retire it, much as a ball club does with a great player's number?
Nothing has been formally decided, the Postal Service says. Still, 10048 does not seem about to go the way of Babe Ruth's 3 or Lou Gehrig's 4 at Yankee Stadium.
"It is being held as an active number," with no plans to discontinue it, said Anthony Musso, a Postal Service spokesman in New York. When development begins, Mr. Musso said, "in all likelihood that number is going to be assigned to whatever buildings are on that site."
Obviously, the fate of a postal number is not the most pressing concern for city planners. But ZIP codes mean something. Communities, feeling that their very identities are at stake, sometimes fight over them. Where would the TV show about Beverly Hills kids have been without that 90210 in the title?
Certainly, 10048 meant something. It meant money. Many people who worked there earned lots of it. This was, after all, the World Trade Center, dedicated to commerce and to making a buck -- just as New York itself has been since its earliest days, when Dutch traders came ashore and struck, or so the story goes, their $24 deal.
Given this reality, those wanting to turn the entire 16-acre trade center site into a memorial are arguably untrue to the city's guiding spirit. Now, the advocates of rebuilding seem dominant. But it took them a while. In the first months after the terrorist attack, few people cared to think of the trade center as the money machine that it was.
"It was like you were speaking ill of the dead," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist and demographer at Queens College. But let's get real. The lawyers and financial types who filled the twin towers "were not working there for self-actualization," Professor Beveridge said. "They were there to make as much money as they could."
Analyzing census data from 2000, the trade center's last full year, Professor Beveridge found that 31,149 people worked in 10048, and were paid an average of $101,006, far more than the citywide average of $59,448. No other ZIP code in the city registered a higher income per worker.
(Intriguingly, the 2000 census recorded 55 people, including 11 small children, as living in the trade center complex. "The odds are we're dealing here with a homeless situation," said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division of the Department of City Planning.)
MAIL continues to arrive addressed to 10048, about 3,600 pieces a day, Mr. Musso said. That is a fraction of the volume before 9/11, but it is enough to make one wonder if some people out there never heard the news.
These letters and packages now go to the main post office on Eighth Avenue, opposite Pennsylvania Station. There, they either are picked up by businesses that have relocated or are marked "return to sender."
Before the terror attack, 10048 mail was sorted at 90 Church Street, but that building, another victim of Sept. 11, remains closed. Artifacts from the Church Street post office -- items like letter carriers' bags and sorting cases with pigeonholes for Windows on the World and Cantor Fitzgerald -- were sent to the National Postal Museum in Washington, part of the Smithsonian Institution.
The Church Street station may be reopened by mid-2004, Mr. Musso said. Presumably, at some point, 10048 will also return fully to life.
So it should, Professor Beveridge said. It would be a symbol of the site's rebirth. "They should rebuild it and get it going again, as opposed to pretending that we never can," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); HIJACKING (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) World Trade Center (NYC); Terrorism; Hijacking; Airlines and Airplanes; Postal Service; Zip Code

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2003 



325 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: A Sketch of Arab-Americans; 
Survey Touches Off Disputes Over Who Should Study Whom

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
When researchers decided to survey attitudes, values and the impact of Sept. 11 among 1,000 Arab-Americans in the Detroit area, they saw their study as a groundbreaking attempt to accurately portray a community that felt stereotyped and under siege. 
 But perhaps inevitably the research team -- from the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research -- ran into criticism and concern. 
 First came questions about the study's confidentiality. The three-county region has one of the nation's largest, most concentrated communities of Arab-Americans, some 100,000 to 300,000 people, and there were fears about bias attacks and eroding civil liberties. Some Arab-American scholars were miffed that there was only one Arab-American among seven researchers. 
Then there were concerns about the survey's methods. Was "Arab-American" defined by region or language? For example, Chaldeans, primarily Christian Iraqis who speak Aramaic as well as Arabic, wanted to be part of the survey but didn't always identify themselves as Arab-American. 
Just how sensitive and informed were the researchers and interviewers about Arab-Americans? 
Preliminary findings of the $790,000 study are expected to be released in January, and ultimately many scholars predict that it will create a comprehensive view of Arab-Americans. But the cacophony surrounding it, reported in May in "The Chronicle of Higher Education," is emblematic of an old controversy among social scientists that is far from resolved: the gap between those who live in a community and those who study it. In other words, whose research is authentic? More than 40 years ago, the renowned sociologist Robert K. Merton wrote a classic paper on "insiders and outsiders" to talk about the nuances of social perspective. 
"It's in some ways a well-worn tale," said Lawrence D. Bobo, a professor of sociology and African and African-American studies at Harvard who has written widely about studies of race and ethnicity. "There will always be concerns when communities are studied that feel disenfranchised, lacking voice and influence when questions arise. The Arab-American community is just the latest community to experience this."
More often, blacks have been the minority in the insider-outsider debate. Mr. Bobo recalled a major controversy in the late 1980's when the National Academy of Sciences studied black American attitudes on a number of subjects. Some blacks were outraged that the leader of the study committee was white; others accused the committee of having an ideological bent that would skew the results.
"I'm not one who subscribes to the view that only one who is an insider can do work in minority communities," Mr. Bobo said. "At the same time, it's easy to misinterpret or miscontextualize something. It's important to have a dialogue with the community. This is a large and ongoing issue that is definitely not resolved."
Wayne E. Baker, one of the two principal investigators for the Detroit project, said he was baffled that anyone would doubt the researchers. They submitted the survey proposal before community groups, he said, fielded Internet queries and hired and trained 60 interviewers from the community who were fluent in Arabic and English. The team created a 30-member community advisory board and submitted the proposed survey to three academic specialists in Arab-American issues (all of whom are Arab-Americans).
The survey, which included the views of 500 non-Arab-Americans, also "oversampled" Arab-Americans -- or interviewed more than usual -- to get as accurate a snapshot as possible. Mr. Baker, a sociologist who isalso director of the Center for Society and Economy at Michigan, said he was the only one of the seven researchers without experience in researching Arab-Americans or the Middle East. 
David L. Featherman, director of the Institute for Social Research, said that the insider-outsider issues were familiar and expected. The institute is the world's largest academic survey and research organization and for 50 years has surveyed attitudes on everything from health and aging to child rearing.
"It was recognized that this was a tense geopolitical moment," Mr. Featherman said of the timing of the Detroit survey, which began a year ago and is mostly financed by the Russell Sage Foundation. But while it was important to make the process transparent to the community and to build a partnership, Mr. Featherman said, researchers did not need to completely mirror the communities they studied."You don't have to be poor to study poverty," he said.
Some Arab-American scholars argued, however, that ethnicity matters.
"Within the paradigm of ethnic studies -- African-American studies, Latino-American studies, Native American, you name it, it's always good to add as many academic voices from within that community as possible," said Kenneth K. Ayouby, an Arab-American who studies the community and who works in the Dearborn, Mich., public schools. 
Referring to the Arab-American researcher, Mr. Ayouby continued: "With all due respect to Amaney Jamal, her being simply one Arab-American of the seven members of the research team makes her a token. There are other scholars out there. Knowing the culture academically means knowing the issues academically and knowing how to do the research better."
Ms. Jamal, a professor of politics at Princeton, said that she understands cultural gatekeeping but that she resents being called a token. A research team of three or four Arab-Americans, she said, could just as well be seen as pawns of an institution or tokens. The only legitimate discrimination, she said, is against bad research. 
But some critics of the survey complain of the difficulty they have encountered getting answers about it. Gary C. David, an assistant professor of sociology at Bentley College in Massachusetts, who administers an Internet Arab-American discussion group, said he was especially interested in the definition of "Arab-American." The term has always been disputed by scholars, he said, and is not an official census category.
Because the survey has allowed respondents to identify themselves ethnically, Mr. David and others said, it will be problematic as a basis for developing policy, for getting an accurate count, for defining the community. 
"We're not new here," Mr. David said of Arab-Americans. He described himself as a fourth-generation Arab-American with a Christian Lebanese last name. "But studies create a sense of just arriving if you focus on an enclave of first- and second-generation people, of people with only identifiable Arab names. I'm not questioning their research ability or knowledge. I'm just asking, What's it a study of?" 
Hassan Jaber, the associate director of the Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services, the oldest and largest Arab-American human services organization, said that community groups had peppered the Detroit team with all those questions. He believes that the university has done a good job of reaching out to a representative sample and listening to its concerns. 
Mr. Jaber became a member of the community advisory board, one of whose tasks was to assess potential survey questions. For example, he said, a question like "Do you send money back home?" was ripe for misinterpretation. It could be construed as either providing aid to a family back home or as transferring money to potential terrorists.
There are no definitive guidelines or litmus tests for authenticity, said Rodney Coates, a professor of sociology at Miami University in Ohio and the next chairman of the American Sociological Association's section on racial and ethnic minorities. Rather, as in Michigan, researchers typically select the community they want to study and subject their survey to review before, during and after the process.
Starting in the 1930's, Mr. Coates said, academic researchers began to be concerned about bias tainting studies of white ethnic males and by the 1950's they were training their lenses on women and minorities. 
For example, Mr. Coates said, until women started conducting psychiatric research in sizable numbers, "frigid women" were often said to be suffering from penis envy. Similarly, women's heart troubles were overlooked because of the way mostly male researchers asked the questions.
And before the black social psychologist Kenneth Clark did his famous study of children's racial preferences, cited in the 1954 Supreme Court decision ending segregated schools, Mr. Coates said, no one questioned that a black child would prefer a white doll to a black doll.
Groups like women, gays and African-Americans know that studies that purport to paint a group portrait can do as much harm as good, said Michael W. Suleiman, a professor of political science at Kansas State University and a survey consultant. 
He added that not only has the Arab presence in the United States not been accurately documented -- a project he has undertaken -- but that too many Arab-American scholars have not been able to get research funds to study Arab-Americans. 
Altogether, he said, it is estimated that there are about 3 million to 3.5 million Arab-Americans, with the Detroit area as the largest enclave. The community there is also the most diverse, including Syrians, Egyptians, Moroccans, Lebanese and Iraqis. Most Arab-Americans are Christian.
While Mr. Suleiman feels that the Michigan study is by and large sound and fair, he, too, said that he thought more Arab-American scholars could have been included. 
Others are looking ahead to the study as an important milestone. After all, even after it is completed, they point out, there will be plenty of opportunities to critique the findings.
"I think what they'll get out of it are good numbers for things we've only been able to hypothesize -- work, assimilation, how American do Arab-Americans feel," said Nabeel Abraham, who teaches anthropology at Henry Ford Community College in Detroit, who was also a project consultant. "Now we'll have numbers that stand up to top social science scrutiny."
As for all the charges that too many outsiders generated those numbers, he said that in fact many of the definitions are up for grabs. "An outsider's view has validity, it has worth, if it's sympathetic, if they're not coming at the group with an ax," Mr. Abraham said. "What does it mean to be an insider? What is a true representative of the community? There are people who've been here four generations, people who just got here, people who married out, people who married in, people whose grandparents gave them an Arab name."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A survey hopes to produce a comprehensive view of Arab-Americans. Above, Arab-Americans pray for the victims of 9/11 in Paterson, N.J., soon after the attack. (Photo by Najlah Feanny/Corbis)(pg. B7); In the Detroit area, a mother walked home with her children after school, and Jamal Koussan, on Sept. 12, 2001, put up an American flag. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARAB AMERICANS (96%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); RACE & RACISM (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HATE CRIME (71%) ARAB-AMERICANS; ARAB-AMERICANS; RESEARCH; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (57%) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (75%) DETROIT (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



326 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Xerox Settles Dispute Over Pension Benefits
Xerox agreed to settle a lawsuit over the way it calculated pension benefits by paying an additional $239 million to thousands of employees who retired between 1990 and 1999.
 The proposed settlement calls for Xerox to make the payment out of its pension plan for salaried employees. Xerox said it would not have to contribute additional money to the plan until at least 2005. Page C2. 

Deal Reached on Energy Measure
Senator Pete V. Domenici, chairman of the House-Senate committee forging a compromise on national energy legislation, said Congressional Republicans had agreed on wide-ranging national energy legislation that would provide billions of dollars in tax breaks for power producers and impose new standards intended to reduce the chances of blackouts like the one that hit the Northeast in August. He admitted that the bill, drafted almost entirely by Republicans, was bound to attract criticism. A1.

Exxon Mobil Ordered to Pay Big Fine
Exxon Mobil was ordered by an Alabama jury to pay the state $11.9 billion for depriving it of proper royalties on the natural gas the company gathers there -- one of the country's largest punitive awards ever. C3.

Asbestos Judge Asked to Step Down
Bankruptcy proceedings for companies struggling with many asbestos claims grew even more convoluted when a group of creditors for W.R. Grace asked the presiding judge to step down because of potential conflicts of interest involving his advisers. C4.

Inaccuracies Found at Hollinger
A committee of independent directors of Hollinger International uncovered inaccuracies in regulatory filings related to payments made to Conrad Black, the controlling shareholder, and his partners. C15.

Microsoft Rivals Call for Changes
Sun Microsystems and Real Networks, which would benefit if European Union regulators force Microsoft to change its practices, presented their arguments in Brussels. C4.

Pharmacy Group Seeks Export Ban
Canadian pharmacy regulators asked the government to ban exports of prescription drugs to the United States, joining a widening drive by drug manufacturers and their supporters to curtail access for Americans to cheaper foreign medications. C4.

New Challenges in Stewart Case
Lawyers for Martha Stewart filed a brief with the United States District Court in Manhattan contending that she should not be charged with securities fraud because the statements she is accused of making "were immaterial as a matter of law." Ms. Stewart is scheduled to go on trial Jan. 12. C4.

Reports Send Stocks Lower
Wall Street sank as investors sifted through a series of downbeat economic reports. The Nasdaq composite index declined 37.09 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,930.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 8.06 points, to 1,050.35, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 69.26 points, to 9,768.68. C5.

Retail Sales Decline 0.3%
Economic reports for October were mixed with sales at retailers falling 0.3 percent, while industrial production increased 0.2 percent. The Producer Price Index rose 0.8 percent, and consumer confidence jumped so far this month. C2.

G.M. to Take Charge for Contract
General Motors will take a $1.2 billion pretax charge in the fourth quarter for costs related to its United Auto Workers contract. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,768.68 down 69.26Nasdaq composite -- 1,930.26 down 37.0910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.22% down 0.05The euro -- $1.1779 up 0.0046The dollar -- 108.25 yen up 0.08 Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite index since Jan. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (85%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ASBESTOS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); DAMAGES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); JUDGES (78%); TOXIC TORTS (78%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); ASBESTOS PRODUCT MFG (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ROYALTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); RETAILERS (61%); RETAIL SALES (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); W R GRACE & CO (54%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); GRA (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (55%); MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



327 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

U.S. Sees Independence For Iraq as Early as June
The Bush administration has agreed to grant independence to Iraq as early as next June, apparently hoping the move will change the perception of the United States as an occupying power and curb the mounting attacks on American forces in the country, Iraqi and American officials said. A1

American intelligence agencies have found increasing evidence that the broad outlines of the guerrilla campaign being waged in Iraq were prepared by the Iraqi Intelligence Service before the war. A7

Dozens of Iraqi police officers charged through central Baghdad to take back their city from bandits. The raids amounted to a public show of courage and force by the newly revamped force. A1

Criticism of Sharon Mounts
Four ex-chiefs of Shin Bet, or the General Security Service in Israel, criticized Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's policies in dealing with the Palestinian uprising. It was the latest in a series by security officials and soldiers, current and former, questioning recent policy. A3

German Party Expels Member
Germany's largest opposition party, the Christian Democratic Union, voted to expel a member who blamed Jews for the deaths caused by the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia in 1917. A6

Turmoil in Georgian Capital
A postelection standoff erupted into turmoil in Georgia as thousands of antigovernment protesters filled the streets of Tblisi while truckloads of soldiers stood by. President Eduard A. Shevardnadze pleaded for calm and warned that demonstrators could bring on a civil war. A6

Troop Issue Ignored in Tokyo
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan focused in a meeting on Japan's financial contributions to a stabilization effort in Iraq. A6

NATIONAL A8-11, 14

Congressional Republicans Agree on Broad Energy Bill
Congressional Republicans announced they had agreed on wide-ranging energy legislation that would provide billions of dollars in tax breaks for power producers and impose new standards intended to reduce the chances of blackouts. A1

Democrats Block Bush Picks
Senate Democrats continued to use filibusters to block two more of President Bush's judicial nominees immediately following nearly 40 hours of debate in which Republicans complained about obstructionism. A1

Kerry Opts Out of Public Funds
Senator John Kerry became the second Democratic candidate to reject public financing for the presidential primaries, a move that will free him from spending limits and give him the option of injecting more of his personal money into the race. A1

Clark Readies Television Ads
Gen. Wesley K. Clark's campaign is set to broadcast the first of its television advertisements with a minute-long spot that highlights his combat record and his term as the NATO supreme allied commander. A9

Suit Filed Against Pig Farm
The Humane Farming Association, a nonprofit group that has been fighting to stop a pig production company in South Dakota, filed a petition with the state's attorney general describing how it says the company is defying state animal cruelty laws. A8

Judge Rules Against Moussaoui
A federal judge barred Zacarias Moussaoui from continuing to represent himself in court, saying the terrorism suspect had repeatedly violated her orders. A8

Test for NASA Study Group
NASA's new engineering and safety group, formed in response to the Columbia shuttle disaster, is beginning its duties by looking at four potential problems in programs throughout the agency, officials said. A14

Religion Journal A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

County Budgets Show State's Economic Quandary
New York's counties, squeezed by state and federal mandates that have grown much faster than the rate of inflation, are raising property taxes, slashing money for programs like libraries and the arts, and laying off workers. A1

In a Window, Tradition
A new state code that requires a minimum opening for bedroom windows has placed 50 Amish families in western New York at loggerheads with the state. The code is meant to ease escape during a fire, but the traditional Amish window falls short of the standard. B1

Ferry Captain Defended
Lawyers for the captain of the Staten Island ferry that crashed last month continue to be vague about his whereabouts moments before the crash, but they said in a statement that New York City has little formal policy on where the captain should have been. B1

Man Killed Atop Subway Car
A merchant marine cadet on an elevated No. 6 train in the Bronx was killed atop the last train car when a steel girder fractured his skull. It was the second subway surfing death in a month. A second cadet was critically injured. B1

Neediest Cases B4

OBITUARIES C16

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS & IDEAS B7-17

Criticism for a Survey
A research team surveying attitudes, values and the impact of Sept. 11 among 1,000 Arab-Americans in the Detroit area ran into criticism and concern. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Improper Trading at Schwab
Charles Schwab uncovered evidence of improper mutual fund trading in both its supermarket of funds and a fund family of a subsidiary, U.S. Trust. C1

Pentagon Clears Official
The Pentagon concluded that Richard N. Perle violated no ethics rules when he lead a Pentagon advisory board while representing two companies. C1

Trade Ministers Revise Goals
Trade ministers gathering on Sunday to discuss creating an Americaswide free trade area have scaled back their ambitions. C1

Xerox Settles Pension Lawsuit
Xerox agreed to settle a lawsuit over pension benefits. C1

Down Day and Week for Stocks
The Dow fell 69.26 points, to 9,768.68, 41.11 points below last week's close. The Nasdaq also declined. C5

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: The Wal-Martization of America; a "new" Palestinian Authority; Fidel's triumph on Capitol Hill; make home schooling safe for children.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B17
Crossword B16
Weather B18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); FILIBUSTER (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); HOG & PIG FARMING (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); POLICE FORCES (56%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GENERAL SECURITY SERVICE INC (56%); GENERAL SECURITY SERVICES CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7381 DETECTIVE, GUARD, & ARMORED CAR SERVICES (56%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GEORGIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



328 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: As Counties Face Fiscal Squeeze, Taxes Soar and Spending Shrinks 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
A study released this week found that New York State residents pay the highest local taxes in the nation by far. A look at county budgets introduced across the state this fall indicates that New York will keep that distinction -- with a vengeance.
 Squeezed by state mandates that have grown much faster than the rate of inflation, counties are raising property taxes by double-digit percentages, slashing money for programs like libraries and the arts, and laying off workers. 
 The Westchester County executive, Andrew J. Spano, unveiled a budget yesterday that would raise the sales tax by one percentage point, an increase he unsuccessfully sought a year ago, to avert a 25 percent rise in the county's share of the property tax. The county also plans to lay off 236 of its nearly 4,700 workers, mainly in the social service and health departments. 
County executives around the state are grappling with similarly grim arithmetic. "We are looking at a 17 percent tax increase this year, and that is on top of a 23 percent increase last year," said the Albany County executive, Michael Breslin, referring to property taxes. "The biggest challenge we face is expenses that are totally out of our control."
 The tax study, issued Monday by the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group largely backed by businesses that seeks ways to contain government spending and taxes in New York, said that the combined local income, property and sales taxes New Yorkers pay were 72 percent higher than the national average. The second-highest tax burden, New Jersey's, was 20 percent higher than the national average. The study analyzed taxes from the 2000 fiscal year, before the state's current fiscal crisis. 
With county taxes rising to meet huge new expenses, local officials across the state expect the gap between New York and the rest of the nation to widen. County officials and many analysts of state politics lay the blame for the local budget crises squarely at Albany's feet. Politically popular decisions that expanded health care for the poor and fattened state worker pensions will continue to strain the state budget next year, as elected officials in Albany struggle with a fiscal crisis and comply with a federal court order requiring the state to spend millions on education to correct inequities among the state's districts.
 But the impact of Albany's spending is not felt just on state tax bills. Because of the unusual way the state pays for Medicaid, and changes to the state pension system, a good portion of the bill for Albany's largess is hidden away in local property and sales taxes. Counties pay one-quarter of the cost of health care for the poor under the federal Medicaid program, while the federal government pays half and the state chips in the other 25 percent, or for nursing-home care, 40 percent. When Albany expands popular programs to cover the working poor and not just the destitute, it usually pays only 25 cents of each dollar spent but gets all the bragging rights.
Gov. George E. Pataki has been criticized for appearing in state-financed television commercials to promote the state's expansive health care programs for working low-income families. They now qualify for Medicaid programs that the state expanded to include those who make 150 percent of the federal poverty guideline. 
 "The political benefits are reaped in Albany," said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a research institution that advocates shrinking government and lowering taxes. "But the fiscal price is paid at the local government level." 
Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki's budget office, said the governor had fought hard to relieve the burden on local taxpayers and said the Democratic-controlled State Assembly had stymied his efforts.
"No one has done more than Governor Pataki to help relieve the burden on municipalities," Mr. Quinn said yesterday. "The governor has consistently pushed for local mandate relief, pension reform and Medicaid reform, all of which will dramatically help local governments." 
Relief is certainly needed in Chemung County, where the county executive, Thomas Santulli, has whittled a $9 million shortfall in his budget, which would have forced a 42 percent property-tax increase, down to a $2.8 million hole that would require a 14 percent tax increase. To get that far he had to do some ruthless cost cutting, trimming the county work force, eliminating money for the arts and closing two libraries. 
 For 11 years, he said, the county has not raised property taxes in an effort to attract new jobs to its struggling communities, which include Elmira. The effort seemed to be paying off: In the last three years a steel processor, a rail car manufacturer and a maker of high-tech medical devices have all located in Chemung, investing millions of dollars and bringing hundreds of jobs. 
 "I have always believed that property taxes are the biggest detriment to economic development," Mr. Santulli said. "But we have cut as much as we can cut and there is nowhere else to go."
 It is a lament repeated in county after county, from rural Chautauqua at the western end of the state, where County Executive Mark Thomas will ask an aging population to pay nearly 10 percent more in property taxes, to affluent Suffolk and Nassau in the east, where officials have held down taxes for the most part but paid a different price.
 The Rockland County executive, C. Scott Vanderhoef, announced last month that his budget would raise property taxes 9.5 percent to pay for growing state pension costs and higher Medicaid bills. In 2003 Rockland paid $8 million into the state pension system to cover its workers; next year it will pay $20 million. Similarly, Medicaid expenses grew by 14 percent.
But county officials, particularly those raising taxes by steep percentages, are quick to note that the increases often do not translate into a large dollar figure. In Rockland, for example, the property tax increase will add only about $45 a year to the average homeowner's bill, Mr. Vanderhoef told county legislators.
While county property taxes usually make up a smaller portion of a home or business owner's tax bill than school taxes, their contribution to the overall tax burden is significant. When sales taxes and school taxes are added in, the local tax burden quickly becomes onerous, county officials said. And some counties have already reached the limit of how much they can raise sales taxes.
The cumulative effect on a taxpayer, given that school taxes are likely to rise again this yearas the state deals with a Court of Appeals ruling that requires millions of dollars of new spending to bring equity to school financing, can be brutal. 
 "It all adds up and becomes a snowball," said Marcia J. Van Wagner, the chief economist for the Citizens Budget Commission.
 On Long Island, Nassau and Suffolk Counties face sharp rises in the costs of state-mandated Medicaid programs, contributions to the state-run pension fund and employee health insurance. County officials say they also worry that the state, because of its own fiscal troubles, might pull back on local aid.
 Suffolk projects a $131 million jump next year for Medicaid, pensions and health insurance. "That's a monumental increase," said Fred Pollert, the budget review director for the County Legislature, whose $2.3 billion budget for 2004 awaits action by the county executive.
In Nassau, the total for Medicaid, pensions and health insurance is budgeted at $460 million for 2004, an increase of $166 million, or more than 40 percent in three years. After raising the county property tax 19 percent this year, the County Legislature adopted a $2.3 billion budget for next year with no tax increase, partly because of savings from 1,100 retirements, shrinking the work force to its lowest level in 30 years.
 A statewide campaign to curb Medicaid costs is the goal of the president-elect of the State Association of County Executives, Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau. "It's the biggest single threat to our budgets across the state," he said. The state requires the counties and New York City to pay one-fourth of the cost of most Medicaid programs.
 "The state pushes the costs down onto the property-tax payer," since localities have virtually no other new revenue to offset higher Medicaid bills, Mr. Suozzi said. It may be unrealistic to demand that New York State absorb the entire local share, he said, so his goal is to "at least stop the growth, to cap our contributions."
 But county officials do not have high hopes for Medicaid reform next year. The governor and the Legislature agree that the system needs to be changed, but no substantive alterations to the way it is financed have been made since the last county budget crisis, in the early 1980's, when the state assumed a greater portion of the cost of nursing-home care. The State Senate has held roving hearings on the issue, but with all 212 seats in the State Legislature up for re-election and a projected budget deficit of $6 billion, radical change seems unlikely. 
 Mr. McMahon, a veteran observer of Albany politics who has followed the battles between the state and local governments closely, said that while it is true that counties can blame the state for much of their fiscal woe, it is also true that counties, like the state, did not do enough during the booming years of the 1990's to plan for tough times that inevitably arrive. Now that the lean years are here, local governments must pay the price, he said. 
 "There is a tendency to scream, 'Take this monkey off my back,' " Mr. McMahon said, referring to Medicaid and other state mandates. "But that is a cover. They say, 'Our budget is overwhelmed by this' and don't pay attention to other costs and services." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); COUNTIES (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (65%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (61%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (61%); NURSING HOMES (61%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Sales Tax; Local Government; Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Political Advertising; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: Citizens Budget Commission

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



329 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Indians Now Disdain a Farm Once Hailed for Giving Tribe Jobs 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN

DATELINE: ROSEBUD INDIAN RESERVATION, S. D., Nov. 8 

 BODY:
Seven miles west of the tiny town of White River, on a snow-covered rise surrounded by bluffs and valleys, 24 metal-roofed barns create an isolated barracks for tens of thousands of fattening hogs.
 When a pig production company called Sun Prairie built the barns on these tribal trust lands four years ago, the Lakota Sioux who live here on the nearby reservation said they believed the barns would bring good-paying jobs to a reservation where 7 of 10 people are unemployed. 
 The jobs did come. But now some tribal members who have worked at the farm say they wonder at what cost. They describe a company that discriminates against Indians, paying them less than white workers and at times demanding they work extra hours for no pay. They say dust and ammonia emitted from fetid pools of manure that sometimes accumulate inside the barns made them cough until their ribs hurt and made breathing a struggle, even months after leaving their jobs. 
Workers have also made videotapes of the conditions inside the barns showing animals so tightly packed in their pens that strong hogs begin to cannibalize the weak, eating off tails and ears. Other pigs are shown with soccer-ball-sized abscesses hanging from their bellies. During some weeks, hundreds of pigs die, some employees say, from mistreatment and disease.
"They are abusing the land, abusing the Indian people and paying them nothing for their work," said Alvin Covey, a tribal member who worked at the farm for six months this year until July. "All they really care about is getting their money."
Mr. Covey is one of dozens of current or former workers at the farm who have been interviewed in the last year by the Humane Farming Association, a nonprofit group based in San Francisco that has been fighting to stop the hog farm since 1998.
 On Friday, the group filed a petition with the state's attorney general describing how it says the company is abusing the hogs in defiance of state animal cruelty laws. The petition also says that the group plans to file a separate complaint contending that the company has mistreated employees and forced them to work in dangerous conditions. 
Greg Fontaine, chief executive of Bell Farms, a private company that manages the Sun Prairie farm, said the accusations are not true. Sun Prairie and Bell Farms are private partnerships partly owned by Rich Bell, whose business is based is Wahpeton, N.D.
The companies have never discriminated against its Indian workers, Mr. Fontaine said, nor forced them to work without pay. Mr. Fontaine said he was not aware of any systemic health problems among the farm's workers.
And the farm, he said, has never treated the hogs inappropriately. While many may have died on occasion, he said, similar death rates routinely happen "at any hog company" if disease breaks out.
Mr. Fontaine said the association had simply accumulated stories "to paint the picture they want to paint." The association had previously made accusations about environmental problems at the farm, he said, which have not been substantiated.
Mr. Fontaine also questioned whether the videotapes were actually taken inside the company's barns. "I can't respond to what I haven't seen," he said. "We believe we run our farms there with sound husbandry practices. There is no mistreatment of animals."
But Gail A. Eisnitz, chief investigator at the association, said workers who shot the videos signed affidavits confirming they were inside the Rosebud barns. The videos show dead hogs piled in front of a small metal structure that workers call "the dead box," which is visible from the highway running by the farm. 
Because of the prospect of new jobs, when the company built the first 24 barns in 1998, many tribal members welcomed the farm. The Sioux Rosebud reservation -- 1,442 square miles of rolling hills and pasturelands, dotted with small towns near Badlands National Park -- has the country's fifth-highest child poverty rate, according to census data.
Even the tribe's casino has done little to lift its members from poverty. Few gamblers are willing to travel to a place so remote.
Mr. Fontaine said Sun Prairie decided to build the hog farm on tribal lands because of the availability of workers and water, which the tribe had agreed to supply. The farm is actually two sites, Grassy Knoll and Cottonwood, a couple of miles from each other, each with 24 barns, with a combined capacity of 96,000 hogs.
Still, in 1998, the company would have found it hard to build elsewhere in South Dakota because of a state constitutional amendment then in place banning corporate farms. Most state laws do not apply to Indian land.
To win tribal support, the company promised the tribe 25 percent of the farm's profits. But while the company has sold hogs for slaughter worth millions of dollars, it has sent the tribe a check for a mere $11,000, said Michael Boltz, who recently retired from the tribal council. Disgusted with the sum, Mr. Boltz said, tribal officials tore up the check.
Mr. Fontaine said legal fees had consumed the farm's profits.
The tribal council voted in March to evict the farm, Mr. Boltz said, but continuing litigation between the tribe and the company has stopped any action.
Mr. Boltz said he believed that the conditions for the pigs and workers fell somewhere between the dueling descriptions offered by the association and the company. He said he had not learned of significant complaints from workers about health or safety, but had heard accusations about poor conditions for the hogs.
Ms. Eisnitz said the association recently had the air inside the barns tested for ammonia. At their peak, she said, the levels were more than double the federal government's average limit for workers during an eight-hour shift.
Many workers complained about breathing problems. Anthony Barrera said he was so short of breath after quitting as a maintenance worker at the farm last year that for months he could not finish a sentence. A doctor, he said, prescribed a medicine inhaler usually used by asthmatics and told him that breathing the barn air could cause lung problems like those suffered by coal miners. When employees gather in the farm's break room, he said, there is a continuous chorus of deep coughs.
Mr. Fontaine said the company periodically tested the barn air for ammonia and had not found an unsafe level.
One worker, Arthur Black Bear, said in a taped interview that was part of the association's investigation that his bosses ordered him back to work after he was jolted by electricity while using faulty equipment. He can no longer work, he said, because the shock left him with chest pain and muscle spasms. He also has difficulty concentrating, he said.
Mr. Fontaine questioned Mr. Black Bear's account, saying that records show he had suffered "a routine work injury." No manager, he said, had ordered Mr. Black Bear to work after he was hurt.
Mr. Barrera and some current workers said they had firsthand knowledge of the mistreatment and mishandling of the animals.
The employees say more than 50 piglets froze to death one night last winter after they were left on a truck overnight. Mr. Barrera said the barns do not have enough heat lamps to keep the babies warm, so they jump on top of each other in a pile under each light. Sometimes, he said, those on the bottom smother, while those on the top burn to death. 
Mr. Fontaine disagreed that such deaths were a problem. "We want as many animals to survive that can," he said.
But Marlene Covey, who worked several weeks at the farm this year caring for piglets, said employees were told to kill pigs they believed were too sick to live. "They picked them up by the hind legs and smacked their head on the floor," Mrs. Covey said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alvin and Marlene Covey, who both worked at the hog farm this year, said workers and animals alike suffered under the conditions there.; At the Grassy Knoll farm in South Dakota, workers looked for sick hogs in the pens on Wednesday. Managers say every pen is checked daily. (Photographs by Doug Dreyer for The New York Times) Map of South Dakota highlighting the Grassy Knoll and Cottonwood sites: The Grassy Knoll and Cottonwood sites are on tribal lands just north of the Rosebud reservation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (77%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (77%); ETHICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PETITIONS (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Livestock; Cruelty to Animals; Pigs; Lakota Indians; Indians, American; Labor; Working Hours; Recordings (Video); Livestock; Ethics; Wages and Salaries; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: Sun Prairie (Co)

PERSON: Melody Petersen

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) South Dakota

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



330 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Decline 0.3%; Industrial Output Rises 0.2% 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Total sales at retailers fell 0.3 percent in October, and industrial production increased 0.2 percent. Also, October's Producer Price Index rose 0.8 percent, more than forecast, and consumer confidence jumped this month -- all according to reports issued yesterday. 
 Total purchases at retailers fell 0.3 percent last month, to $318.5 billion, after a revised 0.4 percent decrease in September, the Commerce Department said. Excluding auto dealers, sales rose 0.2 percent, the same as September. 
 Economists had forecast total retail sales would fall 0.2 percent last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Furniture sales rose 1 percent, the government said. Receipts at restaurants and bars gained 1.9 percent, and those at building materials stores climbed 1.6 percent. Falling gasoline prices contributed to a 1.6 percent decline in sales at service stations.
Industrial production, the Federal Reserve's measure of work done at factories, mines and utilities, rose 0.2 percent afterincreasing a revised 0.5 percent in September. The forecast was for an increase of 0.4 percent. Excluding automobiles, industrial production advanced 0.5 percent in October.
The share of industrial capacity in use increased to 75 percent from 74.8 percent, the Fed report said.
According to the Fed, the index was restrained by a "large decline" in output of autos and parts, which fell 3.8 percent from the previous month.
The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index rose to 93.5 this month, the highest since May 2002,
The 0.8 percent increase in the Labor Department's Producer Price Index was the biggest since March and more than the median forecast for a 0.2 percent rise. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the so-called core index rose 0.5 percent, also the largest in seven months.
Raw material prices are rising as companies try to meet demand and replace inventories and as demand increases for raw materials in other parts of the world like China. Prices for crude goods used at the earliest stages of production rose 2.6 percent.
"The recovery, tenuous at first, has finally begun to gain momentum," said Anthony Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. He said the Fed had no need to raise its benchmark interest rate "in the near future" because there was little inflation and still too much factory capacity.
Company and consumer spending may help the economy expand at a 4 percent annual rate in the year's final three months after growth of 7.2 percent last quarter, which was the fastest in almost two decades. While slower, this quarter's pace would still exceed the average of 3.6 percent during the record 10-year expansion from 1991 to 2001.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Prices"Graph tracks the index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100, seasonally adjusted since May 2002. Oct.: +0.8%Sept.: +0.3Aug.: +0.4 (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) Graph: "Industrial Production"Graph tracks the index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted since May 2002. Oct.: +0.2%Sept.: +0.5Aug.: +0.2 (Source by Federal Reserve) Graph: "Capacity Utilization"Graph tracks the total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted since May 2002. Operating RatesOct.: 75.0%Sept.: 74.9Aug.: 74.6 (Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); FOOD PRICES (73%); BUILDING SUPPLY (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%) United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Production; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System; University of Michigan; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



331 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Modest Goals For Meeting On Free Trade 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
After the collapse of global trade talks in Cancun, Mexico, trade ministers gathering in Miami on Sunday to discuss creating a free trade area for the Americas have scaled back their ambitions, hoping to avoid another debacle.
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative and co-chairman of the Miami meeting, said on Friday that the goal now was to agree "on a framework for pragmatic moves in the months ahead." By the end of the week, he said, there is a good possibility that the 34 countries of North and South America will sign a common declaration. 
 This, however, is a far cry from hopes raised last month at lower-level negotiations in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, that the countries could agree in Miami on substantive issues as well as a framework. 
But in this election season, the ministers' debates could be overshadowed by protesters hoping to turn the event into a referendum on free trade in the United States, nearly 10 years after the signing of the North America Free Trade Agreement.
This will be the first high-level trade meeting held in the United States since the 1999 meeting of the World Trade Organization in Seattle that dissolved into a melee, with protesters battling police, 500 people arrested and $3 million in property damage.
But neither the demonstrators nor the organizers expect wild violence in the streets or a breakdown of the talks this time. The tone is expected to be more sober and the issues much closer to home.
In Seattle, environmentalists dressed up as exotic sea turtles to protest the poor regulation of fishing fleets, but the demonstrators in Miami will be unemployed union members dressed as themselves, protesting the absence of basic labor standards in the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Inside the negotiating chambers in Miami, the ministers are expected to avoid outright battles over the prickly issues that have divided the United States and Brazil, the other co-chairman. 
There will be no direct confrontation over Brazilian demands that the United States lower its agriculture subsidies, which the United States says can only be negotiated through the World Trade Organization. Developing nations led by Brazil, China, India and more than a dozen other nations created a new, muscular negotiating bloc at the recent Cancun talks dedicated to convincing rich nations to reduce or eliminate their agricultural subsidies.
Instead of negotiating American demands that the nations adopt new rules for intellectual property rights, foreign investment and government procurement, the negotiators will discuss how comprehensive an agreement they want, whether there will be special treatment for smaller countries and whether countries that refuse to adopt certain parts of an agreement should be penalized with less access to markets.
The Florida citrus and sugar industries want to block any discussion of lowering tariffs that now protect their products, saying agricultural tariffs as well as subsidies can be negotiated only at the W.T.O. Robert Coker, senior vice president for public affairs at the United States Sugar Corporation, said the "agricultural consensus could break down" if the tariffs were part of the agenda.
And since Miami is competing with Panama to become the headquarters of a future Free Trade Area of the Americas, the Miami police are taking extraordinary precautions to ensure an orderly event.
But the unhappy home front is expected to be represented by tens of thousands of protesters who have already begun arriving in Miami. They include union members, religious groups, farmers, students, environmentalists and some elected officials, nearly all Democrats, who say they believe that Nafta has broken its promise to lift the living standards for many American families.
Most of all they blame Nafta for a loss of jobs that will never come back.
"We really feel that the record is clear after 10 years that Nafta has failed American and Mexican workers," said John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., in an interview. "Even in the face of devastating job losses, the Bush administration is forging ahead with these negotiations."
The unions' demands that labor rights -- to organize and bargain collectively and to prohibit child labor and discrimination -- are absent so far from the trade agenda. But the unions will be part of informal discussions about the terms of trade with other activists and nongovernmental organizations.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said that he was upset by what he called the arrogance of the Bush administration for failing to listen to critics and warned that any new trade agreement would face a tough fight in Congress.
"They've got blinders on and cotton in their ears," he said. "If they don't face up to the critical labor issues, they are headed for a fall."
Through a spokesman, Mr. Zoellick said that in all trade agreements the United States did ask its trading partners to enforce all of the pivotal labor standards. 
The rest of the world is now taking a second look at the administration's trade record. After this week's ruling by the W.T.O. that United States steel tariffs are illegal, the Bush administration wants to reassert its credentials as a global leader in free trade.
In that pursuit, Mr. Zoellick joined forces with Celso Amorim, the Brazilian foreign minister and co-chairman of the meeting, and last week the two men agreed to disagree. 
But Mr. Zoellick said on Friday that he and Mr. Amorim were still at loggerheads over the idea of benefits commensurate with responsibilities.
This, for example, would allow a country like Brazil to decide against agreeing to new laws on intellectual property rights in the hemisphere, but would curtail the benefits Brazil would receive from the further opening of markets that did, like the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (85%); AGRICULTURE (85%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RIOTS (70%); PROPERTY CRIMES (70%); REFERENDUMS (68%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (65%); ARRESTS (65%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (64%); FISHERIES (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) International Trade and World Market; Agriculture; Labor; Demonstrations and Riots; Free Trade Agreement of the Americas; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market; Organized Labor 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); ANDEAN COMMUNITY (59%) World Trade Organization; Andean Community

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); BRAZIL (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%) Miami (Fla) ; Cancun (Mexico); Latin America

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



332 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Economic Reports Cause Leading Indexes to Move Lower

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street sank yesterday as investors sifted through a series of downbeat economic reports, but drug makers, including Johnson & Johnson and Merck, got a lift as Congress neared an agreement on Medicare prescription legislation. 
 The economic reports included a drop in consumer spending, which followed a glum holiday season forecast from Wal-Mart Stores on Thursday, and an uptick in inflation at the wholesale level during October. 
 "Advance retail sales weren't so good," said Brian Williamson, an equity trader at the Boston Company Asset Management. "Retailers are a little worried about holiday shopping; they're worried about their profits; so, this number confirmed what we saw yesterday." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 69.26 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 9,768.68, losing 0.4 percent for the week.
The Nasdaq composite index declined 37.09 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,930.26, for a weekly loss of 2.1 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 8.06 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,050.35, for a weekly decline of 0.3 percent.
This was the market's first down week in three. It registered moderate declines four days out of five amid concerns about the economy, but had a solid advance on Wednesday during a brief burst of optimism about high-technology sales.
A Commerce Department report yesterday showed that Americans cut their spending in October, depressing retail sales for a second consecutive month. The news added to investor concerns that arose Thursday when Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said that it was cautious about the outlook for the fourth quarter.
Mr. Williamson said that investors were also concerned that interest rates could go up faster than expected after a government report suggested inflation was on the rise. The Labor Department said wholesale prices were up 0.8 percent in October, the largest increase in seven months. Economists forecast a rise of just 0.2 percent.
A turnaround in inflation could motivate the Federal Reserve to raise rates.
Also, the Fed reported that industrial production rose 0.2 percent in October, down from a 0.5 percent gain in September. October's increase was half what economists expected.
Some positive news came from a survey by the University of Michigan, which found that consumers were more optimistic about the economy. The university's consumer sentiment index increased to 93.5 for the first half of November, according to Dow Jones Newswires. Wall Street had expected a mid-November reading of 91.0.
Although stocks ended the day with declines, investors were not altogether discouraged. The major indexes managed gains for part of the session, and analysts were pleased that the drop was not more severe.
"We've had a good run, so seeing the market react this way is very positive," Bob Dickey, managing director of technical analysis at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis, said. "I think the big thing people are missing here is that earnings have been improving the last six quarters in a row, and that is what's driving this market. The overriding fact is optimism is growing."
Pharmaceutical stocks had gains as Congressional negotiations on a $400 billion Medicare drug plan appeared close to a conclusion. Johnson & Johnson ended the day up $2.02, at $52.12. Merck was up 78 cents, at $46.58.
Portal Software fell $6.86, to $8.40, after cutting its forecast for next year, to the disappointment of analysts. J.P. Morgan downgraded the company, a business software maker, to underweight from neutral.
Dell lost 40 cents, to $35.24, after reporting a 21 percent increase in third-quarter earnings, largely on growth in European and Asian markets. The results matched analyst expectations.
Liberty Media ended the day down 3 cents, at $10, after reporting an 86 percent rise in third-quarter net income, mostly because of new revenue from QVC Inc.
In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 8/32, to a price of 100 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.22 percent from 4.27 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 24/32, to 104 23/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.05 percent from 5.11 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); MEDICARE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



333 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: ACCORD REACHED BY REPUBLICANS FOR ENERGY BILL 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
Congressional Republicans announced Friday that they had agreed on wide-ranging national energy legislation that would provide billions of dollars in tax breaks for power producers and impose new standards intended to reduce the chances of blackouts like the one that hit the Northeast and Midwest last summer.
 The proposal, which the Republican leadership will try to push through Congress next week, was stripped of a provision that would have opened the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil exploration. But that victory for conservation groups did not quiet critics who consider the measure -- the first major energy bill in a decade -- too generous to the oil and gas industry and lacking in proposals to promote energy efficiency. 
 Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico and chairman of the conference committee resolving differences between the House and Senate bills, acknowledged that the measure, drafted almost exclusively by Republicans, was bound to attract criticism. But Mr. Domenici said it would help the nation increase and diversify its energy sources, ease a growing dependence on natural gas and improve the aging electrical transmission grid. 
"We did a total reform of the electricity laws in the country," Mr. Domenici said. "We are very hopeful that what we have done will, over time, minimize if not avoid blackouts like the one we had in New York."
The voluminous measure, the passage of which would be a victory for President Bush, was scheduled to be made public on Saturday. Lawmakers and senior aides said the electricity section would impose new mandatory reliability standards on large electricity providers. It would allow utilities to decide whether to join regional transmission organizations that some experts believe could help reduce the risk of widespread power failures. The federal government will also be given the authority to designate the routes of new high-voltage lines of "national significance" if states and local governments cannot settle land disputes. 
The measure does not go as far as the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission had proposed in its initiative to standardize the electrical grid nationwide, a plan that utilities in the South and Northwest lobbied hard to keep out of the measure. But industry and federal officials said the enactment of an energy law would spur investment in upgrading the transmission infrastructure. 
Authors of the bill agreed to double the use of corn-based ethanol as a gasoline additive, a provision viewed as essential to building political support among farm state legislators. As part of that deal, producers of the additive MTBE, which has been blamed for groundwater pollution in many parts of the country, would gain immunity from product liability lawsuits and the substance would be banned nationwide as of 2015. The MTBE provision was a priority of Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, and other lawmakers from Louisiana and Texas, where MTBE is produced. 
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, has threatened to filibuster the energy measure over the MTBE provision, which he called the "worst break for polluters" he had seen in two decades in Congress. But it was unclear whether enough Democrats would object to the measure to prevent it moving forward. 
Energy legislation has been a chief goal of the Bush administration, and passage of the measure would be a victory for President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, who headed an energy task force early in 2001 and came under criticism for conducting much of its business in secret. Mr. Cheney personally interceded in the Congressional talks when they became snagged on tax policy. Late Friday night, the White House issued a statement by President Bush in which he said that he applauded the conferees for reaching an agreement on the measure.
"A good energy bill is part of my six-point economic plan to create the conditions for job creation and a sustained recovery," the president said in his statement. "By making America less reliant on foreign sources of energy, we also will make our nation more secure."
But the outlook for the measure was uncertain, mainly in the Senate, where Democrats are angry that they were not allowed a role in the negotiations. Some Republicans were unhappy with the emerging bill as well. In a letter this week to Mr. Domenici, Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, raised several concerns about the direction of the measure, and other Republicans from the Northeast have indicated they will oppose it.
Lobbyists and lawmakers said the key to passage might be the Democratic leader, Senator Tom Daschle, who has pushed the ethanol plan to benefit corn growers in his home state, South Dakota, and across the Midwest. If Mr. Daschle supports the measure, they say, the threat of a filibuster will fade.
"I'm not going to pop any Champagne corks until we finish our conference meeting next week, until the House votes and the Senate votes," said Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana and the chief House negotiator on the measure.
Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico, the senior Democrat on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said he would be reviewing the measure over the weekend to figure out which way his colleagues should vote.
"I think we are being asked to take it or leave it," said Mr. Bingaman, who said the fact that Arctic drilling was not included was not enough to let the bill pass. "The old adage, 'It could have been worse,' is not an adequate judgment for people to vote for it."
Though Mr. Domenici and Mr. Tauzin said they would present the measure to a full House-Senate conference committee on Monday, Republican tax writers were still working out some final details Friday, and no price tag for the tax incentives was available. But the bill was expected to provide $18 billion or more in tax breaks to promote greater use of coal in power plants, to renew interest in nuclear power, to encourage oil companies to drill in deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico and to expand the generation of power through wind, among other things.
The measure apparently does not include a provision sought by Mr. Bingaman and others to require electricity producers to increase their use of renewable fuels, nor does it institute new auto mileage standards that advocates say could significantly lower petroleum consumption.
Knowing they will come under fire for the wide benefits the measure grants to the energy industry in the form of tax breaks, research projects, incentives for a new natural gas pipeline from Alaska and easing of regulatory requirements, Republican authorson Friday began promoting the capacity of the measure to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. "This is, in essence, a jobs bill," Mr. Tauzin said. 
Environmental organizations immediately attacked the measure as a special interest grab bag for the nation's energy companies. An official of the League of Conservation Voters called it "bad for the environment, bad for public health and bad for American taxpayers." Another group, Public Citizen, warned that the repeal of the almost 70-year-old Public Utility Holding Company Act, as proposed in the bill, would allow corporations and investment banks to acquire utilities and could lead to more "Enron-style scandals."
The proposal does not include a controversial plan to conduct an inventory of oil and gas reserves in coastal areas now off limits to drilling, though Mr. Tauzin said he would pursue that separately.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Pete V. Domenici and Representative Billy Tauzin getting ready for a news conference yesterday on energy legislation. Details of the bill, drafted almost exclusively by Republicans, are to be made public today. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) Chart: "AT ISSUE: The New Energy Bill"Some highlights of the agreement on energy legislation announced yesterday by House and Senate Republican negotiators: TAX INCENTIVES -- Provides more than $18 billion in tax incentives, most to boost development of oil, natural gas, coal and nuclear power. The bill's final language and details on many of its provisions have not yet been released. ELECTRICITY GRID -- Imposes reliability standards and penalties on the transmission system for the first time. The federal government will also be given the authority to designate the routes of those transmission lines that are of "national significance" if local governments and states cannot agree on their paths. ELECTRIC UTILITIES -- Repeals the Public Utility Holding Company Act, a 1935 law that strictly regulates the business dealings of multistate holding companies that operate electric utilities. GAS ADDITIVES -- Doubles the use of corn-based ethanol as a gasoline additive, a boon to farm states. As part of that deal, producers of the additive MTBE, which has been blamed for ground water pollution, would win immunity from product liability lawsuits, though MTBE would be banned nationwide as of 2015. NEW PIPELINE -- Includes tax subsidies to encourage the construction of a $20 billion natural gas pipeline from Alaska to Chicago. What's not in the bill President's proposal to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil drilling. Plan to conduct an inventory of oil and gas reserves in coastal areas now off-limits to drilling. Requirements that electricity producers steadily increase their use of renewable fuels. New requirements to improve auto mileage standards. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FUEL ADDITIVES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); LOBBYING (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WILDLIFE (71%); OIL EXPLORATION (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (65%); BIOFUELS (64%); ETHANOL (64%); WATER POLLUTION (63%) Energy and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation; Water Pollution; Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether; Energy and Power; Filibusters and Debate Curbs; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Taxation

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Carl Hulse; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (91%) Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2003 



334 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: November 16, 2003 

 BODY:


	 	 	 		 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 		 	 	 	 1	2	33	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The murder of a curator at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a centuries-old secret society.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 2	1	6	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died while trying to rescue a little girl from danger discovers that all will be explained to him in the afterlife.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 3	3	3	BLOW FLY, by Patricia Cornwell. (Putnam, $26.95.) No longer the chief medical examiner of Virginia, Kay Scarpetta tries to unravel a conspiracy involving the Wolfman, a killer she helped put away years earlier.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 4	4	2	SHEPHERDS ABIDING, by Jan Karon. (Viking, $24.95.) Father Tim tries to spruce up a nativity scene that has been neglected over time; a "Mitford Years" novel.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 5		1	BLOOD CANTICLE, by Anne Rice. (Knopf, $25.95.) Continuing "The Vampire Chronicles": longing for goodness and love, the formerly evil Lestat struggles with his vampirism.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 6	5	8	BLEACHERS, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A former star quarterback returns to his Southern hometown after he learns that his high school coach, a local legend, has a terminal illness.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 7		1	THE LONE DROW, by R. A. Salvatore. (Wizards of the Coast, $25.95.) A fantasy novel featuring the mighty warrior Drizzt Do'Urden; the second volume of the "Hunter's Blades" trilogy.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 8	7	2	BABYLON RISING, by Tim LaHaye and Greg Dinallo. (Bantam, $24.95.) A fearless archaeologist and biblical scholar confronts the greatest evil of all.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 9	6	5	 *SPLIT SECOND, by David Baldacci. (Warner, $26.95.) Two discredited Secret Service agents become embroiled in political intrigue and murder cases.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 10		1	THE TRISTAN BETRAYAL, by Robert Ludlum. (St. Martin's, $27.95.) In wartime Europe, a handsome young American who dabbles in espionage realizes he is on his own after the Nazis destroy his spy network.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 11		1	LOVE, by Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $23.95.) The widow and the granddaughter of a long-dead hotel owner fight over his legacy.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 12	8	8	THE WEDDING, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $23.95.) A man tries to regain his wife's love; a sequel to "The Notebook."		 	 	 		 	 	 	 13	9	4	HELLO, DARKNESS, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) The host of a late-night radio show in Austin, Tex., finds herself the target of a killer.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 14		1	NAUGHTY OR NICE, by Eric Jerome Dickey. (Dutton, $17.95.) Three sisters, each of them dealing with a romantic crisis, come together at Christmastime.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 15	12	5	THE PLEASURE OF MY COMPANY, by Steve Martin. (Hyperion, $19.95.) A coming-of-middle-age story about an eccentric named Daniel Pecan Cambridge.		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 		 	 	 	 1	8	2	A ROYAL DUTY, by Paul Burrell. (Putnam, $25.95.) A memoir by the man who served as butler to Diana, Princess of Wales.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 2	1	4	DUDE, WHERE'S MY COUNTRY? by Michael Moore. (Warner, $24.95.) The author of "Stupid White Men" (and director of "Bowling for Columbine") calls for "regime change" in Washington.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 3	2	11	LIES (and THE LYING LIARS WHO TELL THEM), by Al Franken. (Dutton, $24.95.) A satirical critique of the rhetoric of right-wing pundits and politicians.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 4	3	6	WHO'S LOOKING OUT FOR YOU? by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $24.95.) The host of "The O'Reilly Factor" attacks those individuals and institutions that he believes have let down the American people.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 5	7	6	BUSHWHACKED, by Molly Ivins and Lou Dubose. (Random House, $24.95.) Two Texas journalists offer up an indictment of the Bush administration.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 6		1	BRINGING ELIZABETH HOME, by Ed Smart and Lois Smart with Laura Morton. (Doubleday, $22.95.) The story, told by her parents, of the Utah teenager who was abducted last year.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 7	4	5	FLYBOYS, by James Bradley. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) An account of eight American airmen who were shot down and captured by the Japanese in World War II; by the author of "Flags of Our Fathers."		 	 	 		 	 	 	 8		1	THE FUNNY THING IS . . . , by Ellen DeGeneres. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A collection of humor pieces by the stand-up comic and talk show host.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 9	6	4	EVERY SECOND COUNTS, by Lance Armstrong with Sally Jenkins. (Broadway, $24.95.) The second memoir by the five-time winner of the Tour de France.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 10	5	2	REFLECTIONS, by Barbara Bush. (Lisa Drew/Scribner, $28.) The former first lady meditates on the life she has led since moving out of the White House.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 11		1	THE STONE COLD TRUTH, by Stone Cold Steve Austin with Jim (J. R.) Ross as told to Dennis A. Brent. (World Wrestling Entertainment/Pocket Books, $26.) The autobiography of a professional wrestler.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 12		1	BROKEN MUSIC, by Sting. (Dial, $26.) From life in Newcastle to life with the Police: a memoir by the rock musician and singer.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 13	10	2	I AM WHAT I ATE . . . AND I'm FRIGHTENED!!! by Bill Cosby. (HarperEntertainment, $19.95.) The comedian muses on his lifelong cravings and on America's obsession with a "healthy lifestyle."		 	 	 		 	 	 	 14	9	8	 *THE GREAT UNRAVELING, by Paul Krugman. (Norton, $25.95.) A volume of essays, most from The New York Times, that are "mainly about economic disappointment, bad leadership and the lies of the powerful."		 	 	 		 	 	 	 15	12	18	BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) A biography of the scientist, inventor, writer and Revolutionary statesman.		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Children's Chapter Books		 	 	 		 	 	 	 1	1	6	THE SLIPPERY SLOPE, by Lemony Snicket. (HarperCollins, $10.99.) The three Baudelaire siblings encounter more unpleasantness. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 2	2	20	HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $29.99.) A British teenager confronts dark discoveries at witchcraft school. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 3	3	10	ERAGON, by Christopher Paolini. (Knopf, $18.95.) A boy and a young dragon must navigate a bewildering world of dark powers. (Ages 12 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 4	4	10	HAUNTED CASTLE ON HALLOWS EVE, by Mary Pope Osborne. Illustrated by Sal Murdocca. (Stepping Stone/Random House, $11.95.) The magic treehouse takes Jack and Annie to Camelot again. (Ages 6 to 9)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 5	7	158	THE BAD BEGINNING, by Lemony Snicket. (HarperCollins, $10.99.) The Baudelaire siblings find misfortune everywhere they turn. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 6	5	6	JUNIE B., FIRST GRADER: ONE-MAN BAND, by Barbara Park. Illustrated by Denise Brunkus. (Stepping Stone/Random House, $11.95.) A little girl wants to perform in a halftime show. (Ages 4 to 8)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 7	8	128	THE REPTILE ROOM, by Lemony Snicket. (HarperCollins, $10.99.) The second book in a series about the Baudelaire siblings. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 8	6	5	LOAMHEDGE, by Brian Jacques. (Philomel, $23.99.) The 16th volume of the Redwall fantasy saga. (Ages 8 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 9	9	78	THE WIDE WINDOW, by Lemony Snicket. (HarperCollins, $10.99.) The Baudelaire siblings continue to find misfortune. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 10	10	4	INKHEART, by Cornelia Funke. (Chicken House/ Scholastic, $19.95.) An evil fictional character escapes from the book a girl is reading and turns up in her living room. (Ages 10 and up)	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Nov. 1, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books. Best-seller lists for children's picture books, children's chapter books and children's paperbacks, respectively, are published in rotation on succeeding weeks; all three lists appear each week on the Book Review's Web site. Publishers have provided the age designations for their best-selling children's titles. Rankings for children's paperbacks do not include serials.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); FANTASY LITERATURE (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); DEATHS (71%); CHRISTMAS (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS 

COMPANY: WIZARDS OF THE COAST INC (54%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5092 TOYS & HOBBY GOODS & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (78%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); MITCH ALBOM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003



335 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Nonfiction 

BYLINE:  By Eric P. Nash 

 BODY:
 BEHIND THE GATES
Life, Security and the Pursuit
of Happiness in Fortress America.
By Setha Low.
Routledge, $26.
 The anthropologist Setha Low first became aware of exclusionary communities growing up in the Westwood Village section of Los Angeles in the 1950's, when a schoolmate's mother would not allow her into her house because she was Jewish. Low writes in "Behind the Gates" that the covenants, contracts and deed restrictions of private housing associations have replaced the social contract in American life. Homeowners' associations, condos and co-ops are metastasizing across the country. In 1970, only 1 percent of housing units were governed by such rules; today, half of all new metropolitan units are part of this "social revolution in governance," Low writes. Suburban gated communities are the most striking example: one-third of all new communities in Southern California are gated, and in Tampa, four of five new homes worth more than $300,000 are within gates. But what are these people trying to wall out? Their motives include "fear of crime and others," Low writes, as well as desire for security and "niceness," but the main anxiety is disappearing from the middle class altogether. "The gates are used symbolically," Low concludes, "to ward off many of life's unknowns, including unemployment, loss of loved ones, and downward mobility." The "symbolic arrival" of a house in the suburbs is no longer enough; class lines must now be fortified. Las Vegas, one of the nation's fastest-growing metropolitan regions, may be a portent of Fortress America: a ring of gated enclaves circling a dead city core. Eric P. Nash.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SUBURBS (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); LITERATURE (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (71%); CITIES (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: NASH, ERIC P; LOW, SETHA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: BEHIND THE GATES (BOOK)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



336 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES; 
Tasting Korea in Los Angeles

BYLINE:  By MARK BITTMAN; MARK BITTMAN writes for the Dining section of The Times.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES has one of the largest Korean-American populations in North America. Its Koreatown contains countless restaurants, most with strikingly similar menus. Sorting through them takes a combination of trial and error, word of mouth and luck. 
 Not exactly torture, since the flavors of Korean food are widely appealing; I like to think of it as Japanese food with guts. There is little subtlety here, because Koreans favor garlic, chilies, sesame oil and soy sauce, and use all of them liberally. 
 Furthermore, eating Korean barbecue -- table-grilled meat, fish and vegetables -- is an enjoyable process in which everyone can cook; all but one of the restaurants below are equipped with built-in tabletop grills. 
In Los Angeles, some attempt has been made to bring Korean food into the larger community. Woo Lae Oak, a small chain (with a branch in SoHo), has a gorgeous restaurant on La Cienega in Beverly Hills, a major street that also features a Tony Roma's, Lawry's and Benihana. Here you can listen to trip-hop, be served by hip young people speaking perfect English, look at a wine list and eat soulless Korean food. 
At the restaurants below, in contrast, the service is often brusque, the music terrible, the desserts practically nonexistent, and the beverages of choice soju, a kind of mild vodka flavored with either lemon or cucumber, or beer -- usually OB, the popular Korean brew. The food, however, is terrific. 

Chosun Galbee
Probably the best place in Los Angeles to initiate people into Korean cuisine, it is less showy than Woo Lae Oak, but it is good looking -- clean, modern and altogether pleasant. 
Yet from the parking lot it looks much like a fortress, giving no indication of the treasures within. There is an outside eating area, tree-lined, spacious and airy, with arched steel ribs supporting a roof of corrugated fiberglass to provide shade. The open sides allow a breeze, and, as a result, afternoon eating is comfortably temperate. 
The tables are made of granite, the floor of slate, and the overall impression is gallery-like. The more modest interior is also stripped down, with granite tables, white walls, and white tablecloths. 
Service is helpful though certain practices are disconcerting -- plates are almost never changed from one course to the next, service plates are rarely cleared from the table, napkins are scarce and made of paper. Nonetheless there is more contact between server and customer than in many Korean restaurants. 
The food is not unusual but it's very good. If the spices have been toned down a bit too much for my taste, the quality of the ingredients is stepped up. On a hot summer day, we started with a cold, bright red kimchi soup (kimchi, a spicy pickled cabbage, is a staple of Korean homes and restaurants). This was followed by the standard array of little plates known as panchan (think of them as a series of amuses-bouches), including cold broccoli with chili-bean paste, bean sprouts with sesame, sauteed fish cakes, pickled garlic with cold boiled beef, potato salad (yes, mayonnaise and all), and kimchi. 
The barbecue reflects the growing tendency to offer diners more than the usual selection of different cuts of beef that, until quite recently, was all that was grilled in Korean restaurants. Here, in addition to galbee (boneless short ribs) and other cuts of beef, there are chicken, shrimp and pork. All are handled the same way: you use tongs or chopsticks to turn the meat (if you appear helpless, a server will assist), and then fold the grilled meat into a large leaf of romaine lettuce, along with shredded scallions, soy sauce, bean sauce, a bit of rice and, if you like, garlic and jalapenos. This you eat with your hands. 
Dishes cooked in the kitchen excel. Bright red spicy noodles, served cold with raw skate, were just short of searingly hot, although served ice cold, mushy and crunchy; I couldn't get enough of these. Chop chae (glass noodles with meat and vegetables) was as good as any I've had. Dol sot bi bim bop, rice with a variety of meat, vegetables, and egg, is cooked in a stone pot until the bottom is browned, then combined with chili-bean paste to taste; it was perfect here. 

YongSuSan
 You could write what I know about the history of Korean food on the back of a postage stamp, so when YongSuSan's Web site reports that the restaurant "serves the Kaesong fare of the ancient Koryo Dynasty which was the golden era of Korean cuisine," I have to take their word for it. 
What I do know is that, as a nearly lifelong fan of Korean food, I was blown away when a friend sent me here five years ago, saying it was unlike any Korean food he'd ever eaten. 
He was right. Not only is YongSuSan unusual, it is sensational. It's a place I've delighted in introducing to other people, even though with its hokey color scheme and ultra-bright lighting, it isn't immediately appealing. 
The restaurant is broken up into a dozen or more small rooms, many private. If you show up without a reservation, or on your own, you're likely to be shepherded into the largest room, an unimpressive communal dining room. 
Many nights, however, most customers, whether couples or a large party, wind up in a private room, depriving you of the buzz of a busy restaurant but providing such pleasures as privacy and very personal service. Furthermore, there are real tablecloths, real napkins and reasonably attentive service.
You may order a la carte, but I've never seen anyone do so. There are several fixed-price menus, with escalating levels of luxury and cost, and I usually go for one in the middle of the pack. 
On my most recent visit I started off with a sweet, earthy, superthick butternut squash soup and a more-than-passable European-style salad. Then came a few paired and contrasting dishes: a sharp pile of shredded carrots and beansprouts with chilies and raw garlic, teamed with a mild, sweet mound of sesame-flavored mung bean noodles. Fatty steamed pork was served with kimchi and a vinegar dipping sauce; next to it was a plate of shredded cucumber with jellyfish, a 1,000-year egg (hard-cooked in soy sauce and spices), a little beef, and a lot of wasabi. 
The prized, intensely spicy whole-cabbage kimchi, essentially a globe of fire, was next, served with the taming influences of chop chae, at room temperature. Beautifully fried shrimp in egg batter with zucchini coins pressed into it followed, along with fried petrale sole, a West Coast variety. 
Continuing the pattern, all the dishes were fairly small, many without sauces and quite mild: tiny, hand-rolled, multicolored crepes with shredded vegetables and meat; a skewer of mushrooms, scallops, and broccoli; a small but lovely round of panchan, including black beans and dried sweet-and-spicy fish; and finally, perfectly cooked galbee, not done at the table, but in the kitchen. 

Seoul Garden
Known for its great shabu-shabu, Seoul Garden also offers a few very authentic dishes that alone make it worth the visit. This was my first (and to date, only) meal here, but I went with a small crowd and we ate through most of the menu. 
Seoul Garden is not inspiring looking: One of my companions called it "modern-traditional Home Depot special." Aside from a brilliantly backlit sign depicting how exactly to deal with shabu-shabu (not that you couldn't figure it out yourself), and the fact that 90 percent of the customers are Korean, you might think that you had stumbled into Pat's Kountry Kitchen in Smithtown, U.S.A. 
Never mind. The granite tables are well-equipped with powerful burners, and the $16.50 shabu-shabu special is quite a lot of fun. You are provided with a pot of simmering broth and a huge plate of thin-sliced beef, watercress, tofu and mushrooms, all of which you cook yourself; a sesame-lemon dipping sauce helps boost the flavor. Once you've finished that, the server cooks some noodles in the now gloriously scented broth. When those are done, the broth gets thickened with rice and egg. It's an experience, but it was not the gastronomic highlight of the evening. 
That honor belonged to other dishes. The cold spicy noodles, cut up with scissors, are superb. Grilled eel, Japanese style, is perfect, and served in the quantity you want (lots) but don't get in a sushi setting. Raw crab marinated in chili paste, perhaps the messiest dish in the world (you must use your fingers, and the sauce is plentiful and runny) is, for those energetic and adventurous enough to try it, quite rewarding and worth the work. Black cod in a dark, spicy sauce, which is served at most of the restaurants I visited, was very good here. 
The high point followed a dish of meat seared on a metal pan (another do-it-yourselfer), with onions and butter. The meat itself is unexciting but, when we finished, the server took the leftovers and combined them with a few vegetables, sesame oil, chili paste and cooked rice, making a flat cake on the pan. Sitting over fairly high heat, it waited while my party drank soju and beer and finished up the scraps of other dishes. After a while, we simply began scraping the now-crusty rice off the pan. Not exactly dessert, but a great meal-ender. 

Sa Rit Gol
This is the joint that the in-the-know people -- both Korean-Americans and local food hounds -- will send you to. Part of its charm is its lack of same; not to put too fine a point on it, the dark wood walls have a nice patina of greasy smoke, doorbells ring when diners want to summon waiters, the booths are not especially comfortable, and the service is rude and hasty. 
Having said all that, I've never regretted a visit here, and at each I have eaten memorably good food. The panchan -- which, to me, are the heart and soul of a good Korean restaurant-- are the best of any at the restaurants discussed here: there are pickled onions in sesame; boiled beef with jalapenos; tofu in chili; mustard greens; mook (a kind of starchy jelly made from a root vegetable, something everyone should sample at least once); and, on my recent visit, a kimchi prepared with scallion roots, as economical a dish as has ever been made. 
The tabletop cooking is also first-rate, especially the boneless short ribs, which are cut lengthwise here to make a long strip. Strips of beef breast, cooked on a steel skillet with oyster mushrooms and onions, are another winner.
But it is the kitchen-simmered dishes that really shine. A highly spiced beef and tofu stew with lentils would alone satisfy me on most occasions. I couldn't stop eating the rice cooked in a stone pot with kimchi, and the huge portion of black cod, with a boatload of root vegetables, would be considered haute cuisine in another setting. 

Bill of fare
Unless specified, none of these Los Angeles restaurants allow smoking.
Chosun Galbee, 3330 West Olympic Boulevard; (323) 734-3330, daily, 11 to 11 p.m.; all credit cards. Smoking on the patio.
YongSuSan, 950 South Vermont Avenue; (213) 388-3042, daily 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. and 5:30 to 9:30 p.m., all credit cards.
Seoul Garden, 1833 West Olympic Boulevard; (213) 386-8477, Monday to Saturday, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., all credit cards.
Sa Rit Gol, 3189 West Olympic Boulevard; (213) 387-0909; daily 10:30 a.m. to 11 p.m., no American Express. Smoking on patio.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tong Hee Jin holds a beef Genghis Khan dish at Seoul Garden; the actor Bokeen Woodbine, Michelle Roy and Carrie Seeley at Sa Rit Gol; Chosun Galbee. Inside YongSuSan. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Sea bass with enoki mushrooms at Sa Rit Gol.; Chong Ok Kim rolls small crepes at YongSuSan. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. 21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); BEER & ALE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: YONGSUSAN (LOS ANGELES, CALIF, RESTAURANT); SEOUL GARDEN (LOS ANGELES, CALIF, RESTAURANT); SA RIT GOL (LOS ANGELES, CALIF, RESTAURANT); CHOSUN GALBEE (LOS ANGELES, CALIF, RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: BITTMAN, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (98%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



337 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Jeri Johnson, Iain Wooster

 BODY:
Jeri Lynne Johnson, a daughter of Raye and Jerry Johnson of Bryn Mawr, Pa., was married in Philadelphia last evening to Iain Martin Wooster, a son of Linda and Robert Wooster of High Wycombe, England. Bishop Charles E. Bennison Jr. of the Episcopal diocese of Pennsylvania performed the ceremony at the Philadelphia Episcopal Cathedral. 
 Ms. Johnson, 31, is keeping her name. She is the assistant conductor for the Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia and the principal conductor for its Arts in Motion program. She graduated from Wellesley College and is a candidate for a doctorate in music theory from the University of Chicago. Her father is the president of eMoney Advisor, a company in Conshohocken, Pa., that designs and sells computer software for financial advisers. 
 Mr. Wooster, 32, is the field operations director for Maven Management, a market research company in High Wycombe. He is also studying for a bachelor's degree at the London School of Economics. His mother is a stock manager for the High Wycombe branch of Tesco, a British grocery store chain. His father is a craftsman at Verco Office Furniture, a manufacturer in High Wycombe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); OFFICE DESIGN (73%); RELIGION (71%); MUSIC (70%); RETAILERS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (53%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (52%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, JERI LYNNE; WOOSTER, IAIN MARTIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



338 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: 13 Visiting Queen Mary 2 Die in Accident 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
What was planned as a day of celebration turned to tragedy on Saturday when a gangway with about 50 relatives and friends of workmen on the Queen Mary 2 collapsed, killing at least 13 people. 
 At least 32 people were injured, police and fire officials said. Early reports said several children were among the dead but officials said later that was not confirmed. 
 The accident occurred at dockside in the sprawling shipyards in St.-Nazaire, in western France, where workmen have been putting the finishing touches on the 1,132-foot Queen Mary 2, the largest and costliest vessel ever built. The deputy prefect of St.-Nazaire, Jean-Marc Falcone, said the gangway had been installed on Friday especially for the weekend visits. 
The liner is being constructed for $800 million by the French shipbuilder Alstom Marine for the Cunard Line, now a unit of the Carnival Corporation. In September, the ship underwent two trial runs in the North Atlantic, and returned Tuesday. The vast liner, which will carry up to 2,620 passengers on its first Atlantic crossing in January, from Southampton, England, to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was open this weekend for visits by family members of the workmen, from at least 800 companies, who have been installing cabins and swimming pools, a spa and a planetarium and restaurants. 
It remained unclear what caused the gangway to come loose at least 30 feet above the dockside. A shipyard official, Philippe Kasse, said about 50 people were on the gangway when it collapsed, most of them family members and children of the shipyard workers.
The accident is the latest blow for Alstom, which nearly collapsed earlier this year from a cash shortage before the French government bailed it out.
Alstom was awash in orders in the 1990's as the North American cruise market exploded, and cruise lines ordered dozens of vessels at European shipyards, which were seeking to overcome competition from low-cost shipbuilding yards in South Korea and Japan by specializing in high-value vessels like cruise liners.
But the luxury segment of the cruise industry weakened sharply as the souring of the global economy, the war in Iraq and fears of terrorist attacks and diseases like SARS took their toll on the travel industry.
After trips to Florida, the Caribbean and South America next winter, the QM2 will make its inaugural voyage to New York in April, where it will join the Queen Elizabeth 2, the Cunard liner it is intended to replace. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 16 about a fatal gangway collapse on the Queen Mary 2 at St.-Nazaire in western France referred imprecisely to the ship's ranking. At 1,132 feet in length and a cost of $800 million, it is the largest and costliest of passenger vessels, but not of vessels over all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); FAMILY (89%); CRUISES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); CHILDREN (72%); IRAQ WAR (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (83%); A MANZONI & C SPA (67%); ALSTOM SA (56%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (83%); ALO (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (83%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (67%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (75%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



339 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: For Middle Class, Health Insurance Becomes a Luxury 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
The last time Kevin Thornton had health insurance was three years ago, which was not much of a problem until he began having trouble swallowing.
 "I broke down earlier this year and went in and talked to a doctor about it," said Mr. Thornton, who lives in Sherman, about 60 miles north of Dallas. 
 A barium X-ray cost him $130, and the radiologist another $70, expenses he charged to his credit cards. The doctor ordered other tests that Mr. Thornton simply could not afford. 
"I was supposed to go back after the X-ray results came, but I decided just to live with it for a while," he said. "I may just be a walking time bomb."
Mr. Thornton, 41, left a stable job with good health coverage in 1998 for a higher salary at a dot-com company that went bust a few months later. Since then, he has worked on contract for various companies, including one that provided insurance until the project ended in 2000. "I failed to keep up the payments that would have been required to maintain my coverage," he said. "It was just too much money."
Mr. Thornton is one of more than 43million people in the United States who lack health insurance, and their numbers are rapidly increasing because of ever soaring cost and job losses. Many states, including Texas, are also cutting back on subsidies for health care, further increasing the number of people with no coverage.
The majority of the uninsured are neither poor by official standards nor unemployed. They are accountants like Mr. Thornton, employees of small businesses, civil servants, single working mothers and those working part time or on contract.
"Now it's hitting people who look like you and me, dress like you and me, drive nice cars and live in nice houses but can't afford $1,000 a month for health insurance for their families," said R. King Hillier, director of legislative relations for Harris County, which includes Houston.
Paying for health insurance is becoming a middle-class problem, and not just here. "After paying for health insurance, you take home less than minimum wage," says a poster in New York City subways sponsored by Working Today, a nonprofit agency that offers health insurance to freelancers, cabdrivers and other types of independent contractors in New York. "Welcome to middle-class poverty." In Southern California, 70,000 supermarket workers have been on strike for five weeks over plans to cut their health benefits.
The insurance crisis is especially visible in Texas, which has the highest proportion of uninsured in the country -- almost one in every four residents. The state has a large population of immigrants; its labor market is dominated by low-wage service sector jobs, and it has a higher than average number of small businesses, which are less likely to provide health benefits because they pay higher insurance costs than large companies.
State cuts to subsidies for health insurance to help close a $10 billion budget gap will cost the state $500 million in federal matching money and are expected to further spur the rise in uninsured. In September, for example, more than half a million children enrolled in a state- and federal-subsidized insurance program lost dental, vision and most mental care coverage, and some 169,000 children will lose all insurance by 2005. 
"These were tough economic times that the legislature was dealing with, and the governor believed in setting the tone for the legislative session that the government must operate the way Texas families do and Texas businesses do and live within its means," said Kathy Walt, spokeswoman for Gov. Rick Perry.
She noted that the legislature raised spending on health and human services by $1 billion this year, and that lawmakers passed two bills intended to make it easier for small businesses to provide health insurance for their employees.
Those measures, however, will not help Theresa Pardo or other Texas residents like her who have to make tough choices about medical care they need but cannot afford.
Ms. Pardo, a 29-year-old from Houston, said that having no insurance meant choosing between buying an inhaler for her 9-year-old asthmatic daughter or buying her a birthday present. The girl, Morgan, lost her state-subsidized insurance last month, and now her mother must pay $80 instead of $5 for the inhaler. Rent, car payments and insurance, day care and utilities cost Ms. Pardo more than $1,200 a month, leaving less than $200 for food, gas and other expenses. So even though her employer, the Harris County government, provides her with low-cost insurance, she cannot afford the additional $275 a month she would have to pay to add her daughter to her plan. 
When Morgan's dentist recently wanted to pull a tooth, Ms. Pardo hesitated. The tooth extraction proceeded, but: "I had to ask him, if you pull this tooth, will it cause other problems? Because if it does, I can't afford to deal with them."
Lorenda Stevenson said her choice was between buying medicine to treat patches of peeling, flaking skin on her hands, arms and face and making sure her son could continue his after-school tennis program. "There's no way I will cut that out unless we don't have money for food," she said.
Mrs. Stevenson's husband, Bill, lost his management job at WorldCom two years ago, when an accounting scandal forced the company into bankruptcy. They managed to pay $900 a month for Cobra, the government policy that allows workers to continue their coverage after they lose their jobs, but when the cost rose to $1,200, they could no longer afford it.
When their son, a ninth grader, needed a physical and shot to take tennis, Mrs. Stevenson turned to the Rockwall Area Health Clinic, a nonprofit clinic in Rockwall, a city of 13,000 northeast of Dallas. The clinic charged her $20 instead of the $400 she estimated she would have paid at the doctor's office.
"I sat filling out the paperwork and crying," she said, tears streaming down her face. "I was so embarrassed to bring him here."
A salve to treat her skin condition costs $27, and she pays roughly $50 a month for medications for high blood pressure and hormones. She does without medication she needs for acid reflux, treating the conditions sporadically with samples from the clinic. 
Carol Johnston cannot afford even doctor visits. A single mother living in Houston, she lost her job in health care administration in May and she said she was still unemployed despite filling out 500 to 600 applications and attending countless job fairs.
Cobra would have cost $214 a month, or more than one-fifth of the $1,028 in unemployment she gets a month. As it is, her monthly bills for rent, car, utilities and phone exceed her income.
She got a 12-month deferral on her student loans, and Ford pushed her car payments back by two months. The Johnstons rely on television for entertainment and almost never use air-conditioning, despite Houston's muggy, hot climate.
Now Ms. Johnston's 16-year-old son is losing the portion of his insurance that covered treatment for his learning and emotional disabilities because of state cutbacks. 
Ms. Johnston herself does not qualify for Medicaid, the government insurance program for the indigent, because her income is too high, the same reason she qualifies for only $10 a month in food stamps.
"I worry, I worry so much about making sure my son is safe," she said. 
As for her own health, Ms. Johnston has two cysts in one breast and three in another but has had only one aspirated because she cannot afford to check on the others. "Do I have to move to Iraq to get help?" she asked. "They have $87 billion for folks over there," she said, referring to money Congress allocated for military operations and rebuilding. 
Experts warn that allowing health problems to fester is only going to increase the costs of providing health care for the uninsured. "As Americans, when are we going to realize it's cheaper to save them on the front end than when they get cancer and show up in the emergency room?" said Sandra B. Thurman, executive director of PediPlace, a nonprofit health clinic in Lewisville, Tex.
Many hospitals and neighborhood clinics here say that the well-heeled are now joining the poor in seeking their care. Emergency rooms are particularly hard hit, since federal law requires them to treat anyone who walks through their doors for emergency treatment, regardless of whether they can pay. 
Public hospital emergency rooms are even harder hit, since private hospitals will move quickly to shift uninsured patients to them. And clinics for the poor are also seeing an increase in demand.
A clinic run by Central Dallas Ministries charges patients $5 for a doctor visit, $10 for medication and $15 if laboratory work is needed, but often settles for no payment from many of the 3,500 patients it treats each year.
"I'm not real optimistic it will get a lot better," said Larry Morris James, executive director of Central Dallas Ministries. "Demographic and economic trends tell you that it's probably going to get worse."
For Irma Arellano, the problem has already hit home. Mrs. Arellano is a secretary in the Royse school district northeast of Dallas, which provides her health insurance for $35 a month but offers no discounts for her three children or husband.
Two years ago, the Arellanos paid $269 a month to insure the family. The price jumped last year to $339 and this year to $780, more than their monthly mortgage payment.
Her husband works for a small landscaping company that does not offer insurance. So Mrs. Arellano is insured, but her husband, Jose, and their three children -- Jackie, 16; Joe, 15; and Anthony, 13 -- are going without insurance.
The Arellanos' income, which ranges from $2,800 to $3,200 a month, makes them ineligible for state-subsidized insurance. Their basic expenses run $2,000 a month or more.
"I'm one of those people in the middle," Mrs. Arellano said. "We don't make enough to pay for insurance ourselves, but we make too much to qualify for CHIP," the government-subsidized program for children.
So her children were recently at the Rockwall clinic for the physicals they need to participate in after-school sports, paying $25 instead of the $100 or more Mrs. Arellano would have paid at the doctor's office.
The family has catastrophic insurance, but Mrs. Arellano is uncertain how much longer she can afford it. Mr. Arellano's income typically drops in the winter, and his wife is hoping the children will then qualify for the state insurance program.
Even so, newly initiated regulations require families to reapply for the insurance every six months, rather than once a year, so they are not likely to qualify for long. 
"I'll take what I can get," Mrs. Arellano said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two years ago, the Arellanos, from left, Joe, Jackie, Jose, Irma and Anthony, paid $269 a month for health insurance. The price jumped to $339 last year and this year to $780, more than the mortgage payment. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times); Carol Johnston and her son Steven, who is losing his insurance covering the treatment of his learning and emotional disabilities. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: The Uninsured"The percentage of people in the United States without health insurance for the entire year, 2002, by characteristics. TOTAL: 15.2%MALE: 16.7FEMALE: 13.9WHITE: 14.2BLACK: 20.2ASIAN: 18.4HISPANIC*: 32.417 OR YOUNGER: 11.618-24: 29.625-34: 24.935-44: 17.745-64: 13.565 OR OLDER: 0.8NATIVE: 12.8FOREIGN BORN: 33.4NORTHEAST: 13.0MIDWEST: 11.7SOUTH: 17.5WEST: 17.1 *Can be of any race. (Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); RADIOLOGY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); STRIKES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



340 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-20

2 Copters Collide in Iraq, Killing at Least 17 Soldiers
Two American Black Hawk helicopters collided in midair and crashed in the northern city of Mosul, killing at least 17 of the American soldiers aboard and wounding 5 others, officials said. One soldier was missing. 1

The Iraqi Governing Council announced details of an agreement with the United States that it said would form a democratic, pluralistic provisional government next spring providing for freedom of religion and civilian control of the military. The council's president said allied military forces would remain only as invited guests. 17

Officials and diplomats at the United Nations, while welcoming the United States' policy change in Iraq, warned against a rapid reduction of military forces and said they feared the United States would dump Iraq into the hands of the United Nations. 18

Synagogue Bombing in Istanbul
Two truck bombs exploded nearly simultaneously outside two synagogues crowded with worshipers in Istanbul, killing at least 20 people and wounding more than 300. Rescue workers toiled into the night, carrying off the dead and the burned and the wounded. 1

Fatal Accident on Queen Mary 2
Thirteen people died and about 32 were injured in an accident on the Queen Mary 2, the world's biggest and costliest cruise ship, when a dockside gangway collapsed at Saint-Nazaire in western France, where finishing touches were being made on the cruise liner. 4

NATIONAL 22-33

Tentative Medicare Pact Reached by Lawmakers
The top Republicans in Congress and two Democratic senators announced that they had reached an agreement in principle on a bill to help millions of elderly people buy prescription drugs. 1

More Middle Class Uninsured
More than 43 million people in the United States lack health insurance. The number is increasing because of soaring costs and job losses. 33

Oversight of Funds Faulted
The Securities and Exchange Commission failed for years to police the mutual fund industry effectively, partly because it was preoccupied by problems on Wall Street and was severely short of staff and money, current and former officials say. 1

Price of Beef Soars
The price of beef is rising and the fortunes of ranchers are improving because of many factors, including droughts and shifts in foreign trade and popular tastes. 22

Democrat Wins in Lousiana
Lt. Gov. Kathleen B. Blanco, a Democrat, became the first woman elected governor, defeating Piyush Jindal, a Republican and the son of Indian immigrants. 28

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Vision Loss Slowed by Drug
An experimental drug can slow the loss of vision caused by a form of age-related macular degeneration, researchers have found. 26

NEW YORK/REGION 35-41

High-Profile Restaurants Planned for Manhattan Mall
The Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle plans to open a cluster of dining establishments. The developers are betting that the star power of the chefs will make Columbus Circle, and the $1.7 billion Time Warner towers, the city's premier dining destination. 1

High-Tech Vision in Albany
A futuristic building of blue glass and white steel just built in Albany serves as a testament to Governor Pataki's hope that the technology industry will turn the rusting upstate economy into a hive of cutting-edge industry. 35

Neediest Cases 41

OBITUARIES 43-44

Laurence A. Tisch
The self-made New York billionaire hailed for saving CBS Inc. from a hostile takeover and then reviled for gutting it, he was 80. 43

Chess 42
Weather 45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); CRUISES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MEDICARE (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); RELIGION (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); BEEF (67%); DEATHS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); AGING (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (56%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); TURKEY (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



341 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Laurence A. Tisch, Self-Made Billionaire, Dies
The mogul, who was long celebrated for turning failing companies into profitable enterprises and later reviled for gutting the news operation of CBS, was 80. PAGE 43

Democrat Wins in Lousiana
Lt. Gov. Kathleen B. Blanco became the first woman elected governor of the state, defeating Piyush Jindal, who had close ties to the Bush administration. PAGE 28

13 Die in Gangway Collapse
A gangway collapsed as construction workers' families and friends were visiting the new liner Queen Mary 2 at a French shipyard, killing 13. PAGE 4

Gap in Health Coverage
Of the 43 million people in the United States who lack health insurance, a majority are neither poor by official standards nor unemployed. Rising costs and state cutbacks are part of the problem. PAGE 33

Beyond Blue Suede Shoes
After decades in storage at Graceland, which has never exhibited more than a fraction of Elvis Presley's 6,000-item wardrobe, his clothing has left the building in the form of a new book "Elvis Fashion: From Memphis to Vegas." SUNDAY STYLES

SPECIAL TODAY

Sophisticated Traveler's 20th
The section celebrates its 20th anniversary with an anthology of extracts and photos from past issues. SOPHISTICATED TRAVELER

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Elvis Presley Enterprises) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SHIPBUILDING (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (57%); BOBBY JINDAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



342 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 2; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 2120 words

HEADLINE: A Quick Swing Through Little Costa Rica 

BYLINE:  By Robert Stone 

 BODY:
The tourists appear to be blocking one lane of the coastal road outside Tarcoles, a busy thoroughfare that sees a lot of serious 18-wheelers coming and going from the Pacific port of Caldera. When the first burly local driver arrives with his rig and brakes, he appears a bit distressed. He looks thoughtfully at the bus and at the foreigners lined up along the highway. None of them, however, look at him. Their binoculars and cameras are fixed on the astonishing sight of six scarlet macaws in a nearby ceiba tree. Scarlet macaws in the wild are mind-bending, the total technicolor parrots, flaunting every color in the rainbow. To realize that we still share the ordinary world with the scarlet macaw, that it's not some kind of copyrighted entertainment phenomenon in Orlando, Fla., is to hope good things for the future.
 The truck driver puffs out his cheeks and shakes his head. The entranced bird-watchers, ogling and filming away, never glance away from the treetops. The driver carefully drives past the 20-passenger Toyota tourist bus. He isn't happy, but he doesn't take it out on the turistas. 
 Travelers in this hemisphere will know that this can only be Costa Rica, a land of great beauty with a commitment to democracy and reasonableness that has guided its history and its public life for 50 years and longer. This is not to say that, in Costa Rica, some hothead may not flatten you for bending his fender rounding some pothole on the Interamericana, or that ill will does not exist. But Costa Rica is a land of good intentions.
In Costa Rican society, the frictions of daily life are eased by humor and politeness. Relatively unused to foreigners before their ecotourist boom began in the 1990's, the egalitarian ticos still take visitors one on one, so to speak. 
In its history, Costa Rica shares much with its neighbors up the isthmus. It has at times been as impoverished as they, reduced to the mercy of foreign fruteros. With the spread of coffee cultivation in the mid-19th century, an overheated prosperity based on monoculture brought wealth to a handful of families whose descendants have traditionally served as a ruling class. It is the differences, however, that have distinguished Costa Rica in the region.
By now, Costa Rican exceptionalism is a near cliche, but it is based on some facts of life that one doesn't have to be a sociologist to recognize. This is the only country in Central America that abolished its army as a constitutional reform -- its fortified barracks overlooking San Jose are now the National Museum. It takes deep pride in a welfare state that labors to retain a nationwide social safety net in a country not unscathed by recent economic developments. 
Amazingly, this very small country, half the size of Kentucky, contains the greatest variety of plant species on earth as determined by the World Resources Institute, along with 615 separate species of bird and mammal. This abundance exceeds that of any country in Africa and proportionally rivals Brazil's. 
A few things seem worth saying about travel to this spectacularly beautiful place. One is that the national park system is the repository of its national treasure and that the best places to stay adjoin parks and adjoin them as inconspicuously and harmoniously as possible. The other, to the many people who normally do not consider traveling in groups with guides, is that easy access to national parks in Costa Rica is best afforded that way. Animals in the forest make a point of being hard to see. Guides are trained to see them and, unless one is a skilled spotter or bird-watcher, extremely helpful.
My wife, Janice, and I were part of a group of 11 Americans, all well traveled, touring under the auspices of Overseas Adventure Travel of Cambridge, Mass. Our 13-day itinerary took us generally north and west of the capital, San Jose, once descending to the edge of the Caribbean slope as far as the Sarapiqui River area and its Centro Neotropico.
The centro is an eco-tourism complex established by presidential decree in 1997 at the entrance to the Tirimbina Rainforest Preserve. It's a trip of a few hours from the capital over paved roads, almost 50 miles from the Caribbean itself but with the terrain that exemplifies the jungles on the east side of the Central American Great Divide.
At Sarapiqui there are gardens and one of the country's few anthropological sites. Maleko Indians left 70 burial sites here, along with some pottery and petroglyphs. There's a small, well-appointed anthropological museum near the site and a pleasant bar to reflect on it all while listening to howler monkeys and catching the rain-forest breezes. We were traveling in the late-summer rainy season, but our first few days were spared spectacular downpours.
The centro offers accommodation in large rooms within thatched buildings in the pre-Columbian village style. The Tirimbina preserve, 820 acres of rich tropical woodlands, is easily accessible across suspension bridges from the Sarapiqui complex. Trails lead through Tirimbina, and, for visitors who want a closer experience of the Sarapiqui River, guided white-water rafting. The rapids are fun, novice class, and along the river, creatures abound: iguanas, sloths and basilisks, along with enough exotic birds to provide regular new entries in a birder's logbook.
Our next destination was in the humid tropical forest of the Bosque de Chachagua, not far from the volcano at Arenal. We spent an hour in the town of Quesada, buying meat and vegetables to be cooked later at our hotel, a cluster of pleasant but basic cabins on a hillside. Maintaining the good will of a market stall merchant while attempting to purchase a food item you most imperfectly pronounce -- which in fact you have never tasted, which could be for all you know animal, vegetable or mineral, which in fact you would not recognize if a three-toed sloth hit you on the head with it -- is a reasonable test of a town's civility. For the patience and kindliness of the market people of Quesada -- may they long prosper in happiness.
From the hotel we made some novel expeditions -- novel at least for me. One such took us to the San Rafael de Chachagua elementary school, where Elizabeth, aged 11, made me dance the Zapateada, waving my checkered bandanna while she twirled prettily before me. Nor was I released until I had seen the sixth grade's garden, met its pets, listened to Elizabeth read "Mr. Gilligan's Pig" in resolute ingles. The children seemed delighted to entertain foreign visitors, and our group of Americans, mostly teachers, responded enthusiastically.
For lunch several of our band visited the home of one of the students. By this time we had discovered that food in Costa Rica is noticeably good, and the home-cooked meal (rice and beans, beef, hearts of palm, with coconut rice pudding for dessert) was even better. After lunch we spent part of the afternoon playing dominoes, in a fractured mixture of Spanish and English. If anyone had suggested a year before that I would spend a September afternoon playing dominoes in San Rafael de Chachagua -- I would have been, well, puzzled.
Also from Chachagua we traveled north to the great Cano Negro swamp, a vast expanse of wetlands that are known in Costa Rica as llanuras and are reminiscent of the Everglades. Much of this area is national park or wildlife reserve; it's scarcely inhabited and, being close against the Nicaraguan border, was further depopulated by the contra wars of the 1980's. The town of Los Chiles is a river port on the Rio Frio with a back-of-beyond feeling. Here boats arrive from Nicaragua with Nicaraguans applying for Costa Rican labor permits. (Several dozen were turned away by the border police the day we turned up.) At Los Chiles one can rent a boat, with a guide, to go farther into the area along the river. The shores are a mixture of private and public land; there are Brahman bulls placidly feeding in the Cano Negro, which happens to be one of the top spots in the country for reported jaguar and puma sightings. The river and its shores are teeming with life. The principal amphibian here is the innocently Pogo-esque caiman, which, sometimes achieving a snout-to-tail length of five feet, is too big to be funny. Birds migratory and specific are seen in great numbers; there are parrots and huge Amazonian kingfishers, hot blue and iridescent green mangrove swallows, white ibises and roseate spoonbills, wood storks -- a list would be pages long.
All four types of Costa Rican monkeys turn up here, the white-faced, the spider, the squirrel monkey and the ubiquitous howlers whose alpha males will soon be driven unhinged by mimicking tourists challenging their supremacy over the band. The Cano Negro is a dreamscape that leaves an imprint on the imagination: its waving grasses, punctuated by ceibas and the enormous conspiring sky, suggest infinity.
For a gently inclined, highly civilized country, Costa Rica yielded a disproportionate number of spectacular experiences, perhaps the most impressive of which was the eruption of Monte Arenal, one of the nine active volcanoes in the country. We arrived in the town of Fortuna to see the mountain that loomed in the range above us on the front page of the paper La Nacion. The night before, it had blown, spewing golden lava far down its northwestern slope, which was fortunately where it was expected, having been smoking and tossing molten rock down since 1968. The 5,357-foot Mount Arenal destroyed two villages and killed about 80 people during the 1968 eruption, and it continues to take a toll of the occasional rash tourist and guide who decide no visit there complete without going eye to Cyclopean eye with the great mountain. For two nights running, from the very comfortable, well-provisioned bar of the Volcano Lodge -- even from the terrace of our well-situated room -- we watched Arenal, when it was not covered with cloud, fume and glow with earth's fire, roaring like a fiend. The lodge, with air-conditioning, cable TV, pool and Jacuzzis from which to watch the volcano, was about the most upscale accommodation on our route.
The next day, we went over the Cordillera de Tilaran and Costa Rica's continental divide into the dry tropical forest of Guanacaste province, much of it actually open savannah that supports the culture of the sabanero. The classic sabanero is the tough mounted herdsman of these plains, known in the old cowboy way as independent, chivalrous and capable of iron endurance. Fancy saddles, good horses and skilled riding are admired and many towns in Guanacaste feature a rodeo, called a tope, where the main event is bull riding. We stayed at the Buena Vista Lodge and Adventure Center, an extensive former cattle ranch at the entrance to Rincon de la Vieja National Park, where accommodations in interconnected, motel-style buildings are basic but comfortable. Here in the drier forest the rainy season overtook us, but only intermittently.
Horses and thermal mud baths were available, but our favorite diversion was the canopy tour, an operation in which the tourist rides a wire on a kind of breeches buoy from elevated platform to elevated platform at a speed controlled by a hand brake, literally one's hand encased in a leather glove. High-minded and unexcitable persons are invited to inspect the scenery and the perspective on nature afforded by a view from the treetops. Most people, I think, succumb to the sheer kick of the thing, as we did, zooming through the branches at high speed. The monkeys we expected to hoot and jeer had apparently seen enough of human folly and failed to show themselves. But the landscape, from the high peaks of the Vieja volcano to the Pacific miles to the west, was breathtaking.
From the old port of Puntarenas, sleepy and louche in the rainy season, one may take a party boat across the Gulf of Nicoya to a point on the Nicoya Peninsula called Punta Coral, where a private reserve offers a beach with cabanas. Kayaks and snorkeling equipment were available, and an elderly gentleman, professionally know as Abuelo, played the marimba at lunch even for those whose beach toy was a hammock.
We finished near the Tarcoles River, staying again at the edge of a national park, in this case the Parque Nacional de Carara. The mangrove swamps of the world, it is now known, play an important role in the vitality of the world's oceans, and they give a home or shelter to an uncountable number of bird species. 
And, quite close up on the Tarcoles River, we watched a 13-foot crocodile challenged on the riverbank by a man armed with nothing more than a green towel. The crocodile went for it, and the sound of those jaws snapping shut is still with us.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The caldera of the Poas Volcano, on the way to Sarapiqui; fauna around the Tarcoles River ranging from crocodiles to butterflies; the thrill-a-minute canopy tour at Rincon de la Vieja.; Scaling a coconut palm; painted ox carts are a Costa Rican tradition; iguanas in conversation; students at the San Rafael de Chachagua school.; Two places to relax / aboard a tour boat on the Tarcoles River, and the thermal springs at Buena Vista Lodge. (Photographs by Robert Lewis for The New York Times) Maps of Costa Rica

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); ECOTOURISM (73%); BIRDING (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SPECIAL SECTIONS 

PERSON: STONE, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) COSTA RICA (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) COSTA RICA

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



343 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE; 
Who's Co-Designing What for Co-Whom?

BYLINE:  By JULIE V. IOVINE

 BODY:
THOUGH the ground zero matchup between David M. Childs and Daniel Libeskind is the highest-profile example, more than a few major collaborative architectural efforts are now under way in Manhattan. On West 53rd Street, Yoshio Taniguchi, the exacting Japanese modernist, is paired with the corporate workhorse firm Kohn Pedersen Fox on the expansion of the Museum of Modern Art. Nearing completion at Columbus Circle, the Time Warner Center by Mr. Childs contains Rafael Vinoly's performance spaces for Jazz at Lincoln Center, nestled inside like a marshmallow chick embedded within a chocolate egg. More recently, in a current competition for a new building at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Art and Science, Zaha Hadid, the London architect known for explosively fragmented forms, has matched up with Beyer Blinder Belle, a firm whose name has become synonymous with underachieving since its plans for ground zero were rejected by the public.
 As collaborations become so much a part of business as usual, architects are struggling to figure out terms of engagement that they can live with. At the Museum of Modern Art, the setup is fairly standard: famous out-of-town architect is attached to local stalwart who will see the job through. Mr. Taniguchi said by e-mail that he would have preferred being the sole architect. And Kohn Pedersen Fox does not normally see itself as second fiddle. 
 "For collaborations to work it is mandatory that one party work in support of the other and not compete," William Pedersen, a firm partner, said. "And so when we were asked to take on the assignment by MoMA, it raised questions in our mind. We are design architects, not production architects." They settled for "executive architect," a relatively new title that lends verbal dignity to a position somewhere between the starring role of design architect and the facilitators, known as the architects of record.
According to Robert Ivy, the editor in chief of Architectural Record, the title has come into currency recently and reflects a change in the way architects do business. "It is not just a euphemism," he said, adding that while "architect of record" implied a subservient role to the so-called design architect, "executive architect suggests an active, informed daily presence" that might include contributing to the design.
For The New York Times building on Eighth Avenue, Renzo Piano, based in Europe, is the design architect and Fox & Fowle of New York are calling themselves the co-architects, according to a spokesperson there. To confuse matters more, design publications usually refer to them as the executive architects, and sometimes name one, sometimes the other when referring to the architect of the building. The array of titles on the job, Mr. Ivy admitted, "is beginning to sound like a menu."
Not surprisingly, these partnerships are often awkward and fraught with tension. To Mr. Vinoly, the Manhattan architect, the prospect of having to collaborate on a single building with another ambitious architect would be, he said, akin to "asking two surgeons to share the scalpel when operating on a patient."
Mr. Vinoly, of course, was a member of the Think team, the group of architects -- ranging from Frederic Schwartz of Manhattan to Shigeru Ban of Tokyo -- whose design lost out to Mr. Libeskind's in the final stages of the ground zero competition. Even so, Mr. Vinoly said, he'd rather "go back to playing the piano" than share responsibility as executive architect.
Mr. Vinoly runs an office of 170 people. Size is part of his strategy to avoid undesirable collaborations, even on large-scale projects. While it no doubt takes many players to get anything built, Mr. Vinoly said that "working with other people is harder than anything else in the world and top-heavy collaborations are a recipe for disaster."
The real problem, he said, is that all too often developers opt for collaborations when they can't make up their minds about what they really want. He described the performance spaces for Jazz at Lincoln Center at Columbus Circle not as a collaboration but as a building nested within a building -- a situation that was forced on the project by Rudolph Giuliani, then mayor of New York, to provide the corporate behemoth with a public amenity.
Downtown, the 2001 collaboration of Prada's star architects -- Rem Koolhaas and Herzog & deMeuron -- on a boutique hotel for the impresario Ian Schrager in the East Village was an instant media sensation. But the design never went beyond the widely printed image of a tattooed obelisk. 
Jacques Herzog of the Swiss team Herzog & deMeuron said that his firm generally preferred joining forces with artists, rather than architects, so that "the client knows who is the boss." Still, he would welcome the chance to do it all over again with Mr. Koolhaas because he is on the "same level intellectually and artistically."
There is no architecture without collaboration, said Mr. Koolhaas, the Dutch architect who is a guru to an entire generation of intellectually aspiring architects, not to mention research assistants. Mr. Koolhaas, who is known to fly into imperious rages over artistic integrity, added that of course it works only if the partners involved are aesthetic equals as well. Mr. Koolhaas attributed the hotel collaboration's ultimate failure not to the economy, as was suggested at the time, nor to a rumored falling out with Mr. Schrager.
Instead, Mr. Koolhaas said, "Perhaps having the two of us together in one room was too overwhelming for the client." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%) Architecture

COMPANY: BEYER BLINDER BELLE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (57%) Julie V Iovine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



344 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Pinchas Zukerman Conducts a Revival

BYLINE:  By JAMES R. OESTREICH

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
YOU wouldn't call him modest, exactly. Few star performers are, let alone conductors. A healthy ego is virtually part of the job description.
 But over lunch here at the National Arts Center late last month, Pinchas Zukerman, renowned violinist, violist and maestro, wanted to talk not about himself, for the most part, but about education and educational technology. To hear him tell it, he wants to educate everyone -- children, audiences, young performers and composers -- and those he can't teach in person, he wants to reach in interactive settings on the Internet. 
 "It's an educational tour as much as a concert tour," he said of his current North American trek with the National Arts Center Orchestra, which ends this afternoon at Avery Fisher Hall. It has included 10 concerts in 10 cities and 70 educational events: some combination of school visits, student matinees, lectures and master classes in each city visited, all mirroring the orchestra's extensive educational program in Ottawa and throughout Canada. 
On one level, Mr. Zukerman's reserve (almost Canadian, a brash American is tempted to say) was refreshing. Yet coming from a performer long known for a certain flamboyance and for recklessly unguarded comments in interviews, it was also something of a disappointment. Mr. Zukerman's five-year tenure as the orchestra's music director seems to have tamed him a bit. Or perhaps just made him more content.
"I was happy but not comfortable," the Israeli-born Mr. Zukerman, 55, said of life before Ottawa, which included highly publicized marriages and breakups with the flutist and television personality Eugenia Zukerman and the actress Tuesday Weld. He seems to have settled comfortably into life in this modest and charming national capital (if hardly an international musical one), largely out of the American public eye.
"It's a great city to live in," he said. He is planning his third marriage, to Amanda Forsyth, the orchestra's principal cellist. And the city as a whole seems to have taken him to its heart. He has, at any rate, played a major role in a revitalization of the arts center, spearheaded by Peter Herrndorf, who became its president in 1999.
Founded in 1969 as a national showcase for the performing arts, the National Arts Center had, by the 1990's, fallen into disarray. "We became less visionary, less creative, increasingly bureaucratic," the center admitted in a mission statement ("Restoring the Vision") published in 2001. "The N.A.C. had lost its sense of purpose and its sense of mission."
The plan that emerged was to improve the center's internal culture (encouraging greater creativity, initiative and professionalism) and expand its external reach (drawing younger and more diverse audiences and establishing a truly national identity).
The orchestra has always been the center's flagship, and change there was already in the wind before the report. Christopher Deacon, who became the orchestra's managing director in 1996, hired Mr. Zukerman to replace the English conductor Trevor Pinnock in 1998.
"He has transformed the orchestra," Mr. Deacon says now. "He is heavily invested in every detail of how the institution runs. He has recruited the best players in Canada."
Still, given Mr. Zukerman's continuing presence as a soloist and guest conductor on the international circuit, one might well question the depth of his commitment here. He conducts the orchestra for at least 14 weeks a year and in special events: more or less the same amount as music directors of other major North American orchestras. The difference, Mr. Deacon said, is that unless Mr. Zukerman is performing in Europe, he is around most of the time.
"He's always in his office," Mr. Deacon added, "and you almost forget that he's technically not here. We have a substantial meeting with him four days out of five."
Whatever the specific contributions of each of the current administrators, the National Arts Center Orchestra seems to be thriving, and this at a time when many Canadian orchestras are suffering much the same economic woes as their American counterparts. True, it operates on a relatively small scale. With 50 permanent members, it is about half the size of the largest North American orchestras. It takes on 10 additional string players on a regular basis, and it has expanded to as many as 76 players for a Bruckner Seventh Symphony. It is essentially a Beethoven orchestra that can expand to cope with most Romantic composers.
"We can't live without Brahms, Schumann and Dvorak," Mr. Deacon said, "but we can live without Bruckner and Mahler, so we build up. It is more cost-effective to add string players for a week than to maintain a big orchestra."
Mr. Zukerman, for his part, said: "I don't want to be in charge of 107 people. Sixty I already can't take. It's a pain in the butt."
The players' pay, with a base salary of $53,000 a year, is also around half that of the biggest American orchestras, though comparable to that of the Toronto Symphony and the Montreal Symphony. The orchestra's annual budget is $11 million; the center's, $46 million. Neither the orchestra nor Mr. Zukerman would discuss his salary, beyond noting that he gives back $19,000 a year for educational purposes. (All figures are in American dollars.)
Yet for a conductor not out to beat the world, the working conditions are more congenial here than at the majors.
"I would go crazy with an American orchestra," said Mr. Zukerman, who was the music director of the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra from 1980 to 1987. "The choice of contemporary music is more limited here, but we do two concerts a week instead of four or five, and it's nice to have the liberty to do five rehearsals in a week. It's a little more in the English style."
Certainly, having Mr. Zukerman as conductor lessens the orchestra's demand for costly guest soloists. Unlike many instrumentalists who have turned to conducting, Mr. Zukerman has continued his career as violinist and violist at full tilt.
"There are very few programs where I just conduct," Mr. Zukerman said. "If I see that I can play something, I do."
But in February, he is conducting another violinist, Nikolaj Znaider, in the Brahms Concerto for the first time. "I look forward to it," he said. "I want to see him suffer for a change. I know what it takes to do this stuff."
Ottawa, as much as it may love Mr. Zukerman, seems determined to do its part to keep him humble. When last encountered -- at the airport, minutes before the orchestra's plane was scheduled to depart for the first stop on the tour, Monterrey, Mexico -- Mr. Zukerman was being unceremoniously detained by security personnel for close inspection of his metal violin strings.
In his haste, he evidently missed my snide suggestion that he take a cue from the early-musickers (whom he has maligned in some of those outspoken interviews). Their gut strings, after all, whatever the benefits or drawbacks in music of the distant past, are surely better suited to 21st-century travel.
This, had he heard it, would undoubtedly have drawn one of those celebrated expletives.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pinchas Zukerman's National Arts Center Orchestra appears at Lincoln Center this afternoon. (Photo by Fred Cattroll) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%) Music; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: National Arts Center Orchestra (Ottawa, Canada)

PERSON: Pinchas Zukerman; James R Oestreich

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (70%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Ottawa (Ontario)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



345 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island; 
Assisted Living, With Assist to Nature Preserve

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE

DATELINE: LYNBROOK 

 BODY:
A BLIGHTED area in this Nassau County village is being revitalized through collaborative projects involving the county, an education center and Sterling Glen Communities, a New York City-based company with more than 250 assisted living residences in the state. 
 The Lynbrook projects include the $1.1 million restoration of the 14-acre county-owned Tanglewood Preserve, which has been untended for 10 years. It will have a connecting path to the adjacent 100-unit assisted living residence, Sterling Glen of Lynbrook, which is being constructed on the site of a private summer camp that has been vacant for 10 years. 
 According to Michael D. Daly, Sterling Glen's president, the company will provide assistance with some parts of the renovation of the nature preserve, including the creation of a parking lot. "We will see how else we can support it, maybe through plantings and new benches, and we will monitor and help maintain its brook," he said. 
In addition, the nonprofit Center for Science Teaching and Learning is planning to lease and renovate existing buildings within the preserve to run educational programs in which, they say, Sterling Glen residents can participate. 
Nassau County Legislator Roger H. Corbin, a Democrat from Westbury, who was instrumental in securing the county financing for the restoration, said: "This used to be a beautiful place, and it will be again. Sterling Glen is creating an ambience for the residence," which would mix well with the preserve and where the residents could volunteer services at the science center to mentor children. "It's a win-win situation for everyone," he added.
The Tanglewood Preserve is on the east side of Ocean Avenue, a north-south road that intersects with Lakeview Road on the north and Peninsula Boulevard on the south. Sandwiched between the preserve and Ocean Avenue on the south end is the Sterling Glen property, which includes six houses, three of which had been used for the camp and three as two-family rentals.
William Kreisner, the owner of Camp Tanglewood, which thrived for 40 years before it closed in 1993, said rising taxes forced him to close the camp, although he rented five of the houses until a few years ago.
Now 75 and living in Hampton Bays, Mr. Kreisner said, "It got to the point where the taxes were too high, and since we were operating only two months of the year, it was difficult to maintain." 
Eugene Scarpato, Lynbrook's mayor, said that since the camp closed, the property has become "an eyesore and source of trouble, and devalued houses around it." He added, "Kids were getting into the property and throwing stuff in the pond at the preserve." 
STERLING GLEN, which contracted to buy the 2.2-acre camp property in 1996, closed on it in September. Demolition of the buildings began in October, and the 100,000-square-foot residence for older people who need some assistance with personal and health care is expected to be completed in 2005. 
Meanwhile, the county has begun restoring the preserve. Brian J. Schneider, a hydrogeologist with Nassau's Department of Public Works, said that the project has three components.
The first will be the cleanup of Pine Brook, which runs the length of the preserve and through a culvert at its southwestern end to eventually discharge into Hewlett Bay. Because of the many roads in the area, the brook has become a drainage channel for runoff and is carpeted with debris, Mr. Schneider said. 
The second component involves restoring the one-acre Tanglewood Pond, which had been used and maintained by the camp. It will be dredged and restocked with fish, its shoreline stabilized with plantings, and a fishing pier added. A brick pathway will be constructed around the perimeter, where there are several worn benches.
Finally, a 1,000-foot-long, meandering wood-chip nature trail with bridges over some small streams will be created.
Just beyond the pond are three buildings that will be used by the science center. A 2,500-square-foot building that was once the Lakeview Public Library will house the administration offices and classrooms, said Ray Ann Havasy, the director. A one-room building will be used for programs and community meetings, and a small cottage will be used for maintenance equipment.
The center, which will make at least $150,000 worth of renovations, will not pay rent but will give the county a percentage of the fees earned from its programs for Nassau residents, which the county is unable to provide because of the cost, she said. 
The four-year-old center is dedicated to the improvement of science, mathematics and technology education. Its local programs include science camps and research projects. It currently has its offices in a rented building in Rockville Centre. At the Tanglewood Preserve, it plans to offer courses for teachers and students, as well as to allow the Sterling Glen residents to participate in mentoring students in science, gardening projects and research programs, she said. 
Dr. Havasy and Mr. Daly have written an application for a $140,000 state education grant for community learning, which would involve the county, the Malverne School District and Sterling Glen residents. 
The development of the adjacent camp property had been delayed for seven years because of a lawsuit against the developer and the village. Some local residents who were worried about traffic and the possible eventual commercialization of the site contended that "the board was not thorough in their review of the property," said Mr. Daly. In the decision, he said, "the judge ruled that the Village Board had been diligent in its review and was appropriately empowered to make the decision." 
As part of the permit approval, it was agreed that Tanglewood Road, which borders the preserve and is used as a shortcut to Lakeview Avenue, would be closed off at its southern end near the entrance to the preserve, where the road has been used as a dumping ground. Mr. Daly has agreed to create a 20-space public parking lot in that space with a sign for the preserve. 
The area's topography plays a major role in the development of the Sterling Glen property, he said. A short distance east of Ocean Avenue, the land naturally dips 15 feet to an open field abutting the preserve's border. A concrete retaining wall had been built against the steep grade for the camp, and the six buildings were on the street level.
The wall is being removed and the new five-level residence will be constructed across the center of the grade, Mr. Daly said. One level will be partially below grade and will include an 80-seat restaurant-style dining room, a living room and outdoor patios that will overlook the preserve. The remaining four levels will be above grade. "We are working with the lay of the land," he said. 
The $14 million assisted living residence, designed by Perkins Eastman Architects, based in Manhattan, will have pitched roofs, dormers and porches. It has a staggered facade and is designed to appear like a series of attached homes in order to fit into the residential neighborhood, Mr. Daly said.
There are to be four studios covering 500 square feet, 92 one-bedroom units of 550 to 640 square feet and four 750-square-foot one-bedroom units with dens. All are to have kitchenettes.
Monthly costs, which include three meals a day, housekeeping, laundry service and activities, are $3,400 to $4,500 for one person and $850 for a second occupant. Personal care services will range from $2 a day for a reminder to take medicine to $45 a day for an escort. 
THE mayor said he supported the assisted living residence, as it would be "pretty quiet and would help economically."
The 2.5-square-mile village, which has 20,000 residents and 7,500 homes, would gain $120,000 a year in taxes, and the Malverne School District would gain $250,000, Mr. Scarpato said.
Lynbrook's operating budget is $26 million, one-third of which is generated by taxes on commercial properties downtown.
Average taxes are $8,000 a year for a house, and the median family income is $70,000. 
Kim Misiano, office manager at Becker Real Estate in Lynbrook, said houses currently on the market in the village range from $329,000 for a three-bedroom colonial on the north side to $850,000 for a four-bedroom colonial or Tudor on the south side, where properties are larger.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of Sterling Glen of Lynbrook, which is to open in 2005 on site adjacent to the Tanglewood Preserve. (Photo by Brian Quan/Q Studio) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MAYORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEVALUATION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); VOLUNTEERS (67%) Retirement Communities and Assisted Living; Retirement Communities and Assisted Living

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Sterling Glen Communities; Center for Science Teaching and Learning

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: Carole Paquette

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY); Lynbrook (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



346 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Connecticut; 
Transit Center Is Planned as a Catalyst for a Revival

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

DATELINE: NORWICH, Conn. 

 BODY:
RONALD D. ALIANO likes to cite the time during the Civil War when this city was known for its numerous millionaires. Norwich's deep-water port and the rail lines that ran along the Thames River provided transportation links that fed its commerce, mainly mills and merchant shipping, and generated great wealth.
 Mr. Aliano, president of the American Wharf Development Corporation and chairman of the Norwich Harbor Management Commission, said a new $14 million multimodal transportation center in the downtown could again make Norwich, a 27-square-mile city of 36,000 about 10 miles north of New London, a transportation hub for the region and bring back some of the commercial vitality of that earlier era. 
 Environmental work and detailed design have started for the proposed transportation center, which is to include a bus terminal, 250-car parking garage, water access and provision for an eventual rail station. It is to be on Hollyhock Island in the Yantic River, which joins with the Shetucket River to the south to form the Thames. Construction is expected to begin next year and be completed as early as 2005. 
"The intermodal transportation system is going to be critical to attract additional commerce to downtown Norwich," Mr. Aliano said. Other business officials also endorse the idea.
"I think Norwich has turned a corner, and this project will help a lot," said Cynthia G. Clegg, president of the Chamber of Commerce of Eastern Connecticut. "Interstate 395 is already a great corridor for growth, and anything we can do to improve the transportation system in the downtown can only help the commercial viability of the city." 
"Just having the transportation system opens up possibilities that we might not even consider at this point," Ms. Clegg said.
Some of the project's advocates envision a light rail system running between downtown Norwich and the two Indian casinos -- Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun -- both within a few miles of the city, and perhaps a water taxi on the Thames River between Mohegan Sun and Norwich.
The Norwich city planner, William R. Sweeney, said stronger transportation links would allow people to live in Norwich and work at the casinos and allow people who visit the casinos to go to Norwich for shopping or dining, ideally providing a steady stream of customers for new businesses.
"The issue with trying to get businesses downtown is to show them we have a market, and right now it's tough," Mr. Sweeney said. "The transportation center is one of those projects, along with some of the new housing we're getting downtown and the offices that are going up, that will combine to make it more attractive as a market for some of these businesses.
"At the very least, it's going to be a bus garage and bring some parking downtown, which are both positive developments for Norwich," Mr. Sweeney said. "But our hope is that eventually it will turn into a true multimodal facility. That's important for the long-term future of the downtown."
THE Norwich Community Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization that has developed the Norwich Business Park at the north end of the city, is developing the transportation center, with financing coming from four federal grants, a state grant and a city grant totaling more than $13 million. Another $719,000 will be needed before the project is completed, but the Development Corporation and Mr. MacDonald said they were confident that some form of state or city funds would become available.
As proposed, the transportation center would consist of a bus depot, a rail station and a two-story garage. It would stretch 288 feet between North Thames Street and Falls Avenue and straddling the west branch of the Yantic River, about 22 feet above the water.
The transportation center was originally planned for an area where there is a small bus terminal and parking area near a viaduct on the Thames River in Norwich. Michael A. MacDonald, a project executive for the Downes Group in New Britain, the construction manager, said it quickly became apparent it would not meet the requirements.
The viaduct site could accommodate no more than three buses at one time and was almost a mile from City Pier at the southern tip of Hollyhock Island, which is used in the summer by recreational boaters. It also has no rail access and limited access to Routes 2 and 12.
The city and its consultants quickly settled on a site on Hollyhock Island, which can accommodate eight buses, gives direct access to Routes 2, 12, 32 and 82, is within 720 feet of City Pier and has rail access as well.
Currently, the rail system is owned by Canadian National Railroad but operated by New England Central Railroad and used only for freight, Mr. MacDonald said. But the state Department of Transportation has identified the line, which runs between New London and Montreal, as one of the most likely to be used for passenger rail in the future.
"And when it happens, you have a rail station and platforms right on the line," Mr. MacDonald said.
The current bus terminal is just a parking lot, Mr. MacDonald said. The transportation center is to include a full-service bus depot, with an enclosed waiting area, bathrooms and concessions.
Richard E. DesRoches, general manager of Norwich Public Utilities and until recently the president of the Development Corporation, said an important aspect of the project is the 250-car parking garage, which will be a five minute walk from the downtown.
"Obviously, 250 parking spaces is not going to make or break any downtown, but as part of a transportation hub, it gives us the potential to bring a lot of people downtown," Mr. DesRoches said.
In addition, he said, the transportation center's water access could spur some other potential water-dependent uses, like a marina, on about three acres of land on Hollyhock Island that will remain developable after the transportation center is completed.
Robert S. Mulcahy, president of Landworks Collaborative Inc. of Worcester, Mass., a consultant hired to work on the city's waterfront plan, said he expected the transportation center's influence to extend much further.
"I see it as a catalyst for other land uses, particularly in terms of shared parking," Mr. Mulcahy said. While there has been considerable speculation about the transportation center's use by commuters, "this has the potential to be much more than 9-to-5, Monday to Friday. It can be an 18-to-24-hour seven-day-a-week community resource."
HE is considering uses for about three miles of waterfront property elsewhere in Norwich, primarily along the Thames River, with a total of about 80 acres of potentially developable land, and said the transportation center was likely to be central to most of it.
Mr. Aliano, who has developed an ambulance company, marina, miniature-golf course and restaurant in the harbor area, said that as a developer he agreed the transportation center could be critical to future development. He is considering developing a banquet hall on property he owns just a short walk from the planned parking garage.
But he said the city must take a long-term approach as it moves forward with the project.
"None of this can be implemented unless everyone is on the same page in terms of the zoning, redevelopment and economic development objectives," Mr. Aliano said. "We've been 47 different pistons in this community, working in 47 different engines. Everyone is off doing their own thing, and every once in a while something happens, but it's more by accident than by design. If we're going to be competitive in this new millennium, we've got to have a strategy."

GRAPHIC: Map of Connecticut highlighting planned Norwich Transportation Center. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERMODAL SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); FERRIES (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); CASINOS (65%) Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Norwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



347 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2859 words

HEADLINE: As Rents Rise, So Does Deregulation 

BYLINE:  By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
AS the New York City housing market flourished in much of the period between 1999 and 2002, the pace of apartment deregulation quickened in the most desirable neighborhoods of Manhattan and market rents rose sharply in much of the city, especially in Brooklyn and Queens, where median rents exceed $1,000 for the first time in some neighborhoods.
 These are some of the highlights of a portrait of the rental market, drawn from an analysis of the New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey carried out in the spring of 2002 and recently released for independent analysis. 
 Rent regulation has been a major force in the New York City real estate market for more than half a century, with rents of more than a million apartments still set by government regulations. That stock of rent-regulated housing is gradually eroding, however, with a loss of a minimum of 32,000 units, 3 percent, from 1999 to 2002, according to an analysis of the data.
Moreover, in the most sought-after parts of Manhattan, below 96th Streeton the East Side and 110th Street on the West Side, rents were sufficiently high at the time of the survey that nearly one in six units could be removed from regulation upon vacancy, while more than half could escape regulation after a moderate renovation by the owner. State law provides for the deregulation of any vacant apartment with a legal asking rent of $2,000 or more. 
Outside Manhattan, rent stabilization's ability to protect tenants from the vagaries of the market is also showing signs of weakening. The legal regulated rents have been rising and are often at or above the market rents for the same apartment, even though they remain significantly below the $2,000 threshold. 
In Brooklyn and Queens median market rents rose faster than regulated ones in the three years covered by the survey. But in the Bronx, regulated rents rose faster than market rents, leading to a situation in which many owners now say they can no longer collect the stabilized rent increases to which they are entitled because their tenants cannot afford to pay them.
Though many New Yorkers continue to pay a large share of their income on rent, incomes rose even faster than rents in 1999 to 2002, softening the impact of the increases. 
The survey was established to determine the apartment vacancy rate under a law that would end rent stabilization if the vacancy rate exceeded 5 percent. At the time of the survey it was 2.94 percent over all. The survey is performed by Census Bureau every three years under contract to the city's Department of Housing Preservation and is the only large survey that tries to meticulously track housing patterns that include units' rent regulation status. The results were analyzed for The New York Times by Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographics expert and sociology professor at Queens College.
The survey portrays changes in the many different housing markets in neighborhoods across the city. In the last decade the Lower East Side and Chinatown showed the largest increases in market rents in the city, cheering landlords and causing tenant advocates to raise concerns about the affordability of housing. The survey showed that median market rents in the neighborhood have more than tripled from $600 a month to $2,000 since 1993, and the median stabilized rent rose 85 percent since 1993, to $850 a month.
Outside Manhattan, median market-rate rents were highest, at $1,100, in Bayside and Little Neck, Queens, and were at $1,044 in Park Slope and Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn. Median market rents of $1,000 were found in Brooklyn Heights and Fort Green, in Brooklyn; Forest Hills and Rego Park, Flushing and Whitestone, Hillcrest and Fresh Meadows, Sunnyside and Woodside, and Astoria in Queens. Bay Ridge was next with a median rent of $975.
Of course, rents vary by location and apartment size. In Manhattan, the median three-bedroom market rate apartment had a rent of $3,400, compared with $900 for three-bedrooms in the Bronx and $1,000 in Queens. When computed across entire boroughs, market rate apartments with the same number of bedrooms had very similar rents outside Manhattan. A median two-bedroom was $800 in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Staten Island and $900 in Queens.
But the sharpest distinctions emerge not at the neighborhood level or from borough to borough but between market rate apartments and stabilized apartments within Manhattan, and especially in the most expensive and sought after parts of the borough. The Manhattan market is central to the debate over rent regulation because of the large gaps -- owners call them subsidies, tenants call them benefits -- between market rate and stabilized apartments.
"Rent regulation will end unless the laws are changed, and soon," said Michael McKee, the associate director of New York State Tenants and Neighbors, a tenant advocacy group. In Manhattan, he said, "Nine times out of 10, a vacant apartment is going to come back on the market unregulated."
But Jack Freund, the executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, a group representing owners, said he was concerned about a "bifurcated system" in which owners in Manhattan have "long-term occupied stabilized units that are well below market" while outside Manhattan, owners receive the right to increase rents that they cannot collect.

Manhattan Trends
An Elevation Of Rent Levels
Within the prime Manhattan market, the survey clearly documents the rapid run-up in unregulated rents in the waning days of the city's economic boom, a surge that has made a bargain apartment almost impossible to find. 
By 2002, three-quarters of all unregulated apartments in this market were rented or listed for more than $2,000, up from 57 percent only three years earlier. Only 1 in 10 rented for less than $1,200 a month. 
Median market rents increased from $2,034 a month to $2,400, a rise of 18 percent, and up to $2,500 in leases signed in the 15 months before the survey. Since then, asking rents for new leases in Manhattan have declined about 10 percent or more from the peak, brokers and building owners say, but is not clear whether this has led to a decline in rents for the average long-term tenant.
Based on standard real estate benchmarks, a renter of a $2,500 apartment would require an income of $100,000 a year, and, indeed, the median income of new renters of unregulated apartments was $110,000, according to the survey.
As market rents accelerated, the gaps between market and stabilized rents in these parts of Manhattan increased. The median rent on a one-bedroom market-rate apartment was $2,450 compared with $1,100 for a stabilized one, a difference of $1,350, or 55 percent. In the rest of the city the difference is far smaller, a $700 median for a market rate one-bedroom versus $661 for a stabilized apartment of the same size, a difference of $39, or 6 percent; the difference rises to $147 for a two-bedroom and $220 for a three-bedroom apartment.

Stabilized Apartments
Many Units Are Gone, But How Many?
The weakening of rent regulation, through laws signed by both Democratic and Republican governors and adopted by the City Council to raise rents on vacant apartments and deregulate those with rents above $2,000, can be seen in a number of measures. 
The first is the count of stabilized apartments. An analysis of the housing survey estimates that a minimum of 32,000 rent stabilized units were removed from regulation between the previous survey in the spring of 1999 and the current one. This figure includes all occupied rent-stabilized apartments and vacant apartments available for rent. The 59,000 apartments still covered by rent control, an older regulatory system that now protects tenants in buildings put up before 1947 who have lived in their apartments since 1971, were not included.
It has been all but impossible to come up with a method to estimate the effects of rent regulation and deregulation that owners and tenants can agree upon. Earlier this year the New York City Rent Guidelines Board put the minimum net loss of apartments through the high rent deregulation laws at 14,736 in the three years that ended in 2002. New York State Tenants and Neighbors estimated that 47,000 units were lost during roughly the same period.
The Rent Guidelines Board found that during this period the number of apartments removed from rent regulation for other reasons were largely offset by apartments added to rent stabilization through government programs. The board tabulated apartments as lost to high-rent deregulation only if they were listed in records of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which administers the rent-stabilization program.
But the Rent Guidelines Board said that its figures were a floor -- the lowest possible number -- since many building owners may not have reported the deregulation of apartments to the state, and that the true number could be higher. 
The estimate of 32,000, although much higher, is also a conservative one, because between the 1999 and 2002 surveys, the Census Bureau changed the way it counted apartments: it used a sample from the homes canvassed in the 2000 census, which added more than 100,000 addresses that were not included in the 1990 census. 
This had the effect of increasing the count of all housing units in 2002, compared with earlier reports. As a result the actual number of apartments removed from regulation is probably larger than the estimate.
The reduction in rent stabilized apartments is likely to continue as the relatively large rent increases authorized by the rent guidelines board -- 7.5 percent for a two-year lease and 4.5 percent for a one-year lease beginning last month -- work their way through the system. 
Under the current rules, vacant apartments are entitled to at least a 20 percent vacancy increase on a two-year lease (and more for low-rent apartments and those that have not turned over in at least eight years). This means that any apartment with a current rent of at least $1,667 could immediately be deregulated upon vacancy. This threshold could drop as landlords renovate apartments and pass the cost along to new tenants. An additional $32,000 in renovations would trigger the deregulation of a vacant apartment with a current rent of $1,000.
As of 2002, the survey showed that almost 31,000 apartments -- nearly one in six of the 206,000 occupied, rent-paying stabilized apartments in the prime Manhattan market -- could be immediately deregulated upon vacancy and an additional 84,000 were renting for $1,000 or more and were within easy reach of deregulation. That would leave only 90,000 stabilized apartments, less than 40 percent of the 245,000 stabilized units in Manhattan in 1993.
In the rest of the city, nearly 4,000 apartments were renting for $1,667 or more, according to the survey, and could be deregulated when the apartments next become vacant. An additional 70,000 were renting for $1,000 or more and were in striking range of deregulation, although owners are unlikely to invest money in improving an apartment if the market rents are too low to recoup their investment.
The duration of tenancy in Manhattan apartments is longer than elsewhere in the city, as tenants are unwilling to give up their protected apartments. Tenures in stabilized apartments have begun to resemble those in the older rent control program, decades after that program started to be phased out. 
In Manhattan, 45 percent of stabilized tenants have lived in their apartments since 1993, compared with 38 percent in the rest of the city.
In addition, median rents in stabilized two- and three-bedroom apartments in Manhattan are rising more slowly than in one-bedroom apartments, and are actually lower, as the bigger apartments turn over more slowly and owners are unable to collect vacancy increases. Median rents were $900 on a one-bedroom, $800 on a two-bedroom and $700 on a three-bedroom.

Outside Manhattan
Stabilized Rents Near Market Prices
Outside Manhattan, rents were up significantly between 1999 and 2002 in some neighborhoods, including some middle-class communities. Median rents in Bay Ridge were up the most, by 44 percent, to $975, followed by Astoria, up 33 percent, to $1,000. Similar trends are seen in some improving neighborhoods. In Bedford-Stuyvesant, for instance, the median rent was up 30 percent, to $650, and in North Crown Heights and Prospect Heights, up 29 percent, to $775.
But stabilized rents outside Manhattan are, on average, not far from market rents. In Queens the median stabilized rent is 89 percent of the median market rent. In Brooklyn, it is 84 percent, and in the Bronx, 83 percent. In Staten Island, according to the survey, median market rents and stabilized rents are about the same. 
In the Bronx, stabilized rents actually rose slightly faster than market rents between 1999 and 2002. David Waxenberg, a senior vice president at Norwax Associates, which owns 30 buildings and manages several hundred more, primarily in the Bronx, said that the high rents in Manhattan have brought new investment to other parts of the city, but he said renters from Manhattan have not yet crossed the river to the Bronx in search of lower rents.
The State's Division of Housing and Community Renewal reported that in 2002, owners filed registration forms showing that about 81,000 regulated apartments in the city, an increase of 15 percent from the year before, were renting for less than the maximum legal allowed rent. But owners say these counts may far understate the issue. 
Arnold Goldstein, chairman of Samson Management, which owns thousands of apartments in Manhattan and surrounding boroughs, said that in the Bronx, where, for example, a three and a half room apartment on Pelham Parkway goes for $950, about 20 percent of his tenants pay rents below the maximum allowed under rent regulation.
When he installs a new room or waterproofs a building exterior, the cost of these improvements are passed along to the stabilized tenants with rents below market, but "those at market don't get charged." On the other hand, he said, in Manhattan, market conditions dictated that he reduce one tenant's rent from $4,000 to $3,000 in a large Park Avenue South apartment after the market turned.
Tenant advocates say the problem outside Manhattan is that stabilized rents have risen too high, through the 20 percent vacancy increases allowed by the state for a two-year lease. They fear that the rising stabilized rents will serve in the long run to undermine public support for rent stabilization.
Janet Henne, president of the tenants association at the Marseille and the Brussels, two large apartment buildings on 67th Avenue in Rego Park, said her association believes that many three-bedroom apartments in the complex have reached the legal $2,000 threshold and are no longer protected, while other apartments that had once been occupied by a single tenant for years, are now turning over frequently, increasing the legal rents. 
But Edward Cortese, senior vice president for marketing at the Lefrak Organization, which owns the buildings, said the company has at most two or three apartments renting for more than $2,000 in Brooklyn and Queens. Despite the tenant fears, he said, "The deregulation issue seems to be focused more in Manhattan than the outer boroughs."
The survey also documents a scarcity of low-rent stabilized apartments. The number of apartments with rents below $700 -- which would, in theory, be affordable to a household with an income of $28,000 -- fell by about 25 percent from 1999 to 2002; for the first time they make up less than half of the stabilized apartment stock. They are about a third of all apartments in Manhattan, Queens and Staten Island, half in Brooklyn and two-thirds in the Bronx.
During this period, the rising rents -- at least for stabilized tenants -- were cushioned by rising incomes. The percentage of stabilized tenants paying more than half their incomes -- a standard measure of distressingly high housing costs -- declined, from 29 percent to 27 percent, while the percentage of market tenants paying more than half their income increased slightly.
In the prime Manhattan market, 20 percent of stabilized tenants paid more than half their income for rent, compared with 23 percent in Queens and 28 percent in Brooklyn. In the Bronx, where rents are lowest, 34 percent pay at least half their income in rent.
Michael H. Schill, a law professor at New York University and the director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, said that in the city's booming economy in the late 1990's incomes were rising faster than rents, especially among low-income people who were able to find jobs. 
Even so, Mr. Schill, who is using the survey to prepare a report on housing in New York, said the high proportion of people, especially low income people outside Manhattan, paying 50 percent of their income for rent was a serious cause of concern. That may have only worsened as the economy slumped since the survey data was collected.
"I would predict that the economic decline will make affordability problems more severe, because affordability improved with the booming economy," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chart/Map: "Median Rents, by Borough"Median rents for different size apartments in New York City. Medians were calculated for both rent-stabilized and market-rate apartments as of early 2002. The sample size was insufficient to calculate medians for regulated apartments in Staten Island, and for studios in any borough but Manhattan. Manhattan Size: STUDIOStabilized: $850Market: $1,750 Size: 1 BEDROOMStabilized: $900Market: $2,210 Size: 2 BEDROOMSStabilized: $800Market: $2,300 Size: 3 OR MOREStabilized: $700Market: $3,400 Staten Island Size: 1 BEDROOMMarket: $675 Size: 2 BEDROOMSMarket: $800 Size: 3 OR MOREMarket: $900 Brooklyn Size: 1 BEDROOMStabilized: $658Market: $700 Size: 2 BEDROOMSStabilized: $700Market: $800 Size: 3 OR MOREStabilized: $705Market: $925 Bronx Size: 1 BEDROOMStabilized: $600Market: $650 Size: 2 BEDROOMSStabilized: $670Market: $800 Size: 3 OR MOREStabilized: $755Market: $900 Queens Size: 1 BEDROOMStabilized: $746Market: $775 Size: 2 BEDROOMSStabilized: $826Market: $900 Size: 3 OR MOREStabilized: $919Market: $1,000 (Source by Analysis of Census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 1) Map of New York City highlighting above mentioned boroughs. (pg. 1) Chart: "Where Market-Rate Rents Increased Most Sharply"Neighborhoods in which median rents for market-rate apartments increased most rapidly on a percentage basis. Median rents shown are for all apartments, from studios to three-bedrooms and more. COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 10NEIGHBORHOODS: Bay RidgeMEDIAN RENT, 2002: $ 975PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 44% COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Queens 1NEIGHBORHOODS: AstoriaMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 1,000PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 33 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Queens 2NEIGHBORHOODS: Sunnyside, WoodsideMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 1,000PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 33 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 6NEIGHBORHOODS: Park Slope, Carroll GardensMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 1,044PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 32 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 3NEIGHBORHOODS: Bedford-StuyvesantMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 650PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 30 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Queens 11NEIGHBORHOODS: Bayside, Little NeckMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 1,100PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 29 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 8NEIGHBORHOODS: North Crown Hts., Prospect Hts.MEDIAN RENT, 2002: 775PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 29 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Staten Island 1NEIGHBORHOODS: North ShoreMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 800PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 28 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Manhattan 7NEIGHBORHOODS: Upper West SideMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 2,500PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 25 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 14NEIGHBORHOODS: FlatbushMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 850PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 24 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 1NEIGHBORHOODS: Williamsburg, GreenpointMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 825PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 22 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Queens 14NEIGHBORHOODS: RockawaysMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 850PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 21 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Manhattan 4, 5NEIGHBORHOODS: Chelsea, Clinton, MidtownMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 2,475PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 21 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Manhattan 1, 2NEIGHBORHOODS: Greenwich Vil., Financial Dist.MEDIAN RENT, 2002: 2,300PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 21 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 4NEIGHBORHOODS: BushwickMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 725PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 21 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 15NEIGHBORHOODS: Sheepshead Bay, GravesendMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 869PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 20 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Queens 5NEIGHBORHOODS: Middle Village, RidgewoodMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 800PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 19 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Brooklyn 7NEIGHBORHOODS: Sunset ParkMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 800PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 18 COMMUNITY BOARD NUMBER: Queens 7NEIGHBORHOODS: Flushing, WhitestoneMEDIAN RENT, 2002: 1,000PERCENTAGE CHANGE, 1999-2002: 18 (Source by Analysis of Census Bureau figures by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 4) Map of New York City highlighting above mentioned neighborhoods. (pg. 4) Chart: "A Quickening Pace of Deregulation"Sampling in the most recent triennial New York City housing survey found a sharper decline in number of rent regulated apartments than the preceding study had found. 1996RENT STABILIZED UNITS: 1,052,300CHANGE IN UNITS FROM PREVIOUS SURVEY: --MARKET RATE UNITS: 575,666 1999RENT STABILIZED UNITS: 1,046,377CHANGE IN UNITS FROM PREVIOUS SURVEY: -5,923MARKET RATE UNITS: 602,861 (+27,195) 2002RENT STABILIZED UNITS: 1,013,954CHANGE IN UNITS FROM PREVIOUS SURVEY: -32,423MARKET RATE UNITS: 664,978 (+62,117) Note: Because of a change in the way the survey was conducted in 2002, figures from the 1990's are not strictly comparable, as the older figures tend to understate the actual counts of housing units. (Source by Census Bureau, New York Housing and Vacancy Survey)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (92%); RENT CONTROL (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CENSUS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing; Rent Control and Stabilization; Law and Legislation ; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



348 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
The 32 Steps

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SEVEN years ago, Ernie Fellenbaum noticed a town house for sale on West 103rd Street, down the street from the apartment where he lived with his wife and stepdaughter. The building was dilapidated and selling for the princely sum of $565,000. "It seemed like an awful lot of money," Mr. Fellenbaum recalled the other day, and he and his wife decided to pass.
 Mr. Fellenbaum is still in the market for a town house, and although his wealth hasn't increased appreciably, $565,000 strikes him as peanuts. The 103rd Street building eventually sold for more than the asking price, leaving Mr. Fellenbaum feeling as if he had just lost a hand of poker, and determined to do better the next time. 
 Three years ago, opportunity knocked again. Through Dexter Guerrieri, an Upper West Side town house broker, Mr. Fellenbaum toured a brownstone at 106th Street and Manhattan Avenue, in a neighborhood recovering from decades of neglect. The asking price was under $1 million. But to call it a dwelling was something of an exaggeration. "I looked up four floors, I saw the sky, and watched the pigeons almost literally fly into the place," he said. He passed. He lived to regret that one too.
 And so last Wednesday Mr. Fellenbaum was at Dexter Guerrieri's stylishly appointed suite at 68th Street and Broadway, where his firm, Vandenberg Inc., has its office, for an event billed as a "Town House Buyer's Seminar." Scanning the listings, Mr. Fellenbaum winced behind his tortoise-shell glasses as he noticed that a similar Manhattan Avenue building (renovated) was on sale for $1.8 million.
 Mr. Fellenbaum does not consider himself a rich man; pushing 50, he is considering a town house as a retirement investment. He designs ads for U.S. News and World Report, including those pesky blow-in cards that urge readers to renew their subscriptions. The other dozen people who attended the seminar, enticed by the promise of mastering "the 32 steps" needed to buy a town house, didn't look rich either.
 Nor were they there for the free snacks; the bottled water and fat strawberries remained politely untouched until the audience left, upon which the real estate agents wolfed them down. Rather, they were earnest, serious, plodding. A man in a gray suit wanted to know whether 11 times the rent roll was a rule of thumb for purchase price. The woman in the antique-lace blouse agonized: "I'm just trying to figure out how much we can afford on a house. I don't understand all the cash-flow implications."
 These people were living proof of the topsy-turvy economics of New York City, where a person can be looking at houses selling for $1.5 million to $4 million and, with some justification, think he is not rich.
 The truly rich, Mr. Fellenbaum demurred, are people like David Martinez, the London financier who paid $45 million for a duplex in the AOL Time Warner building.
 After years of searching for the perfect house, Mr. Fellenbaum could have written the headline last month that jeered: "What Can a Million Buy in Manhattan? Something Average." Or, as Mr. Fellenbaum put it, "The people who are super-affluent-wealthy, they don't need this meeting." Most prospective buyers were hoping to leverage the price of a town house with rental income. They sat up as Mr. Guerrieri discussed buildings that had been painlessly -- or so he said -- emptied of low-paying renters.
 Patience Sundaresan, looking cuddly in a flowered blouse and carnation pink lipstick, wondered whether she could stomach evictions. Ms. Sundaresan, a painter and lawyer now living on West 74th Street, is looking for a house and studio to share with her husband, a surgeon; their daughter; her mother; and a tenant or two. "I think there are moral issues as far as people who are professional building-emptiers," she said. "I think maybe it's a little different for someone who truly wants to make it a home for their family."
 Scarcity drives up prices, and desire. There are only 1,500 town houses on the West Side between 59th and 110th Streets, Mr. Guerrieri said. Had anyone considered Harlem or the Bronx? Or the suburbs? "I will never live in the suburbs," Ms. Sundaresan replied flatly. Her comfort zone was a four-block radius of her present apartment.
 She knew she was obsessed when she realized that she regarded "Rosemary's Baby," with its lovely Dakota settings, as a movie about real estate rather than about the occult.
 A little black magic might have been nice at the seminar. "You advertised 32 steps," one man whined. "But you only gave 18." Well, Mr. Guerrieri replied sheepishly, he had condensed things. Mr. Fellenbaum also felt let down. "The 32 steps is what kind of drew me there," he said. But he was not defeated. "There's one property that's been boarded up for years," he said brightly. "I'm not going to tell you where it is. The fantasy, or the hope, is that something like that will come along and we'll jump on it."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BOTTLED WATER (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); POKER (69%) Housing

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis; Ernie Fellenbaum; Dexter Guerrieri

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



349 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER EAST SIDE; 
Madison Ave. Finds Itself in Elegance Deficit As the Bentleys Purr Smoothly Away

BYLINE:  By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
Luis Cepeda, a clerk at Dino Baldini at 49th Street and Madison Avenue, sells $3,000 sport jackets and $850 shoes. So when the Bentley dealership across the street moved out, it didn't exactly put a dent in his business. Still, Mr. Cepeda feels that something has been missing lately, if only a touch of spectacle. 
 "An upscale car dealership always attracts people," Mr. Cepeda said the other day, looking across the street at the empty white showroom that was home to Bentley Manhattan. 
 Manhattan Motorcars, which owns the dealership, vacated the space in September, moving the cars into its other showroom, on 11th Avenue. When the $300,000 sedans moved on, Mr. Cepeda said, so did the tourists and gawkers who used to point and dream.
 Still, merchants nearby say they never got much of a sales boost from having such an upscale neighbor. And Mahmoud Elsamahi, who operates a coffee cart on the other side of 49th Street, wondered about the economics of the high-end business. 
 "Thefunny thing that I noticed during two years here is, I didn't see people buying," he mused. "I just saw people with camcorders, or taking a snapshot and leaving."
 Steven Schneir, a Bentley salesman who now works at the 11th Avenue dealership, explained the move by saying the location just wasn't a good fit. "We were the only car dealer ever in the history of Madison Avenue," Mr. Schneir said. "There were never any before us, and I wouldn't think there will be any after."
 The business is doubling its space on the West Side, he added, where neighbors include a warehouse and a Con Edison facility, and four lanes of traffic whiz by the front door. 
 Back on Madison, the old showroom's owner is still seeking a new tenant, and the walls -- white in the main room and racing green in the back -- are bare. But even some people outside the Bentley price range are mourning the old place.
 "I miss it," said Alvin Dunston during a lunch break from his job servicing coffee machines in an office building above the former showroom. "Because you come by, you look at the cars, they're like fantasy cars. You think, 'Ooh, if I had money, I could get one."' 
 "You don't see them every day," he added. "It was fun for me. I'm not around 11th or 12th too often." JAKE MOONEY

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fancy wheels have rolled west, to 11th Avenue. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); RELOCATIONS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%) Automobiles; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Manhattan Motorcars (Co)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Jake Mooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



350 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Access Fees for Doctors? Some Test the Waters

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
YOU probably already pay a monthly fee for access to cable TV and cellphone service. Someday soon, you may also have to come up with $20 to $30 a month for access to your doctor's services, on top of any co-payments, premiums and deductibles you're already paying for health insurance.
 It may sound far-fetched, but it has already happened in at least three states -- Washington, Ohio and Illinois -- and health experts say it's probably starting in other places as well. And it's not the health plans or employers that are responsible. It's the doctors themselves. 
 Jim Simpkins said he received a letter in January from his doctor at the Polyclinic in Seattle, a multiple-specialty practice with 97 physicians, notifying him that he would have to start paying a $25 monthly retainer fee if he wanted to continue as a patient. The extra money, the letter said, would permit his doctor, Bradley Harris, to limit the size of his practice, allowing for same-day (and longer) appointments. In addition, the letter promised health seminars, a newsletter and eventual e-mail access to the doctor. 
 Mr. Simpkins, 47, who retired from Microsoft several years ago as a group program manager, said he was already paying $313 a month for coverage under an individual preferred provider organization plan from Blue Cross. He said that he was "not thrilled" about the extra charge and that he didn't think the new services would amount to much. But he decided to pay it anyway because he really liked his doctor and didn't want to lose him. 
 In August, he said he received another letter from Dr. Harris, this one informing him that the office of the Washington State insurance commissioner was investigating the legality of the access fees. The letter asked him to contact the commissioner's office and register his support for the "new model" of more personalized care. 
 The commissioner's office confirmed that after consumer complaints, it was in talks with the Polyclinic and other clinics in the area about how the fees were structured. And the office is in discussions with insurers over whether mandatory fees for access to covered care are allowed under various contracts that physicians have with insurers, or under state law. The Illinois Department of Insurance, meanwhile, is responding to complaints by discussing contractual issues with insurers. 
 But Mr. Simpkins decided that he'd had enough. "The letter was talking about how wonderful all these creative arrangements were," Mr. Simpkins said. "I didn't think it was so wonderful. I think it's perfectly appropriate that they're investigating this." He said he left Dr. Harris's practice that month. Dr. Harris did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
 There is no question that doctors are feeling squeezed financially. The cost of running a multiple-specialty practice grew by 7.5 percent in 2002, while total medical revenue increased just 5.7 percent, according to a report in October by the Medical Group Management Association, a professional group based in Englewood, Colo., for medical practice managers. The cost of medical malpractice liability insurance continues to skyrocket, in some states more than doubling in 2003, according to a survey this year by Medical Liability Monitor, an independent reporting service in Chicago that tracks medical liability trends. And last month, the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that the physician reimbursement fee schedule would drop 4.5 percent in 2004. 
 But many health care experts say it's wrong to charge managed-care patients extra for access to their doctors. 
 Doctors who join health insurers' networks sign contracts agreeing to provide certain medical services for a fixed fee. In general, patients' financial responsibility for covered medical services is limited to the co-payment and deductible, the amounts of which are spelled out in the contract, said Dr. William F. Jessee, chief executive of the Medical Group Management Association.
 Doctors who accept Medicare patients follow similar rules. "The whole idea is that the insurer contracts with the physician in order to ensure that the patient won't be charged over and above what the insurer's agreed to," Dr. Jessee said.
 Scott Forslund, a spokesman for Premera Blue Cross, one of the insurers that contracts with doctors at the Polyclinic, said, "Physicians in our network have every right to offer value-added services so long as they're optional." 
LLOYD A. DAVID, the chief executive of the Polyclinic, says the four primary-care doctors who are charging the access fee limit the size of their practice so they can provide more personalized service. 
 "Your availability is enhanced, your ability to return a phone call yourself instead of having a nurse answer it," he said. He also noted that there were extra benefits like a newsletter, health seminars and e-mail access to doctors. 
 Arthur L. Caplan, chairman of the Department of Medical Ethics at the University of Pennsylvania, questioned access fees in general. "Paying a monthly fee for what ought to be part of what your regular bill covers is morally dubious," he said. "It looks like extortion." 
 Eric Salathe, 38, a research scientist at the University of Washington, said he had been a patient of Dr. Jon P. Younger at the Polyclinic for about three years when he received a letter in 2002 informing him of a $20 monthly charge to continue as his patient. Mr. Salathe said he didn't think a newsletter and extra time with Dr. Younger justified the added expense, so he switched doctors. "It wasn't going to be $240 worth of value," he said, adding that his new physician "is just as good and doesn't charge me extra." 
 Dr. Younger said 300 of the 850 patients who were notified of the fee had left his practice. "Most of them were sort of marginally my patients anyway, young people who would see me once every two or three years," he said.
 Some patients say that paying the extra money is worth it. "Most doctors, it's one-two-three, they want to get rid of you," said Bernard Kessler, another of Dr. Younger's patients. Mr. Kessler, 86, had just finished a half-hour physical with the doctor. "This doctor gives you as much time as you need." 
 Dr. Michael O. Fleming, a family physician in Shreveport, La., who is president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, said he sympathized with his fellow doctors who are feeling squeezed. But he said patients shouldn't have to pay extra for personal attention or help in managing their illnesses. 
 "These are the things that should be covered within the relationship we already have with our patients," Dr. Fleming said. 
 The practice of medicine has changed drastically in recent years, and medical advances have led to more complicated treatments. Managing the care of patients who may be on several medications at once, for example, often eats up more clinical and administrative time, too much of it not reimbursed under managed-care contracts. 
 "The reimbursement system is starting to crumble," said Dr. John Goodson, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School who has written extensively about care management issues. "The reimbursement structure needs to be rethought." 
 One way would be to increase the amount that physicians are reimbursed for work that doesn't involve direct patient contact. 
 Mike Kreidler, the Washington State insurance commissioner, says he believes that there are ways in which the added fees could be structured so that they would not conflict with provider contracts. They could be voluntary, for example, or the doctors who charge them could remove themselves from the networks, he said.
 Still, Mr. Kreidler said, "We're concerned that if a significant number of physicians start charging these fees, what happens to those individuals who can't afford to pay more?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (71%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Doctors ; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Michelle Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



351 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: S. Basu Mullick; 
Neuberger Berman Partners Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
INDUSTRY slowdowns, a weak economy or even bad weather can easily push down the share prices of solid companies, said S. Basu Mullick, manager of the $1.6 billion Neuberger Berman Partners fund. The important question for an investor, he said, is whether those price declines are likely to last long.
 "These are quality companies that have dropped in price," he said. "We want to figure out which ones are tennis balls and which ones are eggs." 
 The fund lost 0.7 percent of its value, annualized, for the three years through Thursday, ranking among the top 6 percent of large blend funds, which own a mix of growth and value stocks. That category lost 6.6 percent, on average, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.4 percent, according to Morningstar Inc.
 The fund gained 31.6 percent in the last 12 months, compared with 20.9 percent for its group and 22.1 percent for the S.&P. 500.
 Mr. Mullick, 45, is a vice president of Neuberger Berman Management, the fund's adviser. The adviser is a unit of Neuberger Berman Inc., which was acquired by Lehman Brothers on Oct. 31.
 Mr. Mullick finds the fund's 70 to 80 stocks among American companies with market capitalizations of at least $3 billion. He looks for growing businesses that sell for what he calls a "value price" -- a bargain based on the company's price-to-earnings ratio relative to that of the S.&P. 500. Over all, the portfolio companies trade for 15 times projected earnings for 2004, versus 17.8 for the S.&P. He also screens for companies with high profit margins and low debt.
 Mr. Mullick closely reviews the 100 to 200 companies found by his screens. Through talking with company management, investment analysts, consultants, lawyers and regulators, he aims to figure out the source of a company's share price decline and when it might reverse.
 In August, Mr. Mullick bought shares of Countrywide Financial, based in Calabasas, Calif. He paid $74.03, on average, for the position; the shares are now at $100.00. 
 Countrywide, a mortgage finance company, has had annual earnings growth averaging 22 percent during the last 20 years, Mr. Mullick said. Despite that, he said, the company's shares sell for just six times projected consensus earnings estimates of $17.50 a share for 2004,because the company has been viewed as cyclical, and its business is widely expected to be hurt if interest rates rise.
 The company has growing businesses in securities trading, banking and property and casualty insurance. "Investors have not yet appreciated the company's strong gain in market share and their diversification strategy," he said, "which should result in a far more resilient earnings picture in 2004 versus the expectation of an earnings collapse precipitated by sharp declines in mortgage banking."
 MR. MULLICK recently added shares of Viacom, the entertainment giant whose holdings include CBS and MTV. He started the position in March 2001, paying $42.06, on average. The shares now trade at $37.88. 
 The performance has lagged this year, he said, because of lackluster growth in local advertising as well as rising expenses. As a result, he said, shares trade for just 11.5 times 2004 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a low level by historical standards. But Viacom should profit next year, he said, from advertising related to the elections and from an overall increase in television viewing related to the Olympics, even though the events themselves will be on NBC, which is owned by General Electric. "This time around," he added, "Viacom has set modest revenue and cash-flow goals, and I suspect they will beat them." 
 Another holding is AmeriSource-Bergen, a large pharmaceutical distributor in Chesterbrook, Pa. Mr. Mullick expects the company to benefit from increases in mail-order prescription drugs and the savings created by consolidating its drug distribution centers. The company's generic drug business is expanding, he added. 
 Shares trade at 12 times estimated 2003 earnings, versus a 10-year median multiple of 18, he said, and "the business is still growing, perhaps slowly, but it is still a good value at this price."
 The fund began buying shares in September, paying $54.62, on average. They now trade at $64.19.

GRAPHIC: Photo: S. Basu Mullick likes to invest in stocks of American companies with market capitalizations of at least $3 billion that have a "value price." (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart: "Neuberger Berman Partners" Category: Large blendNet assets: $1.6 billionInception: January 1975Manager: S. Basu Mullick since Dec. 1998Minimum purchase: $1,000Portfolio turnover: 53%3-year annualized return through Thursday: -0.7%Category average: -6.6% Sector breakdownFinancials: 26%Consumer discretionary: 21%Health care: 17%Industrials: 13%Information technology: 10%Other: 13% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.87% (Sources by Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); BONDS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MARKET SHARE (58%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (92%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEUBERGER BERMAN PARTNERS FUND ; Neuberger Berman Inc

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: MULLICK, S. BASU ; Carole Gould; S Basu Mullick

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



352 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 he New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Sugar And Spice, And Sour Dads

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
CHILD rearing, divorce and sexism are each, on their own, topics that can fill a long day's worth of conversation. Throw them together, and you have fodder for weeks of debate.
 Last month in this section, I described a new study that found higher divorce rates among families with girls than those with boys. Looking at United States Census data, the study's authors -- Gordon B. Dahl, an economist at the University of Rochester, and Enrico Moretti, an economist at the University of California at Los Angeles -- found that the gap had existed since at least the 1940's and probably for much longer. 
 The differences are not enormous. About 20 percent of mothers with an only child who is a girl are divorced, for example, compared with 19 percent of those with a single boy. But the gap is broad enough, found in every region and among every family size, racial group and education level, that it seems undeniable. It means that girls are bearing an undue share of the economic and psychological costs of divorce.
 The article about the study elicited a torrent of responses, and some excellent questions. So let's return to the topic:
 Where's the proof that the divorce gap is a result of discrimination against girls?
 There isn't any in Mr. Dahl and Mr. Moretti's paper, a fact that they acknowledge. Thinking that boys would suffer greatly from the absence of a father, some parents might work harder to rescue a marriage when a boy is in the home. Or perhaps girls just give their parents more grief than boys, as one anonymous father announced on my voice mail.
 But it turns out that the Gallup Poll offers something resembling a smoking gun. When asked whether they would prefer a boy or a girl if they could have only one child, 38 percent of Americans chose a boy, and 28 percent picked a girl, according to a poll done this summer. Thirty-four percent had no preference or no opinion. 
 Since Gallup first asked a similar question in 1941, the numbers have hardly budged.
 Blame the Mini-Me phenomenon. Women show a slight preference for girls (36 percent versus 32 percent), but men overwhelmingly favor smaller versions of themselves (45 percent versus 19 percent). It isn't hard to imagine how the disappointment of some fathers over having girls could cause them to be less involved with their families, lowering the chances that the family stays together. 
 What about families with both a boy and a girl?
 Fertility records show that most parents with more than one child want at least one of each sex. Until they succeed, many continue to have children.
 That finding seems to suggest that parents with both a boy and a girl may be happier and less likely to split up. But that is not the case. Mr. Dahl and Mr. Moretti report that families with children of both sexes divorce less often than those with only girls -- but more often than those with only boys. Put simply, the more girls a family has, the more likely a divorce will occur.
 So what causes this bias toward boys?
 There are not clear answers, but there are some plausible ones. 
 Some of it is probably circular. Sexism makes life harder for girls and women in all kinds of ways, be it the horror of domestic violence or the quiet discrimination of lower wages for the same work. Parents trying to help their daughters cope with these obstacles almost certainly face a harder task than those raising members of the favored sex.
 BUT big societal forces should get only part of the blame. 
 The inability of some fathers -- though not all, of course -- to get as excited about a baby girl as they do about a baby boy almost certainly plays a role in creating the divorce gap. 
 "There's been a lot of attention paid to increasing fathers' involvement in families," said Shelly J. Lundberg, an economics professor at the University of Washington at Seattle who studies families. "Perhaps it would be useful to insert some understanding that fathers' involvement with daughters deserves a bit of focus."
 The professor has a point. But here's a simpler way to think about it: Do we dads really need a bunch of economic studies to point out that we should not discriminate against our own children?

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Do You Want a Boy or a Girl?"A survey of Americans conducted since the 1940's shows a consistent favoring of boys among those who had a preference. Graph tracks percentage of Americans's preference in their child's sex since 1941. (Source by Gallup Poll)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (79%); WOMEN (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (62%); CENSUS (57%) Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Women; Men; Discrimination; Public Opinion; Divorce, Separations and Annulments

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%) Gallup Organization

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



353 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Falling Wages and Lost Jobs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Beneath the Smile, a Churning Anxiety" (Economic View, Nov. 2) described the drop in pay experienced by millions of laid-off Americans who eventually find new jobs. 
The column made the case that not even education protects these workers from falling wages. 
 The pattern is seen in the flight of American jobs to countries with low labor costs. Manufacturing workers are already losing high-paying jobs this way and end up taking positions that pay less.
 If the pattern continues, the results may be an enormous decline in wages for manufacturing and white-collar workers alike. 
 Chances are that chief executives, however, will retain their high pay: the cheaper labor here and abroad will increase profits and, in the recent past, higher profits have usually not translated into higher wages for workers. 
 Yes, education once raised workers' wages. Even education, however, can't fight globalization.

Diane Forve
Los Angeles, Nov. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (87%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Wages and Salaries; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

PERSON: Diane Forve

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



354 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Prescriptions Filled; 
If Americans Want to Pay Less for Drugs, They Will

BYLINE:  By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
AMERICANS, who pay the highest drug prices in the world, are clamoring for access to cheap imports of prescription drugs. 
 The governors of Illinois, Minnesota, Iowa and Wisconsin -- Democrats and Republicans alike -- want their constituents to be able to buy drugs from Canada. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg says he would like the same option for New York City employees and hospitals. Municipal workers in Springfield, Mass., already have that right, though federal regulators threaten to stop them. 
Though American drug companies have spent millions to discourage Congress from legalizing the import of cheap prescription drugs -- and succeeded last week in keeping the ban on imports in a proposed bill -- even some industry executives privately acknowledge that they are fighting an uphill battle. With public pressure growing, drugs, the only legal products specifically prohibited from being imported, will ultimately join automobiles, software and all the other products that trade across borders. 
"Eventually we're going to get rolled on this," said a top industry executive on condition of anonymity. 
A House provision allowing the eventual import of prescription drugs was included in a bill creating a Medicare drug benefit. But last week in the Senate-House negotiations on the final legislation, the proposal was not included. 
Supporters of the idea say the battle is far from over. Some polls show that Americans are even more enthusiastic about measures to reduce the cost of prescription drugs than they are about a Medicare drug benefit, according to Robert Leitman, a pollster at Harris Interactive. Even the elderly -- who would gain most from a Medicare drug benefit -- prefer drug price controls to the Medicare benefit, by 52 percent to 35 percent, Mr. Leitman said.
American drug companies say that domestic prices are higher to cover the high cost of developing new drugs, a process that can take years. Cutting prices, they say, will reduce research, producing fewer new drug breakthroughs. 
The demand for cheaper prescription drugs has grown for many reasons. The spread of Internet sites advertising the lower prices has allowed Americans to see just how much more they are paying than their neighbors -- though it is illegal to import medicine. At the same time, drug prices in the United States continue to climb, and consumers pay an increasing share of these costs out of their pockets. 
Drug prices in Europe and Canada are far lower because they have national health care, and the governments negotiate deep discounts. The American manufacturers submit to these discounts because pills are cheap to make, so even sales at significantly reduced prices are profitable. Drug company scientists routinely introduce medicines similar to drugs already being marketed. European bureaucrats tell drug company executives that if they don't cut their prices, the government will go to a competitor. 
The companies say that even if they still make a profit, the discounts squeeze the amount of money available for research. That is what American consumers are supporting when they pay the higher costs. 
In America, they pay high prices because nobody is negotiating on their behalf on a national scale, and patients might not know that the drug their doctor prescribed could be replaced by an equivalent, often cheaper, medicine in some cases. 
Tight-fisted payers say there are few good medical reasons to buy all drugs within a class at list price, so they drive hard bargains. When governments are doing the bargaining, it is called price controls. 
The drug industry deplores price controls and says doctors should be able to prescribe whatever drug they deem appropriate because patients can react differently even to similar drugs. 
But consumer advocates say that doctors can be as susceptible to expensive marketing efforts by pharmaceutical companies as consumers are, raising costs for the entire medical system. 
GlaxoSmithKline, for example, recently introduced a new version of its big-selling antidepressant, Paxil, that the company calls Paxil CR. Doctors now regularly prescribe Paxil CR, and GlaxoSmithKline says it is "better tolerated" than Paxil. In fact, say researchers who make generic drugs, there is little difference between Paxil and Paxil CR. Generic versions of Paxil have recently been introduced, but the success of Paxil CR has meant that thousands of patients haven't taken advantage of the savings. They may not even be aware of the cheaper alternatives.
This is also the case with Nexium, a heartburn drug that replaced Prilosec. Thomas A. Scully, the administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, told doctors at a medical conference earlier this year that you "should be embarrassed if you prescribe Nexium" because it increases costs without any medical benefit. Thousands of doctors prescribe it nonetheless. 
A variety of drugs introduced by major pharmaceutical companies in recent years are like Nexium and Paxil CR. Drug imports could drastically cut the prices of these expensive drugs and the incentives for making them. 
At the same time, the imports will have no effect on the prices of many biotechnology drugs developed by companies that have discovered life-saving cures for hard-to-treat illnesses. The prices for these breakthrough medications are as high or higher in Europe as they are in the United States because there are no ready alternatives. Gleevec, a miracle cure developed by Novartis for some types of leukemia, is one such drug. 
If cheap imports reduce industry profits and mean less money for research, it could be that some Gleevecs of the future won't emerge as rapidly, though that won't be known for years because research takes so long to bear fruit. 
"Drug import legislation is politically perfect," said Rebecca Henderson, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies corporate research and who often consults for drug makers, pointing out the tendency of politicians to consider short-term gain rather than long-term consequences. "You get the benefit now, but the pain doesn't come for a long time."
Already the industry is beginning to raise prices in Canada in advance of the day when drug imports will be legalized. And some executives are threatening to withhold products from Europe unless prices are raised. But no one is predicting that short of imports being legalized, drug prices abroad will ever be as expensive as those in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zane Pauley of Whitmore Lake, Mich., travels to Canada to buy prescription drugs. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images) Chart: "Paying for Pills at Home and Abroad"An informal comparison of drug prices at three pharmacies chosen at random in Canada, Italy and the United States points to the vast disparity in costs.* Prescription drug prices Graph tracks the cost for selected drugs (in U.S. dollars) in Canada, Italy and the U.S.:* Lipitor (20 mg.)Zocor (40 mg.)Prilosec (20 mg.)Norvasc (5 mg.)Zyprexa (10 mg.)Prevacid (30 mg.)Paxil (20 mg.)Celebrex (200 mg.)Zoloft (50 mg.)Vioxx (25 mg.)Advair (250/50 mcg.)Neurontin (300 mg.) Note: Advair price is for 60 doses; Neurontin price is for 90 capsules; all others are for 30 capsules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); MAYORS (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); MEDICARE (57%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Consumer Behavior; Public Opinion; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Law and Legislation 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) Gardiner Harris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (95%); EUROPE (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



355 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: German City Tries to Persuade Pentagon to Keep Bases Open 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: MAINZ, Germany, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
The birthplace of Johann Gutenberg and the center of the German wine-growing industry, this is a gracious city, proud of its Roman roots and splendid medieval cathedral.
 While it advertises its wine festivals and thriving media industry -- a fitting legacy for Gutenberg's town -- Mainz says less about its other big local business: the American military. 
 Now, though, the United States is rethinking how to deploy its troops overseas, a process that could replace many of the fixed bases in Germany with more mobile installations in eastern Europe. Officials here are scrambling to avert what they fear could be an economic body blow to the region. 
Nearly 63,000 soldiers and their families live in Rhineland-Palatinate, the German state of which Mainz is the capital. The bases, scattered in the dense forests and rolling hills southwest of here, plow an estimated $1.4 billion a year into the state's economy, generating 27,000 civilian jobs.
With talk of base closings in the air -- some of it fueled by the rift between Germany and the United States over Iraq -- a delegation from Mainz traveled to the Pentagon recently to make a pitch for the troops to stay.
"We know we won't have any influence on the geopolitical strategy of the U.S.," said Karl Peter Bruch, the state secretary of Rhineland-Palatinate, who led the delegation. "But we wanted to explain to them why we believe this is the best place in the world for the U.S. military."
Armed with a slick presentation, Mr. Bruch tried to change some minds. He noted that Germany contributes $1 billion a year for the upkeep of American bases here. The Ramstein Air Base, he said, is the logistical hub for the campaign in Iraq -- the first stop for wounded soldiers, as well as the main supplier of ammunition, equipment -- even bread, which is baked at a local bakery.
While most Germans opposed the war, Mr. Bruch said Ramstein and other bases were left largely undisturbed by protesters. That level of security, he said, would be hard to match in Poland, Romania or other Eastern European countries, where the military has considered locating the bases.
To sweeten his pitch, Mr. Bruch proposed recruiting German investors to help the military build new living quarters for the American soldiers here. Much of the military housing dates from the 1950's and is decrepit. He said he could line up $130 million in financing to build 500 new houses.
"When the soldiers see how well people live outside the bases, they say, 'Why should I live in this crummy housing block?' " Mr. Bruch said. "We can offer them more attractive row houses."
Such appeals are likely to carry little weight with Pentagon officials, who have been instructed by Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld to break out of cold war-era thinking about how to deploy troops.
The watchword these days for the American military is agility. New bases would be modeled on Camp Bondsteel, which was constructed during the Kosovo conflict and features makeshift barracks and wooden helicopter hangars. They would be situated closer to the Middle East and other hot spots. 
Troops would be sent out on rotation, without their families, which would avoid the cost of building and running schools, churches or shopping centers. Ramstein alone costs $1 billion a year to operate.
"We're moving, not because we can get a better deal from another country, but because we need to be in another country," said Lt. Col. Mark Riccio, who is helping draft a plan for the Pentagon on how to realign its European bases. "It's about being in the right place strategically."
Gen. James L. Jones, the commander of United States forces in Europe, denies having a list of bases that would be closed. But the only one he consistently cites as having "enduring value" is Ramstein.
For Rhineland-Palatinate, that is a relief. But it still leaves vulnerable major Army installations in the city of Kaiserslautern, as well as the air base at Spangdahlem. With 34,000 American residents, Kaiserslautern has the largest American population outside the United States.
"We have never had a problem living with the soldiers," said Cornelia Weis, a state official who grew up in Landstuhl, where the Army has a hospital. "They are a part of our community."
For now, at least, Germany may get a reprieve. With the campaign in Iraq eating up so many resources, military analysts said Mr. Rumsfeld was unlikely to hasten the plan to close German bases.
"At the White House, they told us they would do nothing against the interests of the soldiers," Mr. Bruch said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Germany highlighting Mainz: Mainz, Germany, benefits from nearby American military bases. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CLOSINGS (67%); TERRORISM (62%); BAKERIES (61%) United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Terrorism; United States International Relations

PERSON: Mark Landler; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: RHEINLAND-PFALZ, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (99%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); ROMANIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); POLAND (57%) Germany; Mainz (Germany); Rhineland-Palatinate (Germany); Iraq; Germany

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



356 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Cattle Rushed to Market As the Price of Beef Soars 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: WEATHERFORD, Okla., Nov. 15 

 BODY:
About 30 of Tom Tippens's Black Angus cows wade halfway up to their knees in a field of winter wheat so thick and green they barely have to budge for a meal. Cattle ranchers, too, have never seen it so good, better even than the cattle, which in the genteel argot of meat production are subject to "harvesting."
 They are being harvested younger and faster than ever. 
 "The last two or three years, I lost a lot of money running cattle," said Mr. Tippens, 51, parking his Lexus S.U.V. to watch his ranch hand chase newly weaned calves from a pen, up a chute and into a trailer to be taken to pasture. "Now we've got the perfect storm. Prices are exploding. They're far beyond anything we have seen in history." 
Many things, like droughts in the Midwest and Great Plains, mad cow disease in Canada, and shifts in foreign trade and popular preferences, affect the price of beef. 
"But the unique thing about 2003," said Gregg Doud, chief economist for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, "is that all these factors are pulling in the same direction, pulling prices higher. That never happens." 
Cattle ranchers have just one complaint now: signs of more midnight rustlers running off with their calves. Ranchers, and the thieves, too, have been getting 90 cents to $1.15 a pound for cattle, often more than $1,000 a head. That is well above the 85-cent peak a decade ago and 30 and 40 cents more than a year ago. Many ranchers are betting that these prices will not last, so they are slaughtering cattle sooner and depleting their herds of the heifers they would otherwise use to build new herds. 
"This year's calf crop is expected to be 38 million head," the Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service wrote in a report last month, "the smallest calf crop since 1951." Another result of the early slaughtering is a scarcity of the tastier choice- and prime-grade cuts, like ribeye and tenderloin, that can make up 80 percent of the meat of the well-fattened steer and just 60 percent of a lighter steer. 
Soon, Mr. Tippens said, "the final, tug-of-war stage" begins in the retail market. Because of a tight supply of cattle, the Economic Research Service said in the report, "retail prices are likely to continue on a record-setting path as the higher prices are passed on to consumers." 
So far consumers have seen an average rise of about 10 percent in restaurant and supermarket prices, the department reported. Rather than raise prices, many restaurants and supermarkets are selling lower grade, select beef instead of choice, or promoting chicken and pork.
"We've had to raise prices on beef at least 50 cents a pound depending on the cut," Jeff Lowrance, spokesman for the Food Lion supermarket chain, said. "We sell choice. What we're finding is cattle being rushed to market with less meat that will grade out at choice." 
The Agriculture Department predicts that the high prices at auctions and feedlots, though slipping below $1, are likely to stick for two more years, and retailers can hold out for only so long with 50-cent increases like Food Lion's. Today's $35 Porterhouse at white-tablecloth steak houses could be heading past $50. 
Robert Noland, an owner of Davis & Main restaurant in Richmond, said he was paying about $6 a pound for certified Angus beef ribeye steaks in August. "About three weeks ago they jumped all the way to $10.20," he said. "So I've switched from certified Angus to just regular."
Jim Cannon, a vice president of the Ruth's Chris Steak House chain, based in New Orleans, said, "We're going to hold prices as much as possible." With prime cuts becoming costly and scarce, Mr. Cannon said some Ruth's Chris outlets were diverting customers with a $28.95 special of garlic-encrusted halibut. 
Beef prices cycle up and down just as they do for most things, like lumber, lobster or gasoline. But every cycle has its own characteristics. 
Demand for beef has surged with the industry's development of juicier cuts and the new popularity of the Atkins diet, which promotes high protein meals. Americans are eating 67 pounds of beef a year per capita now, 3 more pounds than a decade ago. 
As demand has climbed, droughts have been scorching the leading cattle-producing states, leaving thinning pastures, underweight cattle and depleted herds. Ranchers have cut their herds still more to eke out some revenue. By the start of this year, the supply was down to 96 million head from 104 million in 1993.
Then on May 20 this year, the corpse of an 8-year-old cow in Alberta was found with mad cow disease. Importation of Canadian beef, which accounts for 8 to 10 percent of American consumption, was stopped. With the supply already tight, prices rocketed.
Pressure on prices should ease because the Bush administration is planning to lift most of the embargo early next year, but since supplies were already tight before the embargo, economists doubt that renewed Canadian imports will push prices much lower for a couple of years. 
Ranchers, too, could be reinforcing high prices. Looking at the current, unheard-of prices, Leland Southard, an economist at the Economic Research Service, said ranchers are saying, "These are probably higher prices than I'll see next year." 
So, he said, a rancher asks, "Do I sell at this price, which is very high?" Or does he build his herd and risk having to sell when prices might be lower? Many have opted to sell now. Like cattle, Mr. Tippens said, "ranchers have a herd mentality." They could be setting themselves up for a couple of years when prices are still strong but they have little to sell. 
Mr. Tippens has developed a strategy to navigate this market and keep himself afloat. He owns only 200 cattle -- all breeding cows. "We've got a factory, which is a cattle herd," he said. "I have a synchronized calving operation so I can wean them at the same weight and the same age." 
In one field he has a herd of cows that have just become pregnant, so they will deliver in the late spring. In a pasture across from them, he has another herd that recently delivered.
Mr. Tippens also manages 3,000 cattle for other producers, in what is called a backgrounding operation. Other ranchers contract with him to take their newly weaned calves 30 or 40 days to rid them of disease and fatten them up for pasture. By backgrounding, Mr. Tippens avoids the risk of owning cattle that in another turn of the markets could be worth half what they sell for today or nothing at all if rustlers should strike. 
No one keeps national statistics on stolen cattle, so it is unclear whether reports, lately about one a week, mean a resurgence. Cattlemen say rustling does not appear to have risen in pace with the prices. 
"It's fairly constant," said Joe Rector, a field inspector and Oklahoma area supervisor for the 14,000-member Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, in Fort Worth. "This year, we'll recover in excess of $5 million in stolen property, and 70 to 75 percent of that is cattle," Mr. Rector said.
There may, however, be a surge in Iowa. "It seems like there's more now than ever," said Ronald Jordan, owner of a livestock auction business in Sioux Center that sells about 90,000 cattle a year and loses some to thieves. "They're getting really brave," Mr. Jordan said. "Ten head of cattle can bring $10,000 to $14,000."
"Two weeks ago a farmer in George, Iowa, lost 15 head," he said. No one knows where they went. A guy can take them and hold onto them for a year and then go sell them in Florida."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Tippens at his cattle ranch outside Hydro, Okla. "Prices are exploding," he said of the beef market. "They're far beyond anything we have seen in history." (Photographs by Jeffrey Haderthauer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); BEEF (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); MEATS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); DROUGHT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Livestock; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Meat; Livestock

COMPANY: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (68%); ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Agriculture Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (68%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

PERSON: Peter T Kilborn

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (71%) CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



357 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A P.R. Challenge: Marketing Croquet to the Malletless Masses in America 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Nov. 12 

 BODY:
Robert Fulford, the reigning world champion of croquet, settled into a cushioned wicker chair and surveyed a corner of his realm -- an emerald lawn dotted with wire wickets, a shady veranda set up for luncheon, white-shorted spectators murmuring and nibbling, waiters gliding about bearing jars of Grey Poupon.
 All was unruffled calm, yet all was not well. This was, after all, the world series of croquet -- the sport's grandest tournament, taking place in North America for the first time, and at the largest croquet grounds in the world. So why were there so many empty chairs? Where, alas, were the cameras and the sponsorship banners? Where was everybody? 
 "Certainly we could do more in terms of growth," Mr. Fulford, 34, a Londoner, said, tactfully cloaking his disappointment as he scanned the well-heeled enthusiasts who had come to the National Croquet Center to watch expert players from Britain, Australia, New Zealand and, in lesser numbers, the United States. "We'd like everyone everywhere to have access to croquet." 
Hold on to your teacups. Mr. Fulford and other croquet tragics, as die-hard fans are known in Britain, say they want everyone on this side of the Atlantic to embrace the game as a new national pastime, taking up wooden mallets and painted balls and pounding wickets into lawns from coast to coast.
Such populist ambitions are perhaps an odd fit for a tradition-steeped game played behind privet hedges, in Edith Wharton novels, in Merchant Ivory films and at the farthest reaches of the British Commonwealth. This is a game that even partisans admit is snooty, and too boring to be televised. And in an age of smackdown wrestling and smash-mouth football, the croquet world's favorite slogan -- "It's the ultimate social calisthenic" -- does not exactly roll off the teleprompter.
None of this has stopped officials at the $6 million croquet center, which opened last year, from embarking on a vigorous marketing campaign that highlights not just the familiar backyard version of the game but also newfangled forms meant to draw in high school students, young singles, middle-aged couples, grade-school gym classes. How else to justify the existence of the center, which bills itself as America's 21st-century Wimbledon?
Such misty optimism about croquet's potential is perhaps least far-fetched in Palm Beach County, which has one of the nation's highest per capita incomes and, according to the center, its highest concentration of croquet lawns. Polo is big here, as are garden parties, debutante balls and other pastimes of the very wealthy, to whom croquet was marketed almost exclusively in the past.
Center officials admit that Palm Beach may not be the best place from which to recruit a more racially and economically diverse fan base. Bob Alman, the director of marketing and community relations, said "there was tremendous concern" about the inconsistency of trying to broaden croquet's appeal from this place, a few miles south of the Millionaires' Row of mansions that has kept Palm Beach on the international socialite map for a century. 
"But what are you going to do?" Mr. Alman said. "There's no way of getting rid of that image, anyway, unless maybe Miller Lite comes and gives us a $1 million endorsement."
To the exasperation of Mr. Alman, 63, who helped organize the nation's first nonprofit croquet club in San Francisco in the 1980's, even companies that cater to the wealthy will not sponsor croquet events.
"Do you see the Jaguar money around here, do you see the Rolex?" Mr. Alman asked, perching on the veranda of the white-and-green clubhouse as the daily matches wound down around 2 p.m. "No, because we can't get television. TV would only work with golf croquet."
Ah, golf croquet. The way of the future, if Mr. Alman's plans work out. That version, he said, played on an undulating lawn that resembles a challenging golf course, is quicker, more exciting. The center has dedicated its Harpo Marx Lawn (Harpo having been one of this country's more prominent croquet tragics) to golf croquet, and is marketing it to middle-class couples, high school students and corporate groups.
Mr. Alman has other variations. He helped invent malletball, which uses soccer balls and outsize wickets, and which he says is perfect for the beach. In toequet, players kick soccer balls through the wickets.
Mr. Alman, just back from peddling malletball to members of a local chamber of commerce, predicted that revisionist croquet would take off. The Palm Beach County sheriff's Olympics this weekend features malletball, Mr. Alman said, and he will soon pitch the game to the county's gym teachers and supervisors of after-school programs.
Mr. Alman is also lobbying luxury and resort hotels. He expressed especially high hopes for South Beach, which he said had plenty of energetic fun-seekers but no croquet courts.
Until now, most croquet tragics have encountered the sport accidentally, said Jeff Soo, the manager of the tournament here, called the MacRobertson Shield after the trophy that is awarded. Mr. Soo, 39, first played croquet while on a beach vacation 10 years ago. When he got home to Chapel Hill, N.C., he discovered a small croquet club, where he has played ever since. Mr. Soo, who is of Chinese descent and was the only nonwhite person at Wednesday's matches, compared croquet to rock-climbing "in that it's a sequential thing" and to chess because of the strategizing it requires.
Playing organized croquet is also relatively inexpensive, Mr. Soo said, pointing to the growing number of clubs in California, Florida, Massachusetts, North Carolina and Illinois whose membership fees are generally far less than golf and country clubs'. The National Croquet Center's 300 members pay $100 a year, for students, to $1,500 a year, for a premium couple's membership.
The number of public croquet lawns is also growing, Mr. Alman said: New York City has one, in Central Park, as do Chicago, Denver, Hartford, Atlanta, Tulsa, Houston and Baton Rouge.
In New Zealand and Australia, croquet has much broader appeal, with clubs in every other town and people of all ages and classes taking up mallets. Carmel Statham, who traveled from Canberra, Australia, to watch the championship here, said the members of her local club ranged in age from 11 to 89. Furthermore, she said, Australian croquet players do not insist on wearing all white, preferring jeans and bare feet. (Ms. Statham, 55, in a green polka-dot blouse, and a reporter, in red and black, stood out in the sea of white attire like parrots among swans.)
The Americans were foundering during this championship, as usual -- the country has sent a team to the MacRobertson Shield only since 1993, and has never won. Americans are at a disadvantage, Ms. Statham said, because they do not normally play by the international rules that the British, Australians and New Zealanders know cold.
Robert Derham of Fort Lauderdale, who stopped by the championship after reading about it in a local paper, said he was intrigued by croquet because an extended family could play. Mr. Derham, 81, said that the official rules bewildered him but that he planned to buy a book about building croquet lawns nonetheless.
"You can't have 10-year-olds out playing tennis with grandma, but this is a different story," he said. "You can play this until you drop dead."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jerry Stark, captain of the United States croquet team, lining up a shot.; Stephen Mulliner, a Briton, played at the world croquet championship this month at the National Croquet Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. (Photographs by Barbara P. Hernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%) Croquet; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: National Croquet Center (West Palm Beach, Fla)

PERSON: Abby Goodnough; Bob Alman

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



358 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Politicians Join Criticism Of Finances In New York 

BYLINE:  By MIKE McINTIRE

DATELINE: PALISADES, N.Y., Nov. 14 

 BODY:
At conferences like the one that ended here on Friday titled "Fixing New York State's Fiscal Practices," it is not uncommon to hear gloom-and-doom assessments from those seeking change in government. Elected officials, if they show up at all, can be counted on to defend the status quo.
 But in a striking turnabout, this time it was the politicians who were seething over New York'sbudget problems and openly doubting the likelihood of reform. Indeed, in the view of some of them, the sky was not only falling -- it had already fallen. 
 There was H. Carl McCall, the former state comptroller and Democratic candidate for governor, lamenting that he "was really depressed" over New York's finances and "very pessimistic" about the prospects for solutions proposed by the Citizens Budget Commission, which sponsored the conference.
"It seems to me that we've found a new way to do business in New York," Mr. McCall said, "and it is called utter failure."
There was William A. Johnson Jr., the mayor of Rochester, declaring that New York "used to be known as the Empire State -- and we still act like we are."
But, Mr. Johnson said, "we are a dying state, and I don't know what it will take to get us to give up the inside games. If we keep playing them, we're heading down the road to oblivion."
And there was Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, who drew applause for his no-holds-barred description of the budget process in Albany. "It's a horrible, rotten, terrible, broken system," he said.
For all the harsh talk, participants at the annual gathering, held this year at an I.B.M. conference center here, did offer suggestions for improvement.
They said that New York State should plan better, by adopting multiyear budgets with quarterly modifications; establish an independent, nonpartisan office to watch over fiscal deliberations; require the Legislature to adopt a budget on time; and add to the "rainy day" fund so that more money is available during economic downturns.
"The system is so broken and people are so pessimistic that something has to change," said Diana Fortuna, president of the commission, a nonpartisan group supported by businesses, which seeks ways to contain government spending and taxes in New York.
"We're hopeful that this will get people thinking about ways to make it better," she said.
The despairing tone of the two-day conference was set early by Gerald Benjamin, the dean of liberal arts and sciences at the State University of New York at New Paltz. Mr. Benjamin opened the conference on Thursday night by summing up the state's problems, including the downgrading of its bonds, the one-shot infusions of cash and heavy borrowing to balance the budget, and a lack of oversight over public authorities that control billions of dollars.
"The reputation of the state has declined," Mr. Benjamin said. "New York once prided itself as being a leader in governance among the states. Now mediocrity is the norm."
Much of the criticism was leveled not only by academics and representatives of research organizations, but by current and former elected officials from the local level. Those officials said they had chafed under unfair burdens imposed by an aloof and inept state government.
Time and again, the local leaders complained that they have had to raise taxes to cover the cost of mandated services like Medicaid, which they said would be better paid for at the state level.
Mr. Suozzi spoke bitterly about unresponsive lawmakers in Albany. He suggested that they had grown too comfortable in their jobs because incumbents in the Legislature enjoy "a re-election rate higher than the Politburo in the old Soviet Union."
Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, picked up the theme of poor governance and unaccountable leadership, likening New York's use of public authorities to Enron's use of off-the-books partnerships to hide huge financial losses. Mr. Spitzer, like Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, another conference participant, attacked the authorities as spendthrift agencies and dumping grounds for those hired by patronage.
One state official who did attend was John Cape, the deputy director of the State Division of the Budget. Mr. Cape agreed with much of the commission's assessment of the state's fiscal problems, but ridiculed the notion that adopting the proposed changes would make New York "a model state."
"We already have that state -- it's called California," Mr. Cape said. "California has all these things and it is a poster child for fiscal irresponsibility." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%) Medicaid; Medicine and Health; Local Government

ORGANIZATION: Citizen's Budget Commission

PERSON: Mike Mcintire

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



359 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Bridgeport Mayor Knows He's the Focus 

BYLINE:  By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
JOHN M. FABRIZI had less than 20 hours to celebrate his victory in the Bridgeport mayoral race on Nov. 4 before critics started biting. Ken (Citizen) Smith, the afternoon talk-radio host on WICC, had called Mr. Fabrizi's press office and asked for an interview, but had been denied. So, as radio talk-show hosts often do, he went on an indignant rant.
 "I guess that's a signal," he said. "That's a sign. I'm taking that as a sign. When they fail to come on a day after the election it's a sign to me." 
 Mr. Smith, a Democrat who constantly attacks President Bush, was holding nothing back with the newly elected Democratic mayor. 
"It tells me that they want business as usual in Bridgeport. The day after the election he owes it to the citizens of Bridgeport to be on the radio."
Suddenly, the mayor kicked the door of the studio open.
"No one's blowing you off. Come on, Ken," Mr. Fabrizi said. He sounded exhausted. "It's been a long seven months."
"All right," Mr. Smith acknowledged. "I got a little paranoid."
Can the mayor get a break? Apparently not.
Mr. Fabrizi is treading lightly these days as he begins his four-year term. The city's previous mayor, Joseph P. Ganim, is serving nine years in federal prison for taking bribes, and Bridgeport is mired in an economic slump. Mr. Fabrizi, who stepped in when Mr. Ganim resigned last April, knows residents are on edge and are expecting the mayor to move them forward.
"I believe there's an extra focus because of previous issues," he said in an interview last week in his downtown office. "However, I welcome the focus. I don't mind people holding my feet to the fire, breathing down my back. It's all part of the job and I understand that."
It's not just talk-show hosts who are watching. Local business leaders have decided to present the mayor with a periodic report card, grading his efforts on everything from economic development to public safety. Honesty and public openness are also major concerns.
"We certainly had our bubble burst with the performance of the last mayor, so we want a gauge for future mayors so we can forestall future inappropriate behavior," said Paul S. Timpanelli, president and chief executive of the Bridgeport Regional Business Council, a nonprofit group representing the local business community and chambers of commerce.
The report card will not have letter grades, but will determine whether the mayor is "meeting expectations" or "failing to meet expectations."
The regional business council, which has about 1,000 members, will set up a committee to oversee the report card, Mr. Timpanelli said.
Mr. Fabrizi said he doesn't mind the scrutiny.
"If that gives the business community a comfort level, so be it," he said. 
It will take months, if not years, to find out whether Mr. Fabrizi is the honor student he claims to be. So far, at least, he has embraced symbols of openness and honesty. On his desk, next to a half-empty bottle of antacid tablets, Mr. Fabrizi has replaced the traditional nameplate with a placard stating "You don't have to pay to play in Bridgeport."
He has opened the bidding process on contracts and added members to the ethics commission. During Mr. Ganim's administration, there often weren't enough members of the commission to meet participation requirements. Mr. Fabrizi has sold the lavish oriental rugs and luxury cars of his predecessor. And, fittingly enough, one of the first vacant buildings to be restored is the old "City Trust" building across the street from the City Hall annex. That building will be converted by a developer into more than 130 market-rate apartments, as well as retail and commercial space. Next door an indoor mall was being renovated. Across the street from the Trust building, the old Read's department store will be converted into lofts for artists. Those projects will be under way within months, Mr. Fabrizi said.
With state and federal help, Bridgeport officials are hoping the city will begin operating a barge system that would transport shipping containers across Long Island Sound from New York and New Jersey, pulling trucks off the highway. It would also create jobs associated with warehousing and shipping.
State Representative Jacqueline Cocco, who represents the northwest corner of the city, said she is working on the barge plan. This is just the beginning of a strong partnership between the city and the state, she said.
"We need to know what important things are happening in the city and what we can do to bring them to fruition," she said.
Mr. Fabrizi also said he wanted to increase contact with Connecticut's representatives in Washington. Last week, he was scheduled to travel to the nation's capital to meet with a handful of senators and representatives, he said.
But he has also got bad news. Local taxes, which both Mr. Fabrizi and his challenger, Rick Torres, noted were exorbitantly high during the election campaign, will probably be going up again. Despite recent reductions in the mill rate, an upcoming property tax revaluation will likely result in higher taxes for many residents and businesses. Mr. Fabrizi hoped further mill rate reductions can keep taxes down.
His Republican opponent in the mayor's race, Mr. Torres, said he was upset when he heard taxes might go up again.
"I said I would cut them," he said. "He claimed he would help cut them. Now it looks like he's going to raise them."
Mr. Torres, who ran against great odds -- registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in Bridgeport 6-to-1 -- lost by more than 3,500 votes. He wasn't sure whether he will continue to be involved in politics or run for another office, but his anger and disappointment were still very much at the surface.
Mr. Fabrizi had indicated that he wants to move on from the bitter feelings generated by the race. Some of the most heated words came not from Mr. Torres, but from fellow Democrats who wanted the party to go in a new direction. Will those feelings simmer? Mr. Fabrizi doesn't think so. Turmoil in the party, he said, was cast into stark relief because of the difficult circumstances of this election.
"It was a unique time in Bridgeport, due to the scandal with the former mayor," he said.
That may be wishful thinking, given the fervor with which fellow Democrats, like State Representative Chris Caruso, have attacked Mr. Fabrizi.
As the mayor walked and waved in a Veteran's Day parade earlier this week, the handful of residents who lined the streets said they would give him time to settle into the office.
"He just got elected," said Timothy Horan, owner of the Downtown News & Mini-Mart. "Give him a chance."
And a week after his outburst, Citizen Smith came back on the air to announce that he would soften his approach. As the Carpenters's "We've Only Just Begun" played in the background, Mr. Smith announced he would lay off criticizing the mayor for 90 days, as a sort of "honeymoon."
"We'll give him a little breathing time," he said. "In the meantime, we'll let the wounds heal in Bridgeport."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor John M. Fabrizi of Bridgeport, with his wife, Mary, and son, Mike, behind him, greeting people at the city's Veterans Day parade last week. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); POLITICS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ETHICS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); BRIBERY (50%) Politics and Government; Ethics; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) John (Mayor) Fabrizi; Joseph Ganim; Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Bridgeport (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



360 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Dog Bed to Custom Cage: Tailoring the House to Fit the Pet 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE NADEL

 BODY:
SATURDAY sounds in suburban neighborhoods tend toward a generic mix of leaf blowers, car engines, children and babies. Maybe an occasional seagull or sparrow in the background. But in Wantagh, the familiar soundtrack is frequently overpowered by an unlikely sound: the high-pitched screams of a hyacinth macaw named Bentley.
 "When Bentley screams, you can hear him across the street," said Linda LaFleur, who owns the macaw plus two quieter birds and a 15-year-old Pomeranian. 
 Perhaps not surprisingly, when Mrs. LaFleur, 36, and her husband Artie, 37, brought Bentley home three years ago, a neighbor filed a complaint under a section of the Hempstead town code that prohibits "owning, possessing or harboring any animal or bird which howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes any other sounds which creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary."
Ms. LaFleur said that the police came to the house three times in response to theneighbor's complaint. "The cops would play with the birds, but they never gave us a ticket," she said. "We shut every window in the house and never opened them again."
And then they did what countless American pet owners are doing -- they redesigned their house around their pets. 
"This is one of the country's fastest-growing industries," said Julia Szabo, the author of "Animal House Style: Designing a Home to Share With Your Pets" (Bulfinch Press/Little, Brown, 2001). "In a rocky economy, people will only spend money on their kids and pets, which are like children."
Last year, Americans pampered their pets to the tune of $29.5 billion. Animal-oriented designs accounted for $100 million, a 10 percent increase over 2001, according to the American Pet Products Manufacturing Association.
Mr. and Ms. LaFleur have built a soundproof room for Bentley and their other two birds, a 6-year-old blue and gold macaw named Ally and a 5-year-old peach-face lovebird named Nick. The 10-foot-by-12-foot room has an insulated second wall and slabs of six-inch-thick industrial foam rubber stuffed into the window frames. 
Mr. LaFleur, an electrician, built the room himself for about $600. Two steel cages, 4 feet long, 2 1/2 feet wide and 6 feet high, take up most of the space. Ally's cage cost $700, but because Bentley is able to bend steel with his beak, he has a titanium cage, which cost $2,200. Nick occupies a smaller cage nearby.
Pointing to her wedding ring, Ms. LaFleur said that it was her third. "I had to get an airplane-grade titanium wedding ring made," she said. "It was the only ring that Bentley couldn't bend." 
Outside the bird room, the LaFleurs' house is decorated with ceramic wall hangings that read "Don't Ruffle My Feathers -- I Get Ugly" and "Pets Are Welcome. Children Must Be on a Leash." 
Since Ally, Bentley and Nick are free to fly through the house, the LaFleurs have installed tile and linoleum to make cleaning easier. 
Titanium cages are nothing compared with the pet furniture available in stores on the Island. Designs range from a $19 tartan dog bed at Costco in Westbury to wrought-iron four-poster dog beds for $450 in Pet Supplies Plus in Manhasset and Happy Tails in Great Neck.
"For every outrageous item I carry, there's a pet owner out there who'll buy it if he can find my store," said Norio Okui, a co-owner of Happy Tails. 
Where pets are concerned, elegance and functional design do not have to be expensive. James Blauvelt created a discreet screen of bushy spathiphyllum plants in a corner of the dining room at his weekend house in East Hampton to camouflage his cat's litter box. 
Mr. Blauvelt, 50, the executive director of catering at the Waldorf-Astoria, called his design "a moving day accident that became permanent." 
"You would never think of putting a litter box in a dining room," he added, "but it works."
Luke, a golden retriever puppy, has few restrictions in the restored chicken coop in Water Mill where he lives with his owner, Paul Donaher, during the summer.
"I wanted to make the house user-friendly to the new puppy, so I removed two carpets and rolled one up," said Mr. Donaher, 47, whose main residence is an apartment in Manhattan, where he is the president of the Mrs. John L. Strong Company, a stationery concern. Luke was given his own lamb's-wool bed and assigned a shelf in an antique armoire, where Mr. Donaher stores dog treats, toys and other supplies. 
The house is decorated with vintage black-and-white photographs, sepia prints, paintings and 19th-century ceramic heads of dogs, which are hung over doorways. "The dog motif is more about me than about the dogs," Mr. Donaher said.
Finding the right design is a continual process of analyzing what works and what doesn't. "My dogs are my interior designers." Ms. Szabo, the author, said. "They vote with their feet." 
Marie Birnbaum, 49, who has 4 adopted cats in her Lido Beach home and 10 strays living in a her backyard, said, "You have to constantly be changing your toys and your furniture." 
To keep her cats from getting bored, she bought a carpeted "kitty condo" for $125. It had three carpeted curved shelves attached to a scratching post. The cats would climb the post and curl up to sleep on the shelves. . 
But after six months, the cats stopped using the condo, so last January, Ms. Birnbaum gave it to Adele Santoro, 47. a hairdresser in Island Park. She also gave Ms. Santoro a kitten. Ms. Santoro loved the cat, but the condo did not fare as well. 
"My cat hates that thing," she said, so she ended up throwing it out.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda LaFleur with her macaws, Bentley, left, and Ally. Marie Birnbaum, left, plays with her cat Ice Cream, who is chasing a feather attached to a wand. Ice Cream wallows in catnip, right. "Kitty condos," top, at Pet Supplies Plus in Manhasset. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (90%); PETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BIRDS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CATS (74%); SUBURBS (73%); WRITERS (70%); LITERATURE (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%) Interior Design; Animals; Books and Literature

PERSON: Marie Birnbaum; James Blauvelt; Laurie Nadel; Linda Lafleur

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



361 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Going for the Glitter 

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
MONICA ANDERSON always liked to doodle on notebooks, napkins and scraps of paper.
 At the age of 40, she has parlayed that talent, plus a business degree, into a fast-growing, high-end greeting card company called Remanents and based in Haddon Township. In 2000, its first year in business, the company sold about 10,000 cards. This year, she says, it has already sold more than 250,000 to retail stores, including Saks Fifth Avenue, which started carrying them this fall. 
 The cards are petite and glittery and oh so girly. One card with earrings on the front says "every girl needs a good stud." The "low-fat Italian dressing" card has a picture of a slinky, glittery dress. And one of many shoe cards has a picture of a jazzy shoe called "Palm Slings." 
 "We think they are quite cute, and they are affordable and the quotes are great," said Cassandra Van Cott, stationery and gift buyer for Saks. "They are not only great to write notes on, but they are gifts and quite frameable."
 The cards, which sell for $2.95 to $6, have also been featured on Oprah Winfrey's television program.
 Ms. Anderson grew up in Los Angeles and went to college in the San Francisco Bay area, majoring in economics and business. She always appreciated art, she said, but "I never thought I had enough talent." 
 After she and her husband, John, moved to Haddonfield six years ago, she began making cards and stationery and doing special-order invitations or announcements for friends. In May 2000, she accompanied a neighbor, Lora Carr, who owned a small stationery company, to the National Stationery Show in New York.
 After checking out the competition, Ms. Anderson decided to start Remanents, which makes "designer greeting cards for those with a passion for fashion," she says in her marketing material. Ms. Carr sold her business and joined forces with Ms. Anderson.
 They made their first sale to The Papery in Marlton and have continued to expand to other shops in New Jersey, Philadelphia and throughout the county, including the 60 Papyrus stores. They now have two employees and at busy times hire other people to apply glitter to each hand-sparkled card.
 Even though Ms. Anderson is the head of the company and Ms. Carr is in charge of marketing, everyone helps to fill orders.
 "We all do it all," Ms. Anderson said. "I glitter on the weekends just to get caught up."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about Remaments, a greeting card company based in Haddon Township, referred incorrectly to Oprah Winfrey's reaction to the cards. The company's founder, Monica Anderson, said Ms. Winfrey's staff reported that she liked the cards. They were not featured on Ms. Winfrey's television program.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the cards, above, made by Remanents, a company started in 2000 by Monica Anderson, left. The company now has two employees. At busy times it hires more workers to join the production process, in which glitter is applied to each hand-sparkled card. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (77%); RETAILERS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%) Greeting Cards; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Remanents (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (50%) Monica Anderson; Debra Nussbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



362 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Product of New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By MARGE PERRY

 BODY:
FOR every cousin who forgetsthat this is the Garden State, for every New York City relative who believes there is no good food beyond the little island of Manhattan and for all those unfortunate souls who have not discovered the pleasures of New Jersey, it's time to pay attention.
 New Jersey has entrepreneurs aplenty who take good ingredients and make them even better. The following is a sampling of some of their products, timed for the holidays -- as gifts or for making shorter work of party preparations. All this, and they contribute to the state's economy, too. 

This (Not So) Little Piggy . . .
 Though ostensibly named for the French city from which it originally hails, Bayonne ham made by the Newark-based specialty food company D'Artagnan comes by its American name fair and square. Ariane Daguin, the French-born co-founder of the company, said she first produced this delicacy in a building with "one wall in Bayonne" -- Bayonne, N.J., that is. 
 Bayonne ham bears some resemblance to prosciutto, and is in fact made by a similar method. But Bayonne ham is earthier and meatier tasting than its Italian cousin, with less discernible salt. The ham, made from large pigs, is dried for a minimum of 12 months with the bone in, which helps enhance the meat flavor. The bone is removed before the ham is sold -- either sliced in 4-ounce packages for $7.30 or as a whole 10-to-12-pound ham ($173.25). 
 D'Artagnan also sells exquisite and almost haunting truffle butter (3 ounces for $8.90 or a 6-ounce log for $14.40). The two work in tandem: a slice of bread topped with a pat of the butter and draped with a slice of the ham puts a plane ticket to Gascony on top of everyone's holiday wish list. 
 Orders can be placed by calling (800)327-8246 or going to www.dartagnan.com.

Berries and Bees
 It makes perfect sense that New Jersey produces a knock-out blueberry honey. The state insect -- yes, the state has one is the honey bee. And New Jersey is the largest producer of blueberries after Michigan.
 But blueberry honey is not a purplish mixture of fruit and honey. Rather it is a woodsy, lightly floral, dark amber result of the necessary pollination of the blueberry highbush. It doesn't contain even a milligram of the actual fruit.
 In a win-win situation, blueberry growers hire beekeepers to release their bees unto the bushes to enable the plants to bear fruit. In return, the beekeepers collect the resulting sweet nectar. 
 Fruitwood Orchards Honey Farm of Monroeville has just such an arrangement in nearby Hammonton. The blueberry honey that Fruitwood Orchards produces is pure -- meaning that it is not blended with honeys from plants other than the blueberry bush. The Wright family, owners of Fruitwood Orchards, has been producing honey for more than half a century, and the experience shows. Enjoy the blueberry honey drizzled on buttered toast, scones or pancakes; use it to glaze meats and poultry; or, when no one is looking, lick it right out of the spoon.
 Orders can be placed at www.fruitwoodorchardshoney.com or (856)881-7748. A 12-ounce blueberry honey bear is $2.50, a 1-pound bottle is $3 and a 2-pound bottle, $5.50.

The Nose Knows
 Stroll down Ocean City's boardwalk and it inevitably happens: the aroma of warm caramel corn lures you into submission. No matter that you just ate -- one whiff and you move, zombie-like, toward the large copper kettle where the popcorn is transformed into a sweet and slightly salty treat.
 While nothing beats fresh-out-of-the-kettle caramel corn, Johnson's 28-ounce plastic tubs come close.
 In my family, none has ever survived a drive home from the shore fully intact. But in the rare event that a little bit is left a few weeks later, it's still irresistible. Bill Lombard, a co-owner of the company, says the caramel coating seals in the freshness of the air-popped corn. How and why is a secret; even summer employees sign confidentiality agreements.
 Johnson's sells one-, two- and three-gallon tins, now decorated with holiday themes ($25.95, $38.95 and $49.95, including delivery), and 28-ounce plastic tubs ( $21.95, delivered). Or, follow your nose to the shop at 1360 Boardwalk in Ocean City and watch them make a batch (it is open through January, then closes except for weekends, and then reopens after Easter). The caramel corn and Johnson's peanut crunch are available in a choice of 15 holiday tins or in plastic tubs at www.johnsonspopcorn.com or (800)842-2676.

Tomato Sauce, Purely
 Just how did Ed Simpson, the owner of Muirhead of Ringoes, manage to get that old-time flavor into every 16-ounce jar of Ed's Tomato Sauce? For anyone who grew up knowing tomato sauce as "gravy," this sauce may bring memories of Grandma with a wooden spoon permanently affixed to her arm. For all others, the sauce may just be a revelation.
 Tiny bits of tomato and onion are suspended in a tomato puree that is just thick enough, seasoned with oregano, basil, fennel seed and a hint of hot pepper. Is it perfect balance of seasoning that makes the sauce so good? Or does Ed's Tomato Sauce have the same secret ingredient as Grandma's? Mr. Simpson says it's the simple pure ingredients. 
 "The things I put on the market don't have all the additives of processed products," he said. "I make everything in small batches. It gets out there and it's gone."
 Muirhead is a family company of just five employees, including Mr. Simpson, 77; his wife, Doris; and their daughter, Barbara. In the last decade they have produced two finalists for outstanding new product at the Fancy Food Show in New York: Pecan Pumpkin Butter ($5.90 for 13.5 ounces) and Green Tomato Mincemeat ($5.90 for 14 ounces). 
 Ed's Tomato Sauce is sold in 16-ounce bottles for $4 plus shipping and can be ordered by calling (800)782-7803 or going to the Web site www.muirheadfoods.com.

Jersey Jam and Jelly
 While most customers who order from Spring Creek Farm go for the blueberry jam -- made, of course, from nearby Hammonton blueberries -- the farm's owner, Diana Johnson, especially likes her bluebarb jam. 
 For good reason. Adding the tart rhubarb to the intense flavor of blueberry somehow mellows it, making the jam smoother, more complex and less in-your-face sweet. This is a jam for marmalade lovers, for grown-ups who like a little balance in their bite. Serve it on scones with cream cheese, or give the pretty octagonal jar as a gift. Either way, you're helping keep the Garden State green: all Spring Creek Farm berries are locally grown.
 The farm, on 17 acres in Upper Deerfield Township, makes 28 flavors of jams and jellies, produced from both their own berries and those from nearby farms.
 A 5.75-ounce jar is $3.35; a 12-ounce jar, $5.25. Phone: (856)455-6462 .

GRAPHIC: Photos: Native products of the Garden State include Johnson's caramel popcorn, Muirhead tomato sauce and Fruitwood Orchards blueberry honey, as well as Bayonne ham and truffle butter, left, from D'Artagnan. (Photographs by Jim Simpson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); BERRY FARMING (88%); APICULTURE (85%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (54%) Food

PERSON: Marge Perry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (72%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



363 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: Manufactured Here 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER

 BODY:
LEA & PERRINS' Worcestershire Sauce is made in Worchester, England, and just one other place: New Jersey.
 North America's largest producer of cigarette paper is not in Virginia or North Carolina. It is in New Jersey. 
 Calvin Klein's Obsession is also made in the state. The chocolates placed on the pillows at the Regency on Park Avenue in Manhattan? You guessed it -- made in New Jersey. 
 "People are often shocked when we tell them that right in their own backyard is where many of the world's most beautiful fragrances are made," said Cosimo Policastro, executive vice president of the Givaudan Fragrances Corporation, in Mount Olive, which makes Obsession and fragrance oils used in many other products, including Hugo by Hugo Boss. "Too many people think of New Jersey as what they see off the New Jersey Turnpike."
 In fact, the state is home to 12,500 manufacturers that make specialized niche products, with fewer than 500 employees each. Many of these companies are family-owned; others are divisions of multinational corporations or key suppliers to them.
 Businesses of this size are the future of manufacturing, said Robert Loderstedt, chief executive of the New Jersey Manufacturing Extension Program Inc. in Newark. "That's where the real innovation and creativity emanates from," he said, adding that New Jersey's location, in the heart of the vast consumer markets of the Northeast and near ocean ports and rail and road networks, gives manufacturers an advantage despite the state's relatively high costs of labor, land and utilities.
 Italian immigrants brought Brioschi, the bubbly antacid, to New York City in the 1880's. In 1953 the company's United States division moved to Fair Lawn in Bergen County and settled into one of the nation's earliest suburban industrial parks.
 "We moved to New Jersey to escape all the taxes and confusion that was in Lower Manhattan," said Marco Brizzolara, 81, president and owner of Brioschi's United States operations. His father bought the United States rights to the product in 1925.
 Today, 14 employees make up to 9,000 pounds of Brioschi a day, when the company is in production. The main ingredient, sodium bicarbonate, is blended with the effervescent pH-balancing ingredient tartaric acid, a byproduct of grapes imported from Spain and Italy, Mr. Brizzolara said.
 In the same industrial park, 75 New Jersey employees for Lea & Perrins' make the spicy brown sauce from the same secret recipe used in Britain, where it is a condiment and a cultural mainstay. Anchovies, tamarind and garlic are among the key ingredients.
 Differences do exist between Lea & Perrins' customers in the United States and Britain. In Britain the sauce is used on eggs at breakfast and on grilled cheese sandwiches. In the United States it is sold for use with steak and as a "burger booster." The recent popularity of the Atkins Diet has not hurt business, and Bloody Mary demand remains steady, said Ralph Abrams, president of the company's American division.
 "We're in every restaurant and grocery store in America," Mr. Abrams said. "It's one of the few brands that can make it for 185 years."
 The Spotswood Mill in Middlesex County is North America's largest manufacturer of cigarette paper. The mill's 350 workers produce enough paper in a year to make 450 billion cigarettes. Yet the mill is nowhere near its raw materials in Manitoba or the plants in Virginia and North Carolina where Spotswood paper is rolled around Marlboros and Camels.
 The 62-year-old mill is still in business here because of investment decisions made by Schweitzer-Mauduit International Inc., based in Atlanta, which spun off from Kimberly-Clark in 1995.
 The owners have recently spent $60 million to upgrade the mill's machinery, said Bill Foust, vice president for administration, to make fire-retardant paper, which is mandated for use in cigarettes sold in New York beginning in mid-2004. "In a continuing effort to improve operations over the last 12 years we have spent over $100 million in the plant's facility and equipment," he said.
 Varda Shambon was a concert pianist when she began making truffles in her Manhattan kitchen 16 years ago. Now, her specialty chocolate company, Varda Chocolatier, occupies 20,000 square feet in Elizabeth, where it molds Belgian chocolate into more than 1,000 products, including palm trees, cactus, camels, saddle shoes and a hot air balloon. 
 Ms. Shambon chose Elizabeth because it is convenient to her base of clients in the New York hospitality and travel industries. The state of New Jersey provided real estate incentives with financing and tax credits. Still, Ms. Shambon is disappointed in one way with New Jersey and the United States: chocolate consumption per person here is only about eight or nine pounds a year, half that of the world leader, Holland.
 "There's still big potential," she said.
 One of the world's largest makers of ear-piercing kits, the Inverness Corporation, is based in Fair Lawn. The 30-year-old business makes encapsulated ear-piercing equipment for customers like Wal-Mart, Piercing Pagoda and Claire's, as well as 2,000 jewelers and 2,400 salons and day spas.
 "It's a rite of passage," said Peter Indiveri, president of Inverness. "It's a special event that has to be treated with the utmost safety but also fun." Inverness has 190 styles of ear-piercing studs and has just introduced a product, Klixx, which allows the newly pierced to change the look of their earrings without changing the post during the healing process. 
 "When you're dealing with teenagers, there is a patience factor," Mr. Indiveri said.
 Inverness needs to stay fresh because it has only a limited time to reach consumers before their piercing days are over.
 "At age 25 it's time to get serious about life," he said. "Whatever the statement is, it's got to go."
 Advanced Cerametrics, in Lambertville, makes ceramic fibers that are used in tennis rackets to control vibration. The technology grew out of work the company did for the Pentagon to muffle the sound of helicopter rotors. The leap from helicopters to tennis rackets came after a conversation about the fibers that the owner of Advanced Cerametrics, Richard Cass, had after a game of tennis with a friend who worked for Prince, the racket manufacturer. In the end Prince was not interested, but Head was. Andre Agassi now uses a Head racket with Advanced Cerametric fibers.
 The ceramic fibers cancel vibrations in the racket, making it tighter and generating 15 percent more energy when the ball is hit, Mr. Cass said. "The net effect is, the sweet spot is as big as the whole racket when normally it's just six inches," he said.
 The company is also using its product in skis and is working with manufacturers of baseball bats, hockey sticks and archery bows. Mr. Cass said there might be applications for golf clubs, but he doubts the tradition-bound sport would accept the change.
 Originally, Mr. Cass said, the 55-year-old business was a manufacturer of textile machinery parts, but that business steadily moved south and offshore.
 "By the end of the 1980's we said, 'If we are going to stay in business we need to adapt new technology and devote significant resources,"' Mr. Cass said. "Fortunately, it paid off."
 Mr. Cass said the company, which has $2 million in annual sales, used federal government financing to help develop the product.
 In the long term, he said, his company's true potential is not in tennis rackets and skis, but in helicopters and aircraft. The company is also working on using its fibers to improve the sound of guitars, generate heat in hiking boots and charge batteries.
 Many of New Jersey's niche manufacturers are a part of larger United States and European multinationals. Lysol, AirWick, Easy-Off oven cleaner and Mop & Glo are made in Belle Meade by their British owner, Reckitt Benckiser.
 Others are castoffs from big companies that changed their business strategy. Mr. Loderstedt of New Jersey's manufacturing program said that when a big company sheds a plant or a division, new owners often make a success of the remains because they are more entrepreneurial and innovative. "There's less bureaucracy and less overhead," he said. "They're focused. Many of them live day to day. That's the nature of the beast. But when you have something personally invested, you work a lot harder."
 The Integra LifeSciences Corporation, which makes artificial skin, was spun out of Marion Merrell Dow, previously a part of Dow Chemical, which had been unsuccessful in getting Food and Drug Administration approval for the same product.
 Jack Henneman, Integra's executive vice president for administration, said the new company bought the rights to Marion Merrell Dow's clinical trial data and manufacturing processes in the early 1990's and went back to the F.D.A. It won approval for the product, known as Integra dermal regeneration template, in 1996.
 "It involved mostly a lot of hard work," Mr. Henneman said. "My guess is, if Marion had been willing to invest more money and more time they would have been able to get it approved."
 Integra has 860 workers worldwide, with 250 at its collagen plant and headquarters in Plainsboro. Last year the company had $118 million in sales. It went public in 1996, pulling in investors who believed its artificial skin would be a hit.
 "The product did turn out to be stupendous from the standpoint of the patient," Mr. Henneman said. "But the commercial success did not meet the expectations of the initial investors."
However, it formed the backbone of a series of other products that remodel tissue. Integra's leading product is DuraGen, which repairs the sac around the brain and the spinal cord after surgery. It also makes NeuraGen, which stimulates nerve regeneration, and products that help bone growth and oral surgery.
 "The original technology," Mr. Henneman said, "has been central to each of these."
 Sometimes when conglomerates fail, families prevail.
 "If you go back 20 years, New Jersey was the plastics capital of the world," Mr. Loderstedt said. Many of those companies have folded under intense pressure from low-cost producers around the world.
 FPI Thermoplastic Technologies in Morristown is a survivor, making half of all the brown plastic trays McDonald's uses in its restaurants. That's two million trays a year. The company, which has 120 employees, also makes smoke detectors, heat sensors, retail cosmetic display cases and toilet and hand towel dispensers for commercial restrooms.
 Brian Murray, a senior executive at a large plastics company, bought the business in 1978 from Air Products and Chemicals, a Pennsylvania multinational. His sons joined the company right after college, Sebastian in 1981 and Samuel in 1987. The sons are now running the company, following the death of their father in 2000.
 Sebastian Murray, chief executive of FPI, has just one word to describe how his plastics business has survived in New Jersey: robots. Each of the company's 28 plastics injection-molding machines is operated by a robot or can be controlled automatically. Mr. Murray said he had been to factories in China where it took 700 workers to turn out the same volume of products FPI can make in the same amount of time.
 "We have invested significantly in automation and robotics to bring our costs down and allow us to compete with the Far East," he said. In one sense, though, he has something in common with China. "I would love to pass this business on to my kids and create some kind of a dynasty," he said. "That was my dad's vision."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Products made in New Jersey, in full or in part, range from artificial skin to cigarette paper, antacids, fragrances, chocolates and household cleaning aids. The state is home to 12,500 manufacturers that make specialized niche products, with fewer than 500 employees each. And businesses of this size are said to be the future of manufacturing. (Photos by Schweitzer-Mauduit, above, and Clarins Fragrance Group Hugo ); (Photo by Integra LifeSciences); (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRENDS (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (52%); SUBURBS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: GIVAUDAN FRANCE FRAGRANCES SAS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%)

PERSON: Susan Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SPAIN (79%); ENGLAND (73%); ITALY (54%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



364 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Ford Focus PZEV; 
A Stealthy Operative In the War on Pollution

BYLINE:  By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
AT first glance, the Ford Focus PZEV, which combines gasoline-engine practicality with ultraclean tailpipe emissions, seems to be the gift that no one asked for. Car owners who care about their vehicles' evaporative emissions performance, or the rate at which catalytic converters heat up, seem few and far between.
 But there is growing evidence that consumers will seek out environmentally responsible vehicles if they do not have to make a tradeoff in terms of lower performance or a higher price. Few people paid attention to fuel economy in 1987, when a survey by J.D. Power & Associates found that only 3 percent of consumers considered it the most important factor in buying a new car. But a survey this year by the same company indicated that gas mileage is now the top consideration of 15 percent of car shoppers, and the fifth-highest priority. 
 Thus, the Focus PZEV -- the label stands for partial zero-emission vehicle, one of many mind-numbing categories established by clean-air regulators -- has arrived at an opportune time. Although its mileage is not appreciably different from that of a regular Focus, its emissions are remarkably lower. 
The Focus PZEV, with a special 2.3-liter 4-cylinder Duratec engine, produces just one-tenth of the smog-causing emissions that come from a Focus with the conventional 2-liter Zetec engine; the PZEV puts out just 1 pound of these emissions over 15,000 miles, using the low-sulfur gasoline sold in California, compared with 10.7 pounds for the regular Focus. (The difference with the expiring federal pollution standard, known as Tier 1, is more stark: that rule permitted 30.1 pounds over the same distance.)
One might expect such clean-air gains to be accompanied by fireworks and confetti, but the clean Focus, like about a dozen other PZEV models, has slipped into the market as quietly as a secret agent on a cold war rendezvous. While Ford has made its Focus available for test drives, the publicity departments at some other companies seem barely aware that they offer such cars. 
Even environmental groups, focused on hydrogen fuel-cell and hybrid gas-electric technologies, seem only vaguely familiar with PZEV's. "What are they exactly?" asked the Washington-based press secretary for a group focused on clean energy.
This new Focus, like PZEV's from 11 other automakers, is designed to meet the strict new environmental rules in a handful of states, and they do so with mostly mundane, relatively low-cost modificiations to existing gas-engine technologies -- like revised catalytic converters that heat up very quickly to cut the pollution produced by cold engines. 
California regulators, trying to clean up some of the nation's worst air, have changed their rules under a compromise with the industry. Originally, the California Air Resources Board had ordered carmakers to produce zero-emission battery cars under a complex system of credits that is part of the state's low-emission program. Tough revisions to those rules were adopted in 1999 to cover the 2004-10 model years. As a result both of automaker lawsuits and the failure in the marketplace of plug-in battery vehicles like General Motors' EV-1, the California board allowed automakers to gain credits from low-emission gasoline cars.
Because four Northeast states follow California's rules, PZEV's are also sold in New York, Massachusetts, Vermont and Maine (with some spillover to nearby states).
Starting with 2003 1/2 models, the PZEV powertrain became standard on all Focus cars sold in California and the four Northeast states, except for the high-performance Focus SVT, and the package is available nationally on 2004 models as a $115 option. Jim Cain, a Ford spokesman, said: "In California, we do market the environmental benefits very clearly. But Focus customers will get a PZEV no matter where the environment is on their concern list." 
The potential benefits of PZEV's may be far more sweeping, at least in the short term, than the gains from hybrid cars. Tens of thousands of PZEV's are already on the road, at little or no cost premium beyond conventional gasoline versions of the same cars. New models are coming, and sales are expected to grow steadily. In contrast, only 100,000 hybrid cars have been sold in the United States since 1999, when the Honda Insight became first on the market.
Ford has sold 36,000 PZEV's and projects 100,000 sales through the 2004 model year. By contrast, United States sales of the Toyota Prius hybrid have totaled only 56,255 over three years, through Oct. 31. And despite the publicity given to fuel-cell cars, practical versions remain a dream, given the challenges of creating a hydrogen infrastructure.
Focus PZEV's start at a reasonable $13,915, including delivery charge. I tested a five-door ZX5 Premium,with a base price of $16,785 and a sticker total of $19,445. With a five-speed manual transmission, it had an economy rating of 25 m.p.g. in town and 33 on the highway, roughly the same as the standard ZX5. The Prius hybrid, with more high-tech features and a combined mileage rating of 55 m.p.g., lists for $19,995, making it tough competition, although there are long waiting lists for the 2004 model.
If you are looking for a car that makes a public statement, the Focus PZEV is not for you. Unlike battery cars festooned with decals or the oddly futuristic-looking Insight, the compact Ford blends into the background. There is no clue, not even a discreet emblem, that the car is far greener than the average Focus.
Still, it is more fun to drive than the average econobox, especially with the five-speed manual transmission. The car requires no sacrifices. Its small but energetic engine produces 144 horsepower, compared with 130 in the basic Focus sold in 45 states. The PZEV is a tight, zippy car, the kind you'll enjoy throwing into curves a little faster than might seem prudent.
Weighing just 2,600 pounds and aerodynamically styled, the five-door hatchback is handsome in a modern way, but also practical: there is room for four, plus luggage, and great visibility all around. My 6-foot-7 cousin even managed to fit (albeit snugly) behind the wheel.
I seldom have the opportunity to put test cars to serious braking and handling tests, but I had my chance on the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut when a Ford Taurus flew across the divider and landed right in front of me. I sawed the wheel, stood on the brakes, and made it safely to the shoulder.
After seven days of regular use, I felt rather virtuous, having used only a half-tank of fuel. And compared with the average 2003 automobile, the Focus PZEV produces 97 percent less hydrocarbon and nitrogen oxide emissions, and 76 percent less carbon monoxide. But not all environmentalists are convinced. "PZEV's certainly help improve air quality," said Bill Moore, editor of EV World, an online magazine about electric cars. "But they do zip for fuel efficiency or reducing oil imports." 
Nor do PZEV's reduce another type of emissions, the carbon dioxide produced by burning gasoline that is the primary greenhouse gas contributing to global warming.
Even if environmentalists are skeptical, and even though many consumers haven't a clue what PZEV stands for, the technology will soon be on cars across the nation, and it should have a profound and positive effect on air pollution. California rules say that 6 percent of carmakers' production should be PZEV's, and at the rate these cars are moving off dealer lots, that goal could be achieved. "PZEV's are a fantastic outcome of the zero-emissions vehicle program," said David Friedman, research director of the Union of Concerned Scientists.

INSIDE TRACK: Green without pain.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "The P's and Q's of PZEV's: Very Clean Cars You Can Drive Today" lists features and specifications for selected 2004 automobiles. Chart: "What Those Letters Mean" lists different abbreviations and their meanings for clean-car categories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); GASOLINE (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); SMOG (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKETING SURVEYS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%) Air Pollution; Automobiles; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: Jim Motavalli

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) California; Maine; Massachusetts; New York State; Vermont

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



365 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
For Job Seekers, More Hoops and Hurdles

BYLINE:  By Betsy Cummings

 BODY:
Rob McIntosh feels like he's been jilted -- 10 times in a row. Over the past year, Mr. McIntosh, a graphic designer and creative director, has come close to snagging a job that many times, only to be told "no thanks" in the 11th hour. One company promised him a job that later vanished. Another asked him to complete hundreds of dollars of freelance work as a "tryout," then balked at payment. Still another invited him to interviews on four occasions for a position that he is now convinced never existed. 
 Mr. McIntosh, who had never waited more than three weeks for a job offer, couldn't conceive that employment was so elusive -- or employers so demanding. But his recent experiences have made it painfully obvious how maddening a job search can be in this economy. 
 Mr. McIntosh, 37, who was laid off last year from his position as a designer at Scient, an information technology services company in New York, might find comfort in the fact that he's not alone. Recent statistics from the United States Department of Labor indicate that the national economy has grown at 8 percent in the past quarter, while unemployment claims have dropped by more than 50,000. But in the New York metropolitan area, the jobless rate is 8.6 percent, compared with 6 percent nationwide.
It doesn't help that some employers are using the current market to their advantage. A glut of job seekers means companies wade through more resumes, but have the luxury of a larger talent pool. "Employers in poorer markets can afford to be fussier and look for the perfect applicant," said James Brown, a labor market analyst with New York State's Department of Labor, who said 300,000 people statewide are looking for work, up from 200,000 two years ago. 
For job seekers that can mean being left in a lurch. Every hiring process Mr. McIntosh has gone through since losing his job at Scient has lasted at least two months and frequently longer.
That wait has meant a loss of opportunity. This September, Mr. McIntosh felt he was on the verge of landing the position of creative director of branded environments at one New York company. After his initial interview, Mr. McIntosh was told he was at the top of the list of seven applicants.
"The H.R. person said, 'We're ready for the next step,"' Mr. McIntosh said. The next step would be an offer, he assumed, since the firm had checked his references. But instead, the company called him to say they had chosen someone with more experience. In the interim, Mr. McIntosh had turned down a $14,000 freelance project for fear he couldn't juggle a new job and outside work simultaneously.
Overall, he has declined more than $50,000 in freelance work this year, after being told he was the top contender for various jobs. "I could go bankrupt looking for a job," he said.
"In a boom economy employers are reluctant to put up hoops," said Matt Ferguson, president of CareerBuilder.com. "But now they're saying there's eight things an employee has to do to be considered."
Such demands forced Mr. McIntosh to look beyond the city, but with even more alarming results. This summer, he was told before flying to a national retailer's Minneapolis headquarters that, besides three days of interviews, he would take a psychology test. "I assumed it would be a half-hour commitment," he said. Instead, he spent four hours taking an SAT-style exam that included a personal essay, reading, math and a 400-question section that asked about his family structure and political leanings. Mr. McIntosh scored low; the company asked him to retake the test, but he declined. 
Part of the problem may be that employers fear the cost of bad hiring decisions, said Erik Rambusch, director of outplacement services at Partners in Human Resources International, a job placement firm in New York. Still, he said, some firms are taking advantage of the situation.
Mr. McIntosh can't decide if opening a full-time studio would be smarter than chasing an elusive job. The idea has some appeal -- and not just to him. "It pulls your friends and family down too," he said. "You tell them a job seems imminent and they get their expectations up. Then all of a sudden they're as disappointed as you are."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob McIntosh has been frustrated in his search for a job in graphic design. He has turned down thousands of dollars in freelance work while waiting for hiring decisions. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); CITIES (70%); BRANDING (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Betsy Cummings; Rob McIntosh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



366 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Vote for Sewage Study Breaks Logjam 

BYLINE:  By ALICE KENNY

 BODY:
AFTER years of wrangling, county legislators last week broke through the logjam that had blocked efforts to keep untreated human waste out of reservoirs supplying drinking water to nearly one million New York City and Westchester residents. 
 The breakthrough came on a relatively mundane vote, to commission a study of ways to protect the watershed. 
 Aging wastewater treatment plants and septic fields in Yorktown and New Castle spew nearly two million gallons of treated and sometimes untreated human waste into the watershed daily. Still more dirty water leaches in from compromised septic fields and cesspools in Bedford Hills and Katonah. 
The county began debating how to clean the reservoirs in 1997 after cutting a deal with New York City, promising to protect the watershed in return for $38 million from the New York City (now, with interest, grown to $51 million) to cover expenses.
At the urgingof the 12 Westchester communities lying within the watershed, the county initially considered diverting waste water out of the watershed and into underground pipes going to county treatment plants in Peekskill and Yonkers, which discharge into the Hudson River. 
In October 2002, County Executive Andrew J. Spano endorsed the proposal and sent it to the County Board of Legislators, requesting its approval to use $1.4 million of New York City funds to assess the plan's environmental impact. Before scheduling the vote, legislators held a series of local informational meetings.
But Peekskill and Yonkers residents packed the meetings, accusing the county of environmental racism for planning to send foul-smelling waste water into cities with high populations of low-income or minority residents. 
Responding to this opposition, legislators instead agreed this week to commission the study, a $500,000 analysis that would evaluate alternative methods to protect the watershed. They also created a citizens advisory committee of residents from affected areas who, along with the legislators, will oversee the study. 
Under the committee's direction, the analysis will compare the diversion plan with the possibility of instead adding state-of-the-art measures to upgrade existing Yorktown and New Castle wastewater treatment plants and septic systems. It will evaluate the alternatives' environmental and engineering effectiveness and consider their impacts on the economy, public health and quality of life.
"After near-certainty that diversion would go through -- it was the only way studied for six years -- they're now obliged to look at alternatives," said Marion Rose as she celebrated the legislators' vote with fellow environmentalists who said they worried that diversion would remove limits on development in the watershed, causing increased runoff and further damage to the reservoir. 
Ms. Rose heads the Croton Watershed Clean Water Coalition, a watchdog environmental organization formed to ensure the purity of New York City's reservoirs.
The vote also marked the first time residents of potentially affected communities agreed to abandon turf battles and work together to find a regional solution. 
"The initial process was not inclusive," said Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Democratic legislator representing Yonkers. "Now we're beginning with all the impacted parties at the table talking about all the issues at hand. It doesn't mean we'll all be singing 'Kumbaya,' but I certainly support this and look forward to the study's conclusions."
John Raymond, the Westchester County chairman of Inter-Local Organizing Committees, a community group that grew out of the Million Man March on Washington, said he hopes to serve on the advisory committee. "The original move toward diversion would have been a serious injustice toward the minority community," he said. "With the upcoming discussion we can correct those injustices."
While the original debate was a geographic one, the vote divided instead along party lines, with 10 Democrats voting for the alternative analysis and 5 Republicans voting against it. Two legislators were absent.
"How can I not support something that looks as benign and gentle as a comparative analysis?" asked George Oros, a Republican legislator who represents Cortlandt and Peekskill. "Because it considers diversion, something a majority of the legislators do not want."
While leaving open the possibility of diverting Yorktown's waste to Peekskill, the comparative analysis also introduced the option of diverting New Castle's waste to the state-operated sewage treatment plants at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility. 
Because this diversion would use up the plant's excess capacity, it would undercut efforts of Ursula G. LaMotte, a Republican legislator who spent the last year and a half negotiating with the state to lay sewer lines that would link the treatment plant to homes and businesses in her district that have failing septic systems.
Ms. Cousins and Legislator Michael B. Kaplowitz of Yorktown, both Democrats, drafted the compromise legislation approved this week. According to the timeline, an engineering company will be chosen in the next four months to conduct the study.When the study -- slated to take six months -- is completed, it will be presented to the legislators for another vote. If New York City approves the legislators' plans to protect the reservoirs; it will release funds to pay for the work.
"Although we continue to believe that the proposed diversion project is the best option for dealing with certain water quality problems in Yorktown and New Castle," Mark Hoffer , New York City Department of Environmental Protection general counsel, wrote to Mr. Kaplowitz, "we are willing to support a feasibility study."
"Naturally, we would hope that the feasibility study will yield recommendations that the City can support."
Meanwhile, the clock is ticking, and fines are beginning to mount in Westchester. Last year, Yorktown entered into consent orders with Riverkeeper, the Garrison-based environmental organization, and with the State Department of Environmental Conservation, agreeing to install new equipment in its antiquated wastewater treatment plant to prevent storm water from seeping into aging pipes and to keep ammonia from flowing into the reservoir. So far, according to Yorktown engineer Sharon Robinson, the town has spent more than $100,000 upgrading the plant, but hoped to learn whether the plant would be closed and its sewage diverted before undertaking the remainder of the work, estimated to cost over $4 million and scheduled to begin by next September.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ttreatment plant in Yorktown Heights, which will come under scrutiny. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (91%); COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RIVERS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); WASTE REDUCTION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); RACE & RACISM (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%) Water Pollution

PERSON: Alice Kenny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Westchester County (NY); New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



367 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2737 words

HEADLINE: An Especially Taxing Burden 

BYLINE:  By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

 BODY:
IT is a matter of near-universal agreement in Westchester that property taxes are too high. But what is not obvious is whether the burden is being shared equally. 
 Consider this: The property tax bill on John D'Agnillo's three-bedroom Yonkers home is about $3,000, before a state tax break for older residents, Mr. D'Agnillo said. But his backyard neighbors, Julie and Michael F. Meyer, said they pay $9,500 in taxes for their three-bedroom house, which has a slightly larger lot. 
 The new owners of a six-bedroom Victorian house in Bronxville that they just bought for $3.25 million have a total tax bill of $30,000 in 2003, while the owners of a nearby five-bedroom split-level that sold recently for $1.95 million have a tax bill of $43,000 village officials said. 
Two homes on a single block in Chappaqua sold recently for about $3 million each. One, a four-bedroom house on four acres, with a pool and a pond, is taxed at $71,000. The other, a six-bedroom house on four acres, with a pool and tennis court, is taxed at $56,000 officials there said. 
Other examples abound. Inequities like these in Westchester County's residential property taxes are an integral part of the confusing, complex, and sometimes seemingly arbitrary tax system, one that levies the highest average property tax per household in the state of New York. 
Experts agree that the system is antiquated, inefficient, and, ultimately, deceptive. Yet it is unlikely to change any time soon, in part because there do not appear to be any political incentives to change it. Homeowners whine at length about their tax bills, and anti-tax groups mount occasional local protests, but Westchester residents have yet to unite in a midnight march on White Plains or Albany, or village offices, with pitchforks and torches.
"Westchester's ugly little secret is that its assessment practices are so antiquated and erratic, it's a real scandal," said Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Westchester County Board of Realtors. "It's just an outrage that our tax system is so bush league compared to almost anywhere else." 
The only Westchester town to have updated its tax assessment system is Pelham, which now has annual revaluations; in addition, the Town of Rye is in the process of conducting a town-wide reassessment. Every other Westchester municipality, however, is taxing homeowners based on assessments that are, on average, 38 years old, and thus reflect and preserve quirky and even inequitable judgments. That excludes Mount Vernon, with an assessment roll that is literally an antique, dating all the way back to 1853, according to Anthony DeBellis, the commissioner of assessment.
Property tax bills are, of course, the result of many factors. Governments and school boards need money to pay for social services like Medicaid and education. Tax revenues from homeowners, industry and commercial enterprises are the primary source of that money. In places with more commercial and industrial enterprise -- say White Plains, with its bustling commerce, or Armonk, with I.B.M.'s headquarters -- residential property taxes tend to be lower. In places where there is little industry or commerce, like Pelham, residential taxes tend to be higher. Also, taxes seldom seem to go down; they only go up. 
These things seem never to change. But what most experts agree upon is that the assessments of housing values, the judgment of a house's worth, upon which taxes are levied, should change. They should be examined periodically and adjusted they are inequitable, so that owners of similar houses get similar tax bills, meaning that recipients of services share the burden equally. Assessed value is, theoretically, an estimate of how much a home would sell for, and in markets like Westchester's, that number can vary dramatically from year to year. "The longer you go without a reassessment, the more inequities in the system," said Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, in Latham, N.Y., a nonprofit research organization that focuses on tax and public policy issues.
David Gaskell, a retired executive director of the Office of Real Property Services in Albany, which promotes and supports fairness in local taxes, added: "There's no question that the quality of assessing in Westchester, if not the worst, is close to worstin the state."
Tax experts say that property taxes in Westchester County are unfair on two levels. First, owners of similar houses in the same neighborhood, like the examples in Yonkers, Bronxville and Chappaqua, sometimes pay dramatically different taxes. Second. there is also a surprising inequity in the tax burden between the poorer cities and the wealthier municipalities in Westchester County. 
On the first point, it is often true that neighbors know of and discuss each others' tax issues. A loyal, born-and-bred Yonkers resident, 65-year-old Mr. D'Agnillo has made it his hobby to challenge his property assessment, which he has done twice in the last seven years. As a result, he got his assessment reduced by more than 20 percent. 
The Meyers, Mr. D'Agnillo's neighbors, have challenged their property assessment twice, but failed both times. When Mr. Meyer asked for an explanation from the Yonkers assessor's office, he said he was told that because he and his wife had made improvements, they did not qualify for a reduction, said Mrs. Meyer. She said all they had done was to paint the interior and refinish the hardwood floors.
In Bronxville, too, divergent assessments result in radically disparate tax bills.
Among the 15 houses sold by brokers this year that were built after 1945, the average tax assessment was about $50,000, with an average sale price of $1.5 million. But among the 9 houses sold by brokers this year that were built before 1910, the average tax assessment was much less, $43,000, despite a higher average sale price, $2 million, according to an analysis by Carolyn Martin, an associate broker with Bronxville-Ley Real Estate. 
It is common, she said, for newer homes and those that have been recently renovated to be assessed at higher amounts than older, unrenovated homes, and therefore to owe much more in taxes. It was this kind of inequity that fueled a thriving business of challenging property tax assessments in Westchester in the 1990's. Since 1990, for instance, The Home Team, in Pleasantville, has taken on 15,000 tax challenges, including Mr. D'Agnillo's, winning about 95 percent of those cases, according to the owner, Michael H McBride. 
"In the 1990's, we corrected a lot of high assessments," he said, "but because of the hyper-inflation that has hit the housing market, many houses in Westchester County are now under assessed." 
On the second point, inequity in tax burdens between richer and poorer cities, comparisons are difficult to make, because housing prices and tax rates differ so dramatically. 
One way to compare tax rates, however, is to compare tax bills by using the median sale price of a Westchester home, several experts agreed. 
That price, according to the Westchester Board of Realtors, was $570,000 during the second quarter of this year. Approximate tax bills for a $570,000 home in various municipalities varied widely -- based on figures published online by the Office of Real Property Services of New York State for 2002 at www.orps.state.ny.us. 
A resident of a house worth $570,000 in the low-income city of Mount. Vernon would pay about $14,000 in city and county taxes; in wealthy Bedford, though, the village, school and county tax bill on a home worth that amount would be about $9,000. 
"Richer communities tend to be taxed at lower rates," explained Jerald Benjamin, a dean at the State University of New York in New Paltz and a political scientist who specializes in real property tax issues. "In poorer towns, the base is smaller, so residents are taxed at higher rates," he added.
Mr. Benjamin was appointed to the Real Property Tax Administration System Alliance, a state-supported research group that has been asked to improve New York State's current tax structure, which the organization declared is in dire need of "greater equity and efficiency." 
The property tax problem is partly a result of the lack of oversight by the sate, which does not dictate a uniform percentage of assessed value for all municipalities, like 100 percent or 50 percent, or mandate reassessment every two or three years, as many other states do, Mr. Gaskell said. 
"The state of New York abdicated its responsibility and left each city and town on its own," Mr. Gaskell said. 
As a result, communities like Mount Vernon can choose not to update an 1853 tax roll. The only governing body that can institute a revaluation is Mount Vernon's City Council, said Mr. DeBellis, the Mount Vernon assessor, and the topic has never come up in his 26-year tenure. "Where am I going to find $1.2 million," Mr. DeBellis asked, "and why spend over a million dollars to do something that might hurt a lot of people?"
Westchester County has an extremely inefficient, decentralized system in which at least 25 assessing units impose literally hundreds of different residential property tax rates, a system so convoluted that neither the Westchester County Tax Commissioner nor the state comptroller's office can say for sure how many exist.
The number of jurisdictions in Westchester, and the lack of centralization, leads to inefficiency and expense, experts said. "The more numerous the governmental units, the less efficient and the more expensive the tax system," Mr. Brunori explained. 
Finally, the system is so complex, as well as mysterious, that it becomes almost deliberately deceptive - if you don't understand it, you can't criticize or change it.
In most municipalities in Westchester, a house's assessment is not its full value, but rather a state-mandated fraction of its true value. The only exception is Pelham, with full-value assessments. Thus, a house in Pelham with an assessed value of $570,000 is expected to sell for somewhere around that much. But a $570,000 house in Scarsdale will have an assessed value of about $12,400, because the percent of valuation used there in 2003 was 2.18 percent. 
This fraction is regulated by state law, so that all properties within the city, town or village are assessed at the same percentage of their full value, which must be stated on the property tax bill. These fractions are tied to the date of the last revaluation, so the more recently reassessed municipalities tend to use larger percentages. Homeowners tend to be confused when they see their home assessed at, say $15,000, when they know they can sell it for much, much more.
"Fractional assessment amounts are a way to obscure assessment biases, which are effectively concealed by this method," said Debra Chini Sullivan, a tax lawyer in Syracuse who is a member of the alliance.
The organization's official position is that if a house is worth $570,000, that should be its assessed value -- a method that makes taxes "more transparent, simpler to administer, and easier to explain and justify," according to one of the alliance's principles.
By this measure, then, the fairest taxing locale in Westchester County is Pelham, the only municipality that uses full-value assessments and has annual revaluations. As property values rise, so does nearly every assessment in Pelham, said Michele Casandra, Pelham's assessor. Still, residential property taxes in Pelham tend to be among the highest in the county, in part because the town of 12,000 supports its own school district, and also because the commercial and industrial tax base is so small. 
In addition, realtors and tax officials say, housing prices are slightly lower in Pelham than they are elsewhere in Westchester. Buyers get more house for $570,000 in Pelham than they would in Scarsdale, or other comparable villages, Ms. Casandra said, because the taxes are higher.
Fairness issues do not keep Pelham residents from complaining about their taxes. Property tax assessments are delivered every June in a notice that informs residents that they are free to challenge those taxes based on a procedure that involves seeking the assessments on comparable homes and posting a formal grievance, as mandated by New York State Law. Before revaluation, Pelham residents filed more than 300 grievances a year, but last year there were 189, said Ms. Casandra.
 So far, the only town to follow in Pelham's path is the Town of Rye, which is completing a revaluation, at a cost of nearly $1 million, to assess all 11,000 properties there. The process, initiated by the town supervisor, Robert Morabito, began the day he was first elected, in 1994, he said. 
Having run for re-election in 1999 on a revaluation platform, Mr. Morabito said he is determined that his town's assessments will be fair and equitable, regardless of the political cost. Indeed, he won re-election by a narrow margin earlier this month against a candidate who campaigned vigorously against the reassessment plan.
"We are the only municipality that had the intestinal fortitude to complete the process that we feel will benefit everyone," he said.
The issue is a hard one, agreed Linda G. Cooper, town supervisor of Yorktown, who also won re-election by a small margin against an opponent who took her to task for supporting a county-wide revaluation several years ago. Reassessment "is an easily distorted issue that incites people's fears, and nobody wants to take the political heat," she said.
"If we do a revaluation, the fact that we have high property taxes won't go away," she added. "It will just make the tax rolls more equitable."

How One Town Is Reassessing Property
One way to address inequities in tax assessments is what is being done in the Town of Rye. Town officials hired MJW Consulting Inc. of Flushing to reassess all residential and commercial properties in the almost seven square miles of Rye Brook, Rye Neck and Port Chester, which have a total assessed value of about $6 billion. 
"Our goal is to make sure every single property is treated by the same equitable standard," said the company's president, John M. Watch, who hired 14 employees to complete the nearly three-year-long process of evaluating the 9,900 residential and 1,100 commercial properties. 
It is Mr. Watch's belief that assessors should not have to enter any homes, so as not to bias the process against residents who allowed entry, who were most likely not to have made illegal additions or renovations. Thus, Rye's revaluation was done through extensively detailed exterior observations. The company took aerial photographs of the entire town, from 600 feet and 1,500 feet, in such detail that "you can see the type of car in the driveway," Mr. Watch said. The process produced 1,600 slide images, which Mr. Watch used to corroborate square-footage estimates, for instance, and the number of roof vents, which indicate the number of bathrooms in a house.
Two-person teams also photographed each property from street level at least three times, and answered30 detailed questions about every home. These included, for instance, the type of view from the house, the number of trees on the property, the roofing and siding material, even the number of fireplaces.
About 600 properties in Rye had unreported basement apartments, based on the number of doorbells and mailboxes visible from the street, according to Mr. Watch. In addition, nearly 1,000 properties had undergone significant renovations and additions that were never reported , he said, observations that were confirmed by aerial photographs. By the end of this month, homeowners in Rye will have received a mailing containing detailed information about their home and property, to be followed by a notice that will state the new assessment and the revised tax bill. 
"That's when we get out our flak jackets and our helmets and our earmuffs," Mr. Watch said. 
He expects 25 percent of property owners will see their taxes increase by more than 10 percent; the rest will either go down or remain within 5 percent of the former amount.
By law, homeowners may contest their assessments, and Mr. Watch's company has prepared to handle 4,000 people challenges, he said. If a resident refuses to accept the assessor's information, saying that there is no finished basement, for example, "they have to let us in to verify it, or a change will not be made," Mr. Watch said. Carin Rubenstein

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture of a house in this section last Sunday with an article about tax assessments was published in error. The house, in Yonkers, belonged to a neighbor of Julie and Michael F. Meyer, who challenged their property assessment. The Meyers' home is pictured here.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John M. Watch of MJW Consulting, left, and Michael Mullan, doing a field evaluation review of Port Chester houses. John D'Agnillo's house, above, Julie and Michael F. Meyer's house, top. Both are three-bedroom houses in Yonkers. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Robert Morabito, left, supervisor of the town of Rye and Mitchell Markowitz, town assessor, comb through planning maps, with residential property sales maps on the wall behind them. Below, a shot of computer screen shows different assessment sheets of Rye properties. An aerial view of houses that was taken for tax assessment purposes. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 7) Graph "Westchester's Taxes" lists median house prices and property taxes for counties in Westchester. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PROPERTY TAX (93%); TAX LAW (91%); COUNTIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes

PERSON: Carin Rubenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



368 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Energy Bill Could Upend Lawsuits Over Gasoline Additive 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
The Authors of sweeping energy legislation made public on Saturday said they believed they had assembled a balanced measure that would win Congressional approval, even as the proposal faced new criticism over its benefits to oil companies.
 In a decision that surprised advocacy groups following the measure, a provision protecting producers of a gasoline additive blamed for groundwater contamination was made retroactive to Sept. 5, potentially disrupting a number of actions to recoup cleanup costs that have been filed since then in New York, California, New Hampshire and elsewhere. 
 Robert Gordon, a Manhattan lawyer who has filed some of the cases involving the additive, MTBE, said the bill neutralized the kind of product-defect claim that has been the most successful argument used against the producers. He said he and others were stunned by the Sept. 5 date, saying it would throw into question lawsuits he has filed since then on behalf of 100 local governments and water companies seeking cleanup money.
"It hurts us tremendously and really threatens the ability of any town and village to clean up the mess," Mr. Gordon said. 
The provisions for MTBE, or methyl tertiary butyl ether, were promoted by Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader, and Republican Representatives Billy Tauzin of Louisiana and Joe L. Barton ofTexas. Both states are home to MTBE producers. The MTBE deal was tied to a plan to replace that substance as an additive to make cleaner burning gasoline with corn-based ethanol, which would see its use rise to 5 billion gallons annually by 2012. That ethanol initiative was a top priority of Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, and Midwestern lawmakers of each party.
The MTBE producers argued that they should be protected from liability lawsuits because the federal government promoted the additive as a fuel oxygenate to ease air pollution. Mr. Tauzin said the immunity was carefully tailored so that it did not extend to negligence claims. "Trial lawyers were trying to get into deep pockets," said Mr. Tauzin about the product liability cases.
That MTBE provision is among elements of the first major energy legislation in a decade that are likely to draw opposition this week as the Republican leadership attempts to enact one of President Bush's signature domestic priorities before adjourning.
While they concede that the protection for the additive will anger some lawmakers, backers of the Republican-drafted measure say they believe they have eliminated most of the major policy fights that would threaten the bill.
"We do not think that we have in here the kind of touchstone, litmus-test issues" that would endanger passage, a senior Congressional aide told reporters on Saturday.
The energy proposal also would create an organization to establish and enforce reliability on the power grid. Tax incentives would be provided to spur construction of coal and nuclear power plants. Loan guarantees of $18 billion would be available to build a natural gas pipeline from Alaska to Chicago. Small oil drillers would get tax breaks for pumping oil from marginally producing wells. And, corn growers would find a new market under the ethanol initiative.
The authors say the total direct cost, including tax breaks, would exceed $20 billion over 10 years. The measure also calls for spending tens of billions of dollars on an array of energy projects and programs, though that money would have to be approved in future spending bills. Congressional aides would not quantify the amount, but interest groups say it is at least $58 billion and potentially much more.
To the distress of critics, who see the bill as a collection of special interest provisions and pet projects, it would also allow selected cities to temporarily escape some requirements to reduce air pollution.
The measure has been almost three years in the making but gained new momentum with last summer's blackout. Its text was posted on a Senate Web site at noon on Saturday. That was an effort to comply with a promise by Republicans to give Democrats, who were shut out of House-Senate negotiations over the measure, at least 48 hours to review the plan before a conference committee meeting scheduled for Monday afternoon. It could be on the floor of the House as early as Tuesday.
Immediately after it was posted, industry and environmental organizations around Washington began scrolling through the legislation to determine how it affected their area of interest. Industry representatives, while saying the measure was not perfect, called it a needed step forward that could stimulate investment in the energy sector of the economy.
"There is no doubt that moving electricity policy from an uncertain legislative status to the regulatory arena is a positive development from a financial standpoint," said Lynne H. Church, president of the Electric Power Supply Association.
John B. Walker, chairman of the Independent Petroleum Association of America, said, "The proponents of this agreement should be applauded for recognizing this strategic industry and the needs of the nation."
But conservation and spending watchdog groups were aghast, saying the proposal was even worse than they anticipated with its generous benefits for the energy industry, relaxation of some environmental laws and larger than expected spending on special interest projects.
"The big winner is big oil. The big loser is anyone who breathes, pays a utility bill or drinks water," said Anna Aurilio, legislative director for the United States Public Interest Research Group, which has been fighting new energy legislation since a task force headed by Vice President Dick Cheney issued the Bush administration's energy policy in 2001.
Though the legislation was in the works before the blackout, the bill seeks to reduce the risks of power failures but puts off until at least 2007 a more sweeping electric industry restructuring proposed by federal regulators. It would lead to the creation of new reliability standards, allow voluntary membership in regional transmission organizations and let the federal government set power line routes if state and local governments fail to agree after a year.
"This is going to help a lot," Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said Saturday. "A lot of the hesitancy that has existed on investment has been based on a fear that people would start down the road of building new transmission lines and not be able to get them permitted."
In protecting manufacturers of MTBE, the bill also grants them a possible $2 billion in transition aid to switch from MTBE, an increase over the $800 million they were expected to get. The substance could remain in use until 2015, when it would be banned unless the president intervened.
Democratic Congressional aides were reviewing the measure Saturday, and the prospects for quick approval of the bill perhaps rested on the position Mr. Daschle and others would take. The authors of the measure included a host of projects to try and round up the largest number of votes they could.
For instance, one of the last additions to the bill was a $1 billion program to share more offshore oil and gas revenue with Louisiana and a handful of other coastal states for erosion prevention. The measure also includes language sought by Mr. Daschle and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to make it more difficult for states to seek exemptions from the new ethanol requirements.
The bill seeks to encourage new nuclear power plant development, a longtime priority of Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico and the lead Senate energy negotiator, by providing a production tax credit for the first 6,000 megawatts of new nuclear power to come online, a level aides said could subsidize three or more plants. The measure also extends the law protecting nuclear operators from liability.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham praised the energy bill. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL ADDITIVES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); LITIGATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ETHANOL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); WRITERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); NEGLIGENCE (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy and Power; Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether; Law and Legislation; Suits and Litigation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Liability for Products; Ethanol; Water Pollution; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) Independent Petroleum Assn of America

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Carl Hulse; Tom (Rep) Delay; Joe L (Rep) Barton; Billy (Rep) Tauzin; John B Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; Texas; Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



369 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
To Gauge a Recovery, Count the New Workstations

BYLINE:  By NOAM SCHEIBER

 BODY:
THE attitudes of buyers at an office furniture show in Baltimore a few weeks ago probably won't appear in any forecaster's spreadsheet or on a Wall Street analyst's Bloomberg machine. But as economists struggle to make sense of the current recovery, the show may be among the best indicators around. 
 By all accounts, the strength of the recovery depends on sustained spending by businesses. "Investment carries the burden," said Laurence Meyer, a former Federal Reserve governor. If the recent resurgence in business spending doesn't continue, the economy is unlikely to grow at the rate of 4 to 4.5 percent that is widely forecast for next year. 
 Office furniture is a useful indicator because it is typically one of the last things businesses buy when they begin spending after a recession. "There are higher-priority things than replacing a 10-year-old chair," said Robert Krasa, president and chief executive of Haworth Inc., an office furniture maker in Holland, Mich. If businesses are starting to spend on furniture again, the argument goes, the economy should finally be in the clear. 
 So what was the verdict at the National Exhibition of Contract Furnishings East, or NeoCon East, one of the largest office furniture shows in the country? At first glance, the signs were encouraging. Some 230 companies bought every bit of the 100,000-square-foot exhibition space and attracted at least 7,000 retailers, interior designers and corporate facility managers.
 But while there was plenty of interest, manufacturers at the show complained that there was too much browsing and not enough placing of orders. "They want the literature; they want the pricing," said Lynn Dean, operations manager for the Michela Group, a company that represents several furniture companies. But, she said, when it comes to actual purchases, "It's not as good as it could be." 
 That kind of cautious commentary is nothing new for the office furniture industry, which, like many manufacturing sectors, was caught off guard by the length and depth of the economic problems that began in late 2000. 
 "We thought it might be a six- to nine-month downturn," said Beth Nickels, the chief financial officer at Herman Miller Inc., which is based in Zeeland, Mich., and makes the Aeron chair and other office furniture. "That it'd be easy to ride out." 
 But by May 2001, the industry downturn was shaping up to be much deeper than expected. Some of Herman Miller's biggest customers were hit hard by the collapse of the technology bubble. The company soon found itself having to scale back less profitable product lines and to shrink its labor force -- to 7,000 from 12,000 -- through layoffs, voluntary retirements and outsourcing. 
 The rest of the office furniture industry experienced similar turmoil. According to the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer's Association, a trade group, the industry's sales fell 17 percent in 2001 from the previous year, and an additional 19 percent in 2002. (The group expects industry sales to fall by 5.5 percent in 2003.) "Prior to this period, we had never had more than one consecutive year of decline," said Thomas Reardon, the group's executive director. "None of the previous declines had been double digits."
 Capital spending budgets, which include furniture, began drying up in late 2000, as companies realized that they had far more capacity than potential customers. Business spending fell 15 percent in the second quarter of 2001 from the first quarter, and the economy contracted by nearly 2 percent in that same period. 
 "This was a business investment recession," said Clifford Waldman, an economist at the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a manufacturing advocacy group based in Arlington, Va. 
 Later, companies began laying off employees and eliminating office space -- further denting office furniture sales.
 But spending on office furniture suffered more than overall business spending because of another factor: the used-furniture market. A string of layoffs and bankruptcies created a growing supply of cheap, almost-new furniture just as the downturn was deepening. 
 ONCE before, office furniture shipments proved to be a barometer for the overall economy. In the final quarter of 2002, when the Commerce Department reported the first positive quarter of business investment growth in more than two years -- including a healthy rate of 6 percent in the equipment and software category -- many analysts were beginning to predict a broad economic recovery. 
 Office furniture manufacturers, too, said they believed that a recovery might be just around the corner. "The industry desperately wanted to come out" of the downturn last year, said Chris Hussey, an analyst who follows the office furniture industry for Goldman Sachs. "They felt things were so down, so unprecedented last year at this time, that they should really start to come out of this environment." 
 But a sustained recovery in office furniture never materialized. After growing 4 percent in the third quarter of 2002, furniture shipments fell 6 percent in the fourth quarter. Soon, business spending for the overall economy followed suit, falling 4.4 percent for the first three months of 2003, compared with the previous quarter. Overall economic growth in the first quarter languished at a mere 1.4 percent. 
 This time, economic forecasters are more optimistic. For one thing, the Commerce Department reported in late October that business spending grew by 11 percent in the third quarter this year, compared with the previous quarter, when it grew 7.3 percent. They were the first back-to-back increases in three years, and the third-quarter gain was the largest during that time. In addition, surveys of businesses now consistently report rising confidence among executives as well as increased plans to spend money on equipment and software. The National Federation of Independent Business, which tracks small-business trends, recently reported that the August-September reading of its small-business optimism index reached a 20-year high. 
 The National Association for Business Economics, an organization that surveys large corporations, reported last month that for the second quarter in a row, more of its respondents planned to increase capital spending. In two years' worth of previous surveys, more businesses planned decreases than increases.
 For its part, the office furniture industry has also grown more optimistic, mostly because small- and medium-size companies appear to have begun spending on office furniture again. 
 Some evidence of that recent upturn was on display at NeoCon East. Krug, a Canadian manufacturer of conference tables and cabinets that sells primarily to law firms, banks and insurance companies, felt so optimistic about its recent sales that it spent $10,000 treating 140 of its best customers to a two-and-a-half-hour cruise in Baltimore's Inner Harbor.
 Chris Petrick, director of marketing at Bretford Inc., said orders for the company's Liquid Work Space, a portable adjustable workstation with its own electrical outlet, have been strong, but not to large companies. Although he attributes that to the newness of the workstation, others say an industrywide recovery in office furniture sales to large corporate clients still appears at least a year off.
 Gerry Oppenneer, a product marketing official at Herman Miller, said: "A lot of the bigger guys, our bigger customers, are starting to engage. But it's still tenuous." Even purchases under consideration are not scheduled to be completed until 2005, he said. 
 These comments are consistent with industry reports. Based on anecdotal information, said Mr. Reardon, the trade group executive director, "it's the Fortune 500, the larger companies that are not as aggressive in buying right now."
 Herman Miller and Steelcase Inc., traditionally the companies that have sold to the largest clients, finished the quarter that ended Aug. 30 with sales declines; Herman Miller was down 6.5 percent, and Steelcase by 7.2 percent, both in contrast to the year-earlier period.
 "The average size of our customer -- in terms of their revenue -- has decreased," said Ms. Nickels, at Herman Miller. "We're working more with small to medium-sized companies than Fortune 100 companies."
 The problem for the economy is that major corporations account for roughly half of all business spending. If they are not yet confident enough to spend on office furniture, it is unlikely that they're spending at a very healthy clip over all. But without robust spending by big companies, double-digit growth in business spending is unlikely. That, in turn, would undermine projections of 4 percent economic growth for next year.
 "You're never going to get double-digit growth" in business spending, Mr. Meyer said, "without big firms coming to the party." 
 Still, the mood within the industry is more hopeful than not. The Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer's Association is projecting 2.5 percent growth in sales for next year -- a figure that would end three years of declines.
 MANY economists, like Ethan Harris of Lehman Brothers, argue that even if large businesses are still cautious about their spending, they are at least beginning to replace worn out or obsolete equipment. These so-called replacement purchases can stimulate the economy and prompt further spending down the road. And, of course, improved employment data, announced by the Labor Department earlier this month, could help the economy in general and the office furniture industry in particular. James P. Keane, the chief financial officer of Steelcase, said: "Companies will very soon find themselves competing again for talented employees." He added that the work space has been a tool for that. 
 Mark Falanga, the vice president of Merchandise Mart, the organization that runs NeoCon East, might have best summarized the mood of the industry. The lack of buying in the last year or so makes him believe there will soon be a big spike in sales, but few at the furniture show would actually say so. 
 "Everyone's like, 'I'm not throwing any more predictions out,"' Mr. Falanga said. "'I've been wrong too many times."'

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the office furniture show in Baltimore, the Bretford office system, left, the Mirra chair and a Nexus wiring system revealed by a transparent floor. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times) Chart: "Economic Benchmark"The strength of the economy's recovery may depend on continued growth in spending by businesses. Graphs track quarterly percentage changes at annual rates, seasonally adjusted, for Business fixed investment and Gross domestic product since 1996. (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE FURNITURE (94%); OFFICE DESIGN (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (90%); FURNITURE MFG (89%); OFFICE FURNITURE MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); RECESSION (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); OUTSOURCING (71%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); RETAILERS (64%); FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (50%) Furniture; Sales; United States Economy; Industry Profiles; Gross Domestic Product; Furniture

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (85%); HAWORTH INC (69%); BUSINESS & INSTITUTIONAL FURNITURE CO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (85%); MHR (FRA) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (85%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (85%); NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (85%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (85%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: Noam Scheiber

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



370 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: Yes, It's a Mall, but a Far Cry From the Food Court 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Some New Yorkers will go almost anywhere for a good meal. In the East Village, they have pushed through to Avenues A, B, C and D. They have prowled the blood-spattered sidewalks of the meatpacking district for the latest brasserie, and they have found their way to converted bodegas on the Lower East Side.
 In a few months, however, the city's culinary adventurers will face what may be their steepest test yet. To eat the food of some of the finest chefs working in the United States today, they will have to go to a shopping mall. 
 In early February, if all goes according to plan, the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle at the southwest corner of Central Park will open the doors to a cluster of dining establishments it calls, rather grandly, the Restaurant Collection. 
The developers of the project, Apollo Real Estate Advisors and the Related Companies, are betting heavily that the combined star power of the chefs there will make Columbus Circle, and the $1.7 billion Time Warner towers, the city's premier dining destination.
Situated on two floors of the center's seven-floor retail atrium, the collection comprises five restaurants, each run by a brand-name chef.
The names are imposing. On the fourth floor, Thomas Keller will preside over Per Se, an East Coast version of the French Laundry, his almost mythic restaurant in the Napa Valley.
Jean-Georges Vongerichten, whose flagship restaurant, Jean Georges, is just across Columbus Circle, will run a New York version of Prime, his hugely successful steak house in Las Vegas. His neighbor will be Masa Takayama, a Japanese chef whose dinners at Ginza Sushiko in Beverly Hills ran $250 per person ($300 during blowfish season). Mr. Takayama has closed the California restaurant and will open Asayoshi in the complex, where he will be pleased to serve a $500 dinner. 
One floor down, diners will find two larger, less expensive restaurants, but two instantly recognizable names. Gray Kunz, who lifted Lespinasse, in the St. Regis Hotel, to star status, will run Cafe Gray, a large brasserie with an Eastern European flavor. Last week, Charlie Trotter, the highly acclaimed chef and owner of Charlie Trotter's in Chicago, signed on to open a seafood restaurant.
The restaurateurs, in turn, have signed up A-list designers like Adam Tihany and David Rockwell. Four of the atrium restaurants are scheduled to open simultaneously on Feb. 5 as part of the grand opening of all the retail stores. Mr. Trotter, as the latecomer, said he planned to open in the fall. A sixth restaurant, Asiate, on the 35th floor of the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in the north tower, opened this week.
When all the pieces are in place, New York will have a new restaurant district. This one just happens to be vertical, and created all at once. Whether New Yorkers will take to the idea is the unanswered question.
Kenneth A. Himmel, the president and chief executive of Related Urban Development, the retail-development division of the Related Companies, clearly believes that they will. Mr. Himmel, who developed Water Tower Place in Chicago and Copley Place in Boston, went after star chefs because he has retail space to rent and the developers have condominiums to sell, at breathtaking prices. "No one wants to go up," Mr. Himmel said, referring to retailers. "Everybody wants to be on the street. To get them to go up youhave to offer a tremendous rationale for why they should be there."
Mr. Himmel stalked his restaurateurs determinedly. He offered Mr. Keller a partnership deal with Related and Apollo, guaranteeing the kind of money that would make it possible to install an enormous kitchen with a wood-burning oven and a bread bakery. (Mr. Himmel puts the cost of Per Se, Mr. Keller's restaurant, at more than $12 million. That's more than four times the cost of Rocco's on 22nd, the restaurant in the Flatiron district whose birth pangs were chronicled in the NBC reality series "The Restaurant.")
Mr. Keller was also given a powerful advisory role in selecting the other restaurants in the project, and he used it to lobby for Mr. Takayama. Mr. Vongerichten, too, was offered a partnership deal.

Stars Attract a Star
With the first two stars signed up, Mr. Himmel was in a strong position to attract others, who work under a standard landlord-tenant arrangement. Mr. Kunz said: "With these names, we have almost an insurance policy. If I'd been the sole restaurant, it wouldn't have worked." 
Another insurance policy, as Mr. Himmel tells it, is the nature of the interlocking parts of the atrium, which makes the restaurants a tasty filling between two thick slices of bread. The slice on top is Jazz at Lincoln Center, whose theaters, performance spaces and recording studios, starting on the fifth floor, will guarantee nighttime traffic and well-to-do patrons. 
Below, on the concourse level, Whole Foods will operate a giant food hall modeled after the food halls of London's great department stores.
To help banish the specter of mall-ness, the developers offered an alternative to the atrium escalators. They put an entrance on 60th Street, next to the Mandarin Oriental, with three express elevators nearby leading directly to the restaurants.
Some restaurateurs and industry consultants wonder whether the project will succeed. The look and tone of the atrium and public space could be irresistibly alluring or an appetite-killer. It may, in the end, boil down to how New Yorkers feel about escalators and handbag stores near their restaurants. 
"I'd say expectations are high but vague," said Clark Wolf, a restaurant consultant. "I do think they have enough critical mass for people to go up and visit at least once. That pushes people over the obstacle of going to Columbus Circle and going up to the fourth floor."
In a way, the dismal economy of the last couple of years may help. Although some restaurateurs have grumbled that Time Warner, in a classic instance of bad timing, will dump high-priced tables on a market that cannot absorb them, Mr. Wolf observes that New Yorkers may be more than ready for a thrill. 
"We've had some notable interesting restaurants open in the last couple of years, but nothing spectacular," he said. "This is a big deal. People are going to talk about it."
Local restaurateurs already are. It is hard to ignore a half-dozen high-end restaurants at your doorstep. Terrance Brennan, the chef and owner of Picholine, said he is taking the view that Time Warner will be good for everyone by bringing a lot of excitement and a lot of diners to the area. 
"We might lose a little business in the beginning," he said, "but after that people will come back. We'll just sharpen our knives a little more."
Some restaurateurs, after sniffing around the project in its early stages, developed cold feet. "It's very upscale, but I personally just don't like to be in a mall," said Jeffrey Chodorow, whose restaurants include China Grill and Tuscan, and who recently joined forces with Alain Ducasse to open Mix in New York. "It's hard to bring people into that environment."
Stephen Hanson also balked. "I'd rather step away from that project and feel sorry for myself later if it turns out to be a runaway success," said Mr. Hanson, whose restaurants include Blue Fin and Ruby Foo's, both in the theater district. "By default they'll do good lunch business. But who is the customer at night? To the east I see Central Park, to the immediate west is housing projects. The only way you can go is south, and one thing I've learned operating restaurants in Times Square is that if you are more than two or three blocks away from the theater, you're at a disadvantage."
In dining terms, this is "The Matrix" plus "Lord of the Rings" with a couple of Disney-animated blockbusters thrown in. Opening weekend, so to speak, is more or less guaranteed to be huge.

Six Dining Styles and Milieus
The chefs involved have wisely avoided stepping on one another's toes. Diners will get six distinct dining styles and environments, although some chefs, notably Mr. Trotter, have only begun drawing up their menus. Mr. Himmel said the Trotter restaurant would be a reinterpreted oyster bar, with slight Asian touches. Mr. Trotter will say only that the place, as yet unnamed, will be a seafood restaurant with some sort of raw bar as a component. The main point, for serious diners, is that Mr. Trotter is in charge, and they won't have to fly to Chicago to eat his food.
Mr. Vongerichten said he would, essentially, do what he does at Prime in Las Vegas, bringing a French sensibility and more inventive appetizers and side dishes to a traditional steakhouse repertory of main dishes. His style is worlds apart from the brawny, he-man American steakhouse ideal. 
Mr. Keller, too, does not want to change the ingredients that have routinely put the French Laundry on top of most lists of the best restaurants in the United States. "The vision is the same," he said. "If Derek Jeter were traded to another team, he'd still step up to the plate and swing the same way." Per Se will follow the French Laundry format of serving the same prix fixe tasting menu at seven dinners and three lunches a week, with each meal requiring about three hours to consume. Mr. Takayama will offer an easier entry point to the full-price Takayama experience, setting aside space for a small sake bar with its own menu. 
Mr. Kunz, with an eye on Vienna, Budapest and Prague, said he had in mind a brasserie where customers could come at any time of day. He has a strategy, too. "My target is to get the secretaries upstairs, and hope their bosses will follow," he said. 
Alone and apart, Asiate, a French-Japanese fusion restaurant priced somewhere between the fourth- and third-floor atrium restaurants, has a few months' head start to make an impression on the city's diners. The Mandarin Oriental has placed its faith in Noriyuki Sugie, a young Japanese chef who honed his talents at Charlie Trotter's in Chicago.
He is aiming high, and it is clear that the hotel wants its restaurant to be regarded as an equal to the glamour restaurants in the building next door. Rudy Tauscher, the Mandarin Oriental's general manager, said, "We don't want to be a destination for the views" 
Unlike Mr. Sugie, Mr. Tauscher knows the neighborhood. He was the general manager at the nearby Trump International Hotel and Tower for five years. (The building houses Jean Georges.) He has a few memories that make him smile when people ask why he thinks Columbus Circle could ever be a dining destination.
"Everyone asked, how can you open a restaurant on that side of the park?" he recalled. "There's nothing there." Somehow, diners managed to find their way. "This part of the West Side will reinvent itself, and you'll see a repositioning over the next few years," Mr. Tauscher said. "This is going to be quite a lively spot."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The chefs Gray Kunz, left, and Jean-Georges Vongerichten at the Time Warner towers at Columbus Circle. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "The Players"Six restaurants could make Columbus Circle a premier dining destination. RESTAURANT NAME: PER SECHEF: Thomas KellerCUISINE: New AmericanSIZE: 68 seatsDINNER FOR ONE (APPROX.): $135 RESTAURANT NAME: (Not decided)CHEF: Jean-Georges VongerichtenCUISINE: SteakhouseSIZE: 225 seatsDINNER FOR ONE (APPROX.): $80 - $120 RESTAURANT NAME: ASAYOSHICHEF: Masa TakayamaCUISINE: JapaneseSIZE: 9 seats, sushi barDINNER FOR ONE (APPROX.): $500 RESTAURANT NAME: (Not decided)CHEF: Charlie TrotterCUISINE: SeafoodSIZE: (not decided)DINNER FOR ONE (APPROX.): $70 RESTAURANT NAME: CAFE GRAYCHEF: Gray KunzCUISINE: European brasserieSIZE: 130 seats, dining room; 32 seats, cafe and barDINNER FOR ONE (APPROX.): $55 - $75 RESTAURANT NAME: ASIATECHEF: Noriyuki SugieCUISINE: French-JapaneseSIZE: 90 seatsDINNER FOR ONE (APPROX.): $65 (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RETAILERS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%) Restaurants; Time-Warner Building (NYC); Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: Related Companies; Apollo Real Estate Advisors

PERSON: William Grimes; Thomas Keller; Jean-Georges Vongerichten; Masa Takayama; Charlie Trotter; Gray Kunz; Adam Tihany; David Rockwell; Nori Sugie

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%) New York City; Columbus Circle (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



371 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
For Steel Makers, Musical Chairs

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
IN the summer of 2001, when it started to consider slapping tariffs on imported steel, the Bush administration also showed some interest in negotiating a global reduction in steel-making capacity. 
 The tariffs went into effect, and talk of negotiations is a distant memory. 
 Steel-making remains a fragmented industry. According to Merrill Lynch, the world's top 10 producers account for only 27 percent of global production. 
 Tariffs were intended to give American producers some breathing room. But last week,the World Trade Organization said they were illegal. And the European Union has warned of a possible trade war if President Bush rejects the W.T.O.'s ruling.
 Daniel A. Roling, a steel industry analyst at Merrill Lynch, talked last week about the business. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 

Q. Did the industry need the protection provided by tariffs?

A. The industry was in terrible shape, mainly because of very high levels of imports in the prior years, due in large part to an extremely strong U.S. dollar. If the dollar hadn't risen in value so much, a lot of that foreign steel never would have come here, and that would have allowed for better pricing.

Q. Weren't huge pension fund liabilities, not imports, the real reason so many steel companies got into trouble?

A. There is no question the pension issue is a big issue. But it would have been a manageable issue if the dollar hadn't gotten so strong.

Q. Will a weaker dollar help the steel companies?

A. I don't think the dollar will strengthen much, and a weaker dollar will be very beneficial to the domestic steel industry as long as the American and global economy continues to improve.

Q. By raising the price of imported steel, has the tariff bolstered domestic steel prices?

A. In December of 2001, the official monthly average price was $210 a ton for hot rolled steel. By July of 2002, it was $400 a ton. That was the peak, and prices ended last year at $300 a ton. This year, the full-year average price will come in at about $280 a ton.
 The tepid recovery, and particularly the slowdown in auto production from the peak years in 1999 and 2000, is a big reason the price has softened. Automotive manufacturing is the biggest market for steel.

Q. How much steel-making capacity does this country need?

A. As a nation, we consume about 130 million tons a year. Imports represent about 30 million tons of that. What we need is around 100 million tons of production capacity. Right now we have around 110 million tons of capacity.
 We don't need more than 8 or 10 companies, but we had 20 or 25. Two years ago, there were 22 steel-producing companies in bankruptcy. 
 We need fewer, bigger companies that have the flexibility in their capacity to reduce production in economic downturns, and to increase it in economically strong times. That is what has been lacking here. But I am very optimistic that over the next three to five years we will get to that point. There will be continued consolidation.

Q. Which steel companies will survive?

A. Three of them will be United States Steel; International Steel Group, which is currently a private company; and Nucor. Beyond that, I don't know.

Q. United States Steel is up more than 70 percent this year. Why have the publicly traded steel companies done so well?

A. Anticipation of the economic recovery has been part of it. So is the fact that the industry has consolidated some already, and there is better producer discipline.

Q. Do you like any of the stocks at current prices?

A. I am neutral on Nucor, which is up more than 30 percent this year, because of its valuation. I like the company and what they are doing. But Nucor's costs will be rising because scrap steel prices are rising due to tremendous demand for scrap from China. That is shrinking scrap supply in the United States.
 I like U.S. Steel because of the restructuring they are doing that will unlock value over the next few years. U.S. Steel's costs are not going anywhere because they make steel from coal and iron ore. Also, new labor agreements are working in their favor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel A. Roling, a steel industry analyst at Merrill Lynch, says the strong dollar hurts steel makers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); BONDS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) Steel and Iron; Stocks and Bonds; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; World Trade Organization

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) ROLING, DANIEL A. ; Daniel A Roling

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



372 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
He's the Go-To Guy for Fund Investigators

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
ONE day in late July, the telephone rang in the office of Eric Zitzewitz, a 32-year-0ld assistant professor of strategic management at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. He was busy. A bit distracted, he picked up the phone.
 The caller was David D. Brown IV, a former lawyer at Goldman Sachs who had just started working for Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general. Mr. Brown was investigating improper trading practices in the mutual fund industry and had come across a provocative two-year-old paper by Professor Zitzewitz. It quantified the financial damage that some of these trading practices were inflicting on long-term fund investors -- damages that he estimated at almost $5 billion a year. 
 That short conversation was the prologue to what is turning out to be the most extraordinary year of Professor Zitzewitz's career. 
 The investigation has ripened into a harvest of shame for the mutual fund industry. After his research was cited on Sept. 3 at Mr. Spitzer's first news conference on the mutual fund investigation, Professor Zitzewitz was thrust into the spotlight. He has been summoned for Congressional testimony, quizzed by reporters, consulted by regulators and investigators, and attacked by industry economists who say he is overstating the damages and understating the difficulties of preventing the abuses.
 Talk about right place, right time. As Professor Zitzewitz is the first to emphasize, academic figures with far longer resumes have documented similar problems in mutual fund trading practices for at least four years. (His own resume includes a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard and a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; he is currently teaching at the Columbia Graduate School of Business.)
 Professor Zitzewitz cited 21 articles by other academics, including a groundbreaking 2001 study by Jason T. Greene of Georgia State University and Charles W. Hodges at the State University of West Georgia. Others mentioned in the paper included Roger M. Edelen, formerly of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania; William N. Goetzmann at Yale; and Robert F. Whitelaw, Matthew P. Richardson, Jason Boudoukh and Marti Subrahmanyam, all of New York University.
 All the researchers identified the same phenomenon: because American mutual funds are priced once a day at 4 p.m., their per-share prices may become stale, particularly if they own foreign stocks that trade in European markets that have already closed for the day or in Asian markets, which have not yet reopened. Since a gain today in the American markets tends to indicate a gain tomorrow in those foreign markets, investors can predict, with a high degree of accuracy, what will happen to that mutual fund price when it is revised at 4 p.m. tomorrow. If they can move quickly in and out of that fund, they can capture a share of the profits that would otherwise have belonged to its longer-term investors, whose money actually financed the investments that produced the profits. That basic strategy has been variously described as time-zone or stale-price arbitrage, and its impact on other shareholders is known as dilution. 
 This research spurred little effective response until Mr. Brown, who is now chief of the attorney general's investor protection bureau, began studying it. He had embarked on a crash course in the mysteries of mutual funds, which in his view had become "an open joke" on Wall Street, "a product for people who weren't smart enough" to know that their pockets were being picked by the in-and-out traders.
 Mr. Brown relied on Professor Zitzewitz's bibliography as a syllabus for his own education. "It meant a lot to me to find the validation of what I understood was going on," he added.
 Professor Zitzewitz has not won many fans in the fund industry. He has been accused of having a conflict of interest because he is helping to develop software that would allow funds to keep their prices fresher. One fund industry economist publicly said Professor Zitzewitz had "to torture his data" to produce "spurious" results.
 Mr. Spitzer's revelations, and a growing list of cases from the Securities and Exchange Commission and other state regulators, have already muted some of that criticism. Brian K. Reid, deputy chief economist for the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry trade group, said last week that he does not dispute the professor's core findings: that the trading abuses are occurring widely and are causing real harm to long-term mutual fund investors. Clearly, Mr. Reid said, the industry should have done more to combat these practices.
 But he and several other industry economists nevertheless dispute the accuracy of Professor Zitzewitz's calculations of how much harm long-term shareholders have suffered at the hands of abusive traders.
 Professor Zitzewitz based his study on data on the estimated amount of cash flowing in and out of mutual funds that is collected daily from more than 1,000 funds by TrimTabs.com Investment Research of Santa Rosa, Calif. While researchers generally believe the TrimTabs sample is roughly representative of the larger universe of more than 7,000 mutual funds, it does not include the giants like Fidelity and Vanguard.
 Mr. Reid said he believes that those companies have been more aggressive -- and, most likely, more successful -- in battling abusive trading than others in the TrimTabs sample. To extrapolate damages across the industry from the TrimTabs sample, therefore, might overstate the harm.
 "So the estimate he arrived at for damages -- yes, we have some quibbles with that," Mr. Reid said. "The range of estimates from the various studies is fairly wide, but we don't really know what the answer is. To do it right, you have to have individual account data, and nobody has that yet. We've spent three years trying to build a new shareholder database, but we're not there yet."
 Professor Zitzewitz's credibility nevertheless remains high with Mr. Brown. The attorney general's office has recently moved to acquire the same TrimTabs data that the professor used in his research, according to people consulted about those arrangements. Mr. Brown would not comment on his plans for the data but said he was interested in why the officers of the affected funds, who were supposed to protect their investors, did not do so. Presumably, he intends to use the data to better understand what an alert fund trustee could have known and when he could have known it. 
 The question of why fund companies weren't taking more aggressive steps to prevent costly trading abuses was what first prompted Mr. Brown to call Professor Zitzewitz last summer.
 MR. Brown said that at the time, he was reading the study by Professor Zitzewitz called, "Who Cares About Shareholders? Arbitrage-Proofing Mutual Funds." The professor wrote that he didn't understand why fund companies permitted these abuses to continue, since they clearly hurt fund performance. After citing a few possible explanations, including the fear of legal liability if they adjusted the stale prices on their own, he concluded: "Another possibility, which one would hesitate to even suggest until all others are exhausted, is that fund management company employees directly benefit from allowing arbitrage."
 In Mr. Brown's well-thumbed copy of that study, that sentence is underlined, with a hand-scrawled bracket and a big star in the margin. As Mr. Brown recalls the conversation in July, he referred to that sentence and said, "Eric, I know why that is happening."
 He explained that some mutual fund companies were secretly allowing big hedge fund investors to execute the rapid-fire trades required to exploit those profit opportunities, in violation of the funds' own rules and their public filings with the S.E.C. Their reward was access to the assets the hedge funds deposited with them, which increased their management fees; they also stood to profit from other lucrative relationships with the hedge funds, Mr. Brown said.
 Mr. Brown did not say in that phone call that some fund companies and brokers were even allowing some big investors to conduct their opportunistic trades after hours, an illegal practice known as late trading.
 When revelations about late trading came out in Mr. Spitzer's Sept. 3 news conference, Professor Zitzewitz rushed back to see if he could detect the footprints of those trades in his original data. He wrote that he found "statistically significant evidence of late trading in the international funds of 15 out of 50 fund families in the sample." He also found a dozen cases of suspected late trading in the 96 domestic fund families.
 The financial impact of late trading, he concluded, is much smaller than the harm caused by stale prices. On the other hand, he added in an interview, the abuses linked to stale prices usually raise questions of favoritism and full disclosure, while late trading is patently against the law.
 Some academic researchers who have long been working in the field are surprised by the young economist's sudden high profile. "This is a pretty small group of people," said Professor Whitelaw, co-author of the N.Y.U. paper on a similar theme several years ago. "I'd frankly never heard of the guy until this all came out."
 But he did not dispute the basic findings. In fact, he said, "one of the reasons we didn't get our paper out sooner was that it just seemed like something that everyone already knew and the people in the fund industry knew it long before those of us in academia did." 
 In response to the recent buzz, Professor Zitzewitz was invited to speak at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at N.Y.U. last Thursday evening. After he described his research and said it was important for academics who understood these issues to be part of the policy debate about how to reform the fund industry, a small, raucous installment of that debate broke out in the room. After listening for almost an hour to his guest's discussion of the difficulties involved in keeping fund prices fresh and fund orders honest, Prof. Marco Avellaneda threw up his hands.
 "Why is this such a moralistic issue?" he asked. "Maybe the time of the mutual fund has simply passed, and we should just use other instruments." Which helps explain why Eric Zitzewitz, who disagreed with that prediction, nevertheless may be the mutual fund industry's worst nightmare.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Eric Zitzewitz, a Stanford professor whose research has aided regulators investigating mutual fund scandals, misstated the given name of a New York University professor who has done research on fund pricing. He is Jacob Boudoukh, not Jason.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prof. Eric Zitzewitz put a dollar amount on some of the damages being faced by long-term mutual fund investors. (Photo by Change W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); ETHICS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Research; Securities and Commodities Violations; Ethics; Biographical Information; Computer Software; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (71%) ZITZEWITZ, ERIC PROF. ; Eric (Prof) Zitzewitz; Diana B Henriques

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



373 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Irrelevance Stalks a Post-Watergate Invention

BYLINE:  By GLEN JUSTICE

 BODY:
FOR nearly three decades, the public financing system for presidential campaigns has done the job set out for it in the post-Watergate era: feeding hundreds of millions of dollars in taxpayer money to incumbents, challengers, Republicans, Democrats and third-party candidates while placing a limit on spending.
 This time around, though, it is losing traction, and critics are asking if the system has outlived its usefulness and if American taxpayers want to keep financing it. They also wonder if any change can provide enough resources to enable candidates to compete with those who can raise formidable sums without federal help. 
 These questions have been raised because President Bush, Howard Dean and, on Friday, Senator John Kerry have all decided not to take taxpayer financing in the primaries, abandoning almost $19 million in matching funds offered by the program, as well as its $45 million spending limit. 
The 2004 race will be the first time since the program's debut in 1976 that at least one candidate in each party will be operating outside the system in the primary, free to raise and spend without constraint. All candidates are expected to use public financing in the general election.
While a number of people have declined public money in the past, most often wealthy candidates like Steve Forbes capable of financing their own campaigns, the system's problems have became more acute. In 2000, Mr. Bush became the first Republican nominee to opt out in the primary in favor of raising and spending without limits, using a network of lucrative fund-raisers to gather more than $100 million and creating a model for running a campaign outside the system.
Mr. Bush is repeating the strategy for this election, planning to raise at least $170 million without a primary challenge, a strategy that forced leading Democrats to re-evaluate the program or risk being vastly outspent. Last week, Dr. Dean became the first Democrat to decline taxpayer financing, calling it "a broken system" and declaring instead that he will try to raise $200 million to keep pace with Mr. Bush.
The developments illustrate how the system, which matches individual contributions up to $250 in the primaries, has not kept pace with the realities of campaigning.
One problem is the political calendar, which increasingly includes more primaries earlier in the election. If candidates spend their money to win these primaries, they could run out months before fresh public financing arrives in the summer for the general election.
That is the worry that led Dr. Dean and other Democrats to weigh opting out, fearing a barrage of attack ads from Mr. Bush in those intervening months.
Campaign costs have also grown faster than the rate of inflation, and therefore faster than the required adjustments to the amounts candidates can receive and spend under public financing. Spending by presidential campaigns in the primaries increased fivefold since 1976 to $343 million in the 2000 race.
Advocates say the program has operated successfully for decades, promoting competition and allowing candidates to spend more time campaigning and less time raising money. Indeed, most candidates, including Mr. Bush, Dr. Dean and Mr. Kerry still plan to use it in the general election, when each nominee gets a grant of about $74.4 million, considered adequate for the short period between the conventions and Election Day.
The question is whether the primary financing system can be reshaped to attract candidates capable of raising $200 million or more or give their opponents the resources to compete.
"If the answer is no they can't, the system doesn't make sense," said Michael Toner, a Republican member of the Federal Elections Commission who is a co-author of one plan to overhaul the program.
Campaign finance experts hope legislation will be introduced as early as this year to fix the program for the 2008 elections. Most proposals, which have been offered by public officials and public interest groups, would increase spending limits and the amount candidates can receive.
"You can provide more than enough resources to make it more worthwhile for a candidate to continue in the system," said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, which is advocating one proposal.
Some plans include special provisions that would give candidates additional money if they are facing a privately financed opponent who is willing to spend lavishly. Others would raise spending limits to allow a candidate to keep up.
The Campaign Finance Institute, which studies the campaign finance system, formed a bipartisan task force to recommend changes to the public financing program. Candidates need "an escape hatch" to navigate such situations, it said in a report.
Michael J. Malbin, the institute's executive director, said: "It's not only about the front-runner. It's about making sure the front-runner gets tested."
Yet critics question whether taxpayers will sustain the increases being proposed. The program has been financed by a voluntary check-off on federal income tax returns that diverts $3 of a person's taxes to feed presidential campaigns. The number of people who have paid into the system has fallen to about 11 percent of taxpayers in 2002, from a high of almost 29 percent in 1980 (when the check-off was $1).
Opponents of the program say the decline shows that Americans do not support the system and that an increase in its financing will only speed its demise.
Yet most plans to overhaul the system call for raising the check-off to at least $5. When the amount was increased from $1 to $3 on 1993 tax returns, participation fell by more than four percentage points. Almost five million fewer returns came back with the box checked "yes."
Supporters of the system say that the check-off increase would work and that attrition can be stanched with public outreach. They say that many people do not understand the program, believing that it increases their taxes rather than diverting a portion of those they already pay. Supporters also say that tax preparation software often defaults to check "no."
And many believe that a more effective system might move more taxpayers to check the box.
"The system ought to be about getting more folks to participate," Mr. Malbin said, "not just handing over money."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Changing an Endangered Public Financing System"The recent decisions by Senator John Kerry and Howard Dean to forgo public financing for their presidential campaigns cast the future of the primary system into doubt. Experts say it is underfunded and sets spending limits too low. Below, some proposals for change; all would eliminate the current state-by-state spending limits. CURRENT LAWOVERALL SPENDING LIMITSPrimary election: $44.6 millionGeneral election: $74.4 millionMaximum to candidate from fund: $18.6 millionAmount of tax return check-off*: Federal$3 matching funds per donor: Up to $250, one-to-one PROPOSAL BY TWO F.E.C. COMMISSIONERS+OVERALL SPENDING LIMITSPrimary election: 75 millionGeneral election: No changeMaximum to candidate from fund: $37.5 millionAmount of tax return check-off*: Federal$5 matching funds per donor: Up to $500, one-to-one PROPOSAL BY CAMPAIGN FINANCE INSTITUTEOVERALL SPENDING LIMITSPrimary election: $75 millionGeneral election: No changeMaximum to candidate from fund: $20 millionAmount of tax return check-off*: Federal$5 matching funds per donor: Up to $100, three-to-one PROPOSAL BY DEMOCRACY 21OVERALL SPENDING LIMITSPrimary election: $75 millionGeneral election: No changeMaximum to candidate from fund: UndeterminedAmount of tax return check-off*: Federal$6 matching funds per donor: Up to $250, four-to-one *For married couples filing jointly, amounts are doubled. +Scott E. Thomas, a Democrat, and Michael E. Toner, a Republican.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Glen Justice

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



374 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: A Better Army for Iraq 

BYLINE:  By Dilip Hiro; Dilip Hiro is author of "Secrets and Lies: Operation 'Iraqi Freedom' and After."

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
As President Bush and his aides met frantically this week to discuss speeding up Iraq's transition to democracy, a paradox in the administration's foreign policy became evident. It is the conflict between the occupation's overarching goal -- to build a stable, democratic Iraq -- and the desire to get American troops out of harm's way well before the presidential election next November. 
 However, the solution lies not in the administration's new plan to turn a half-baked mess over to an unelected Governing Council. Rather, the White House should find a way to de-link the events in Iraq from Mr. Bush's electoral strategy. One idea might be to turn day-to-day security operations over to forces that would have popular support of Iraqis, which the American-led coalition troops do not. 
 Some have suggested that the United Nations take over peacekeeping duties, but that is unacceptable to Iraqis. Most of them associate the United Nations with 12 years of economic sanctions that hurt them financially far more than Saddam Hussein. A better idea comes from a poll Zogby International conducted in Iraq in August, which found that 57 percent of respondents would support "Arab forces" providing security in their country. The logical conclusion: leave security up to soldiers from the Arab League. 
The 22-member league has ahistory of peacekeeping missions in Arab countries. In 1961 it dispatched troops -- from Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Sudan -- to Kuwait when that newly independent country was threatened by Iraq. And the league's Arab Deterrent Force, consisting of troops from six countries, served as peacekeepers in Lebanon from 1976 to 1982 (it was only after Israel invaded Lebanon and the league failed to renew its six-month mandate that Syria got deeply embroiled in the Lebanese civil war). Now, with a United Nations mandate, Arab troops would be truly legitimate peacekeepers in Iraq.
The alternative to bringing in new peacekeepers is the Bush administration's plan to accelerate training and arming of Iraqi security personnel. "Iraqification" has the disturbing resonance of "Vietnamization." The perils of haste are evident in the blatant massaging of numbers. In early November, while Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld was saying that 118,000 Iraqis had been trained for police work, the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Richard B. Myers, told reporters that actually only 60,000 Iraqis had been fully trained and equipped, and that the remainder included many guards posted along oil pipelines equipped with nothing more lethal than radios. 
Speeding up the process has already led to a further relaxing of recruitment standards and vetting procedures and increased the chances that remnants of the ousted regime will find themselves in uniform. It has also led to a reduction in training below the current (and insufficient) 12 weeks. Ill-trained recruits have proved trigger-happy, frequently firing on unarmed demonstrators. Such incidents set the scene for bloody feuds along tribal lines which, in the eye-for-an-eye culture of Iraq, could escalate into civil war in the coming months and years.
The Bush administration may not like the idea of turning over part of its "war on terrorism" to Muslim nations. But it must face a fact: America has nothing in common with Iraq or Iraqis. The alienation between the occupier and the occupied extends not only to race, religion, language, and social and tribal mores but also to such basic political values as commitment to democracy. According to the Zogby poll, when asked if "Democracy can work in Iraq," 51 percent responded that "it is a Western way of doing things and will not work here."
One hopes that this attitude will change. But given the current level of distrust, it is all the more important to reassure Iraqis that they will be able to determine their future completely on their own. That means allowing them the time to draft a constitution through a popularly elected assembly -- as the senior Shiite religious leaders keep insisting.
Bringing in Arab League troops to keep the peace may not be what Washington wants to hear. But it may be the most viable way to ease Mr. Bush's campaign worries while ensuring Iraq's long-term stability. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) Election Issues ; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Dilip Hiro; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); LEBANON (93%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EGYPT (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



375 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: GOVERNMENT; 
America's Gamble: Faster Power Shift in Iraq

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
The announcement of a firm date to create an interim Iraqi government and end the formal American occupation -- though not the American military presence -- promises the Iraqis the sovereignty they have clamored for, and offers President Bush the political symbol he needed: the beginnings of an exit strategy that he can explain to American voters.
 But the price of a speedy transfer of power, Mr. Bush's own top aides worry, may be a rapid loss of control -- control over the drafting of a constitution, and over the effort to make democracy flower in a land where it had never been cultivated. Now that Mr. Bush himself has redefined America's mission in Iraq -- from disarming Saddam Hussein to creating "a free and democratic society" that will be a model for the rest of the Middle East -- any plan that grants Iraq its sovereignty before it adopts full-fledged democracy risks derailing that grander mission. 
 "It's a gamble, a huge gamble," one of the most senior architects of Mr. Bush's campaign to oust Saddam Hussein conceded this week, after two days of meetings with L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the American-led occupation authority. "But it's easy to overestimate the degree of control we have over events now," the official said, "and to underestimate how much we will retain."
If the plan succeeds, Mr. Bush could declare an end the formal American occupation of Iraq by early summer, just as the presidential campaign heads into its final and decisive stretch.
But American officials expect that tens of thousands of allied troops will remain at the new government's "invitation," and nobody can predict whether they will still face a violent and deadly insurgency, possibly targeting Iraqi security forces as well. That would make it harder for Mr. Bush to describe the transfer of power to a new government, and the drawing down of American troops, as an unqualified success. 
Aside from its continuing military presence -- the United States will continue to flex its financial muscle as it doles out $20 billion in rebuilding aid and oversees billions more in private investments in the country.
But the combination of an intensifying insurgency and rapidly eroding Iraqi support for the American occupation left President Bush few options but to loosen his grip over the nation that he had conquered and is now trying to rebuild.
So in the past week, an administration that is loath to admit any doubts about the wisdom of its judgments basically rewrote its strategy. 
Administration officials have dismissed critics who suggest that the process might be driven by Mr. Bush's electoral needs, taking pains to portray the new approach as Iraqi-born, initiated by Iraqi leaders out of what Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, called a "clamor" for a faster turnover of power.
Yet until sometime in the past few weeks, Mr. Bremer argued internally that the Iraqis were not ready to assume full authority, and that turning it over before the basic outlines of Iraqi democracy were established would invite chaos, or worse.
During his abruptly scheduled meetings at the White House on Tuesday and Wednesday, Mr. Bremer delivered the news that the fractious Iraqi Governing Council was approaching rebellion over the plan to draft a constitution first and to transfer power only after national elections. It was an approach that was straightforward, logical, deeply rooted in the history of the occupations of Japan and Germany, and untenable on the streets of Baghdad.
"The initial idea was essentially a softer version of the MacArthur approach," one senior official said, referring to how Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who led the seven-year occupation of Japan, drafted the defeated nation's constitution with a pliant, American-installed government.
Mr. Bush's original plan was slightly less imperial than MacArthur's approach, calling for the Iraqis themselves to write the constitution. But all the hard questions -- whether Iraq will be a secular state or an Islamic one, and how to protect the rights of minorities like the Kurds -- would have been vetted closely by the Americans.
The new strategy creates a government before the constitution. It turns power over to Iraqi leaders before there are national elections, and perhaps before it is clear that an interim government formed from town meetings or provincial elections has established legitimacy.
The country would be operating under a basic legal framework -- one expected to set out principles of human rights and equality for all religious sects -- that would have to suffice until a constitution is written. A senior administration official said Saturday afternoon that so far, members of the Governing Council seemed attuned to "values that we hold in common and are very comfortable with." Yet, the rights of minority groups would not yet be constitutionally established. The question of federalism -- the degree to which Baghdad's dictates would apply in the provinces of a stitched-together nation -- would be unsettled. The relationship between Islamic law and national law would still be undefined. 
Mr. Bush's aides insist that even after sovereignty passes to the provisional government, American influence will be strong. The United States military will have the heavy firepower. The $20 billion for reconstruction that Congress has approved will still be under American control, its flow directed to influencing events according to Washington's wishes. The administration will emphasize that American investors will demand independent courts, a secular government and political stability before risking billions reconstructing the Iraqi economy.
"We'll have more levers than you think, and maybe more than the Iraqis think," one senior White House official said this week. 
But if there are lessons in the occupation so far, they boil down to this: It takes less planning to topple a dictator than to build a democracy. The invasion of Iraq was largely in the command of the invaders. The building of a democratic government, by definition, is in the hands of the new electorate and subject to the disruptions of the Baathists and foreign groups whose campaign of terror has seemed to gain strength each month.
Mr. Bush has insisted that it is "inconceivable" that American forces will leave until a stable democracy is established. The question, which no one in the White House will yet answer, is how he will know when that moment has come.

GRAPHIC: Photo: L. Paul Bremer III, head of the American-led occupation in Iraq. (Pool photo by Dusan Vranic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Constitutions; Politics and Government; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



376 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Growing by Leaps (and Matches)

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

DATELINE: RYE 

 BODY:
MARTIN E. FRANKLIN and the Jarden Corporation are not exactly household words, but chances are you have something made by the company in your home.
 Forster toothpicks? A Ball canning jar? Diamond plastic cutlery? Twine, perhaps, or kitchen matches? 
 Mr. Franklin, chairman and chief executive of Jarden, is growing the Rye-based company with these mundane products of everyday life. The seven employees based at the headquarters in a corporate office park off Theodore Fremd Avenue, are juggling an ever increasing number of operations across the country in the odds and ends of everyday life. 
In recent weeks, the company has been making headlines. It was mentioned on the Forbes magazine list of the "The 200 Up and Coming" companies, reported record sales and earnings for the third quarter, and announced a 3-for-2 stock split.
Only by chance is Rye the location for Jarden, which is made up of companies that manufacture in other parts of the country. When he was 15, Mr. Franklin, now 38 years old, moved with his family to the United States from Britain, and they settled in Harrison. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, where he majored in economics and political science, and then after college had a stint in Manhattan. But aside from that, the younger Mr. Franklin has been there ever since and lives just around the corner from his parents.
But if he has stayed in mostly the same place, his business has constantly evolved.
"I spend my time looking for opportunities," he said. 
Mr. Franklin is the youngest child of Roland Franklin, a British merchant banker whose reputation is closely linked with that of the famed corporate raider Sir James Goldsmith. The elder Franklin and Sir Goldsmith collaborated on several hostile takeovers that resulted in the breakup of conglomerates like Crown Zellerbach and Diamond International.
After a brief stint at Rothschild merchant bank after college, the younger Franklin paired with his father for four years of buying and breaking up companies, notably DRG, a $1 billion British paper company, which he sold off in 16 separate transactions. 
So its understandable when companies see him that they might have second thoughts.
The board of Alltrista, a maker of home products, which he began going after in 2000, initially fought his efforts to buy the company.
"The C.E.O. and chairman knew his history," said Robert L. Wood, who was on Alltrista's board at the time and has remained on the board though Mr. Franklin took it over, in the process renaming it Jarden. "He was concerned he would come in and take the company apart and basically try to recover his investment,"
Although Mr. Franklin's approach still involves a touch of the corporate raider as he sets his sights on niche market leaders, the end result is decidedly different. Alltrista provides an example. 
In January 2000, while others were focused on technology and the Internet, he began buying up shares of the company, which makes diverse items like home canning products and the copper-plated zinc used to mint pennies. Although his attempts to buy the company outright were thwarted, the nearly 10 percent share Mr. Franklin and his partners amassed could not be ignored.
They sought two seats on the board and got them, then ultimately used the position to sway the board to Mr. Franklin's side (the company's share price had plummeted 70 percent) leading to an ouster of management and his appointment to head the company.
"It was everything the new economy wasn't." Mr. Franklin said. "Low growth and old brands." 
He quickly moved to shut the headquarters in Indianapolis, eliminating 23 positions and moving the operations to Rye. He also closed a money-losing plastics operation.
Still, the move did not result in an outcry.
"Martin is not your typical C.E.O." said George Chalhoub, a high yield analyst with Deutsch Bank. "He's very financially savvy and very entrepreneurial. He comes in with a very open agenda. He doesn't promise something and then back-stab someone."
Mr. Franklin said he has never counted the number of business deals he has done but estimates that it's about a hundred.
Among the more notable was the $2.3 million purchase of a chain of eye care stores he bought in 1992. He spun that investment into Benson Eyecare and optical products that led to Bolle eyewear and Lumen Technologies. In 1996, he sold Benson for $300 million, selling Lumen in 1998 for $250 million and Bolle in 2000 for $96 million.
Mr. Franklin is married and he and his wife, Julie, have three sons, ages 8, 10 and 12 and an 18-month-old daughter. His office walls are lined with family pictures and with pictures with diverse notables including former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher and the tennis champion Martina Hingis.
And there are the shots of him participating in the grueling Iron Man competitions everywhere from Muncie, Ind., to Hawaii.
He recently raised about $450,000 participating in an Iron Man competition, which included a 2.4-mile swim, a 112-mile bike ride and a 26.2-mile run on Kona, Hawaii. He challenged friends and business associates not only to sponsor him for a dollar a mile, but also to double their donation should he finish the course in less than 13 hours. He finished in 11 hours 45 minutes. 
The money will go to the Harrison Jewish Community Center, he said, for distribution to families affected by suicide bombings in Israel.
"One day it could happen here," he said noting that he was motivated not by religious or political beliefs but because of the random violence. Also, he said, training for such elite competitions as well as deal-making are things he does for himself; the donation of the money, he said was "something less narcissistic." Meanwhile, his business plans for Jarden are also moving quickly. Since acquiring Alltrista, Mr. Franklin has been buying up compatible businesses like Tilia, perhaps best known for its home vacuum packaging product, FoodSaver, to add to the fold. Among the other companies he has acquired are Diamond Brands, which makes toothpicks, kitchen matches and plastic cutlery, and Lehigh Consumer Products, a maker of rope, cord and twine.
Now he and his right hand man, Ian G.H. Ashken, are trying new things. Home canning not up your alley? O.K., almost everyone needs to give gifts. The company has taken its Ball canning jars, filled them with cookie mix, packaged them in sets of three under the White River Farm label. A recent outing on QVC, the television sales show, resulted in $1.2 million in sales.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin E. Franklin is growing Jarden Corporation with products including jars of White River Farms Gourmet Layered Cookie Mixes, Diamond Bamboo Forks, Diamond Braid Poly Ropes and the FoodSaver. (Photos by Jarden Corporation, top; George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); MERCHANT BANKING (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); PAPER & PACKAGING (68%); STOCK SPLITS (68%); PAPER MFG (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (51%) Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: JARDEN CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%) Jarden Corp

TICKER: JAH (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: MARTIN E FRANKLIN (91%); ROBERT L WOOD (58%) Martin E Franklin; Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



377 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: The World: Between Two Continents; 
Schroder Tries to Juggle France and America

BYLINE:  By JOHN VINOCUR; John Vinocur writes about politics and diplomacy for the International Herald Tribune.

 BODY:
CHANCELLOR GERHARD SCHRODER of Germany is coming to the United States this week for an important meeting, but it is not with President Bush. The chancellor will be in New York having dinner with Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Citigroup Inc., and other American investment leaders. The goal is to look comfortable in the halls of American power and ambition. But this presents a conundrum for the German chancellor.
 The game plan in terms of Europe also requires suggesting a certain distance from the Americans. Germany and its continental partner, France, are working to leverage the European Union's power to a level where, in the name of Europe, the Germans and French can look into American eyes from a perch less precarious than last winter's stack of phone books piled on chairs. 
 For Mr. Schroder, the problem is many-sided. A majority of the 25 countries in the enlarged European Union, and especially the new members from the old Soviet bloc, see little to inspire allegiance to, or emulation of, France and Germany, a self-appointed leadership pair that can guarantee neither the continent's economic growth nor its security.
The French president, Jacques Chirac, at least, is consistent with the long course of his country's foreign policy inclination to challenge American leadership. Mr. Schroder, by contrast, won election in 1998 on a promise of maintaining Helmut Kohl's 16 years of serene equidistance between France and the United States while putting things right domestically.
Five years on, Mr. Schroder has become the precedent-breaking chancellor who turned Germany away from the United States in favor of France in the run-up to the war with Iraq. Over the same period, Chancellor Schroder's pledge to transform the ossified German economy imploded, undermining Germany's influence worldwide (and its traditional upper hand in economic relations with France). And Mr. Schroder is going into 2004 with the same 10.5 percent German unemployment rate he pledged to eradicate when he defeated Mr. Kohl.
So, does this amount to a scary drift in German foreign and domestic policy, magnified and complicated by a decade of national economic somnolence?
The answer, in any case, does not merit an automatically happy or stable view of Germany's circumstances. And such wariness is surely what Mr. Schroder wants to dispel when he is in New York to shore up the German-American relationship. (President Bush will be on a state visit to Britain.)
However warm his tone, Mr. Schroder is unlikely to say the words that would disinfect the wound that has opened in relations with the United States since Germany tried, behind France's lead, to impede American policy on Iraq a year ago.
The issue is no longer narrowly Iraq, or Mr. Schroder's rejection of the Bush administration's line on the war or its aftermath. Rather it is Germany's ambiguity about France's vision of Europe as a counterweight or a rival to the United States -- a concept that top French officials have advanced publicly in Moscow and Beijing.
The French doctrine focuses on the idea of "multipolarity," the notion that today's world, with a dominant United States, is certain to evolve into one of competing poles. Mr. Schroder's foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, who will be in Washington early in the week, has said Germany does not want the United States as a rival. But the chancellor, whose office increasingly dominates foreign policy, has never distanced himself specifically from multipolarity a la francaise.
In the same ambiguous manner, the Germans have said that "for the time being" they are against the creation of a separate European Union military planning headquarters outside NATO, a French-inspired plan that American officials describe as the greatest current threat to the alliance's sustainability.
IN recent weeks, strong voices in Germany have told Mr. Schroder he made a serious mistake in allowing the perception to develop that he had turned the country into France's junior partner. Their concern is not primarily the United States, but Germany's place in an expanded European Union -- where most members place their security loyalties with the Americans. These countries powerfully resent Germany and France for asserting their unelected leadership role in Europe. They also suspect that in the long term Germany's desires for European primacy, and French interests in running Europe behind the dray horse of Germany's economy, are far from identical.
Mr. Schroder, as a tactician, may think he can improve relations with "New Europe" and please the Americans by looking more comfortable in New York than Jacques Chirac might. But five years in office have not brought clarity about the chancellor's convictions.
When he lost to Mr. Schroder, Mr. Kohl called his successor a man consistently positioned on the wrong side of history. Yet Mr. Schroder has never paid with lost votes for the positions Mr. Kohl considered most egregious. Before becoming chancellor, Mr. Schroder voted against German reunification, called for a cease-fire during the first gulf war while Iraqi troops were still in Kuwait, backed indefinite postponement of the introduction of the euro, and argued, in opposing American nuclear arms in Europe in the early 1980's, that Leonid I. Brezhnev seemed more intent on peace than the American presidents.
In comparison with foreign policy, Mr. Schroder is likely to be more forthcoming about the state of the German economy when he speaks at a dinner Thursday -- an event held by the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies to honor Mr. Weill.
In trying to get Wall Street to think of Germany as a less sclerotic place to invest, Mr. Schroder's most upbeat story involves a series of polls of German business leaders signaling their belief that the economy is about to improve. The chancellor has also pushed tax cuts and some liberalization of labor market regulations to the edge of passage.
But hard statistics contradict some of the good cheer. Factory production and exports to the United States fell in August. When the German finance ministry looked at its shortfall in tax revenues against its budget last month, it listed the figure as 12.5 billion euros. Two weeks later, the number was 19.1 billion. For the third year running, the country stands in open defiance of the European Union's deficit targets -- a plan for keeping the union's most financially challenged members in line that Germany itself conceived in an almost forgotten past of exemplary economic performance and close partnership with the United States.
However considerable the problems, Mr. Schroder seems to consider this a good time to persuade some American friends to think hopefully and well of Germany again. Whatever his convictions, the tactics, as usual for Mr. Schroder, look smooth and confident.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nick Dewar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); IRAQ WAR (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TRENDS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Union

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SANDY WEILL (72%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; John Vinocur

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (97%); FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%) Germany; Europe; France; Germany

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



378 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: PRESIDENT; 
Bush Visit Spurs Protests Against U.S. In Europe

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
It is the perception in many parts of the world that the Bush administration was redefined on Sept. 11, 2001, by its response to global terrorism, even as a wave of global sympathy engulfed the United States after the attacks. 
 But a more recent moment -- in March 2003 -- has become the real benchmark for many European critics, who contend that the first American airstrikes on Baghdad consumed any residual benevolence toward President Bush after he overrode European objections to the war in Iraq. 
 Mr. Bush is preparing to fly to London for a three-day visit, starting Tuesday night, that has stirred deep and hostile passions here and plans for anti-Bush street protests. Some of that anger has turned to schadenfreude as American forces seem ever more bogged down in a morass that is compared, if only by association, with Vietnam. 
"In a way I even like it that he is now in such big trouble in Iraq," said Torsten Ludge, a 21-year-old physics freshman at Berlin's Technical University, referring to President Bush. "It's a lesson he had to learn. Everybody told him before that he wouldn't succeed in Iraq and he wouldn't listen. Now Bush has to learn it the hard way."
Indeed, some European analysts believe, European misgivings about the Iraq campaign are being vindicated by the continued bloodshed in Iraq and that may produce a different approach from the United States -- if only because a chastened Washington, in the view of some Europeans, has been proved wrong.
"Even the most ideological of figures in the Bush administration are beginning to realize that no power is unlimited," Thierry de Montbrial, director of the French Institute of International Relations, a private policy group, wrote in an article in Le Monde. "Better late than never." 
Other French analysts agreed with Phillipe Gelie, who wrote in Le Figaro, "French ideas are coming back into favor in the United States."
For all that, President Bush remains a lightning rod for scorn and caricature as a bumbling provincial, an insensitive cowboy and worse: in Britain, Steve Bell, a cartoonist for The Guardian, routinely depicts President Bush with simian hands and feet, half man and half ape. "Bush Off," a play on the phrase "push off," a British expression for "shove off," proclaimed a front-page headline in The Mirror. 
"As we would say in Rome," said an Italian jeweler, Sandro Mosciatti, 54, "Bush junior is a 'bullo di periferia,' " a thug from out in the sticks.
It is a matter of debate here whether Europeans have become more anti-American or are venting deep frustrations with President Bush himself.
Timothy Garton-Ash, a scholar of European affairs at Oxford University, said it was clear that anti-Washington sentiment spreads right across the divide between what Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld once characterized as an anti-American, antiwar "old Europe," led by France and Germany, and a new Europe, led by Britain and other nations that supported the war, including Spain and Italy.
"What scares people is Bush's unilateralism," said Javier Noya, a political analyst in Madrid.
Indeed, one recent opinion survey of 7,500 Europeans, conducted on behalf of the European Commission in Brussels, ranked the American leader No. 2, along with Kim Jong Il of North Korea, as a threat to world peace. (Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel ranked No. 1.)
Even in Britain -- by far Washington's staunchest ally in the Iraq war -- thousands of people say they will take to the streets to protest President Bush's state visit here. Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, will stay at Buckingham Palace as guests of Queen Elizabeth II.
Partly, hostility by Britons -- unlike that of some other Europeans -- is colored with a profound resentment that, having sent troops to fight and die in Iraq and having provided unfailing political cover and support, Prime Minister Tony Blair seems to reap so few American rewards for tying his political fortunes to an unpopular alliance with Mr. Bush.
"It is all too clear what Britain has done to advance U.S. foreign policy," said Robin Cook, the former foreign secretary who resigned in protest over the Iraq war. "It is hard to spot what President Bush has done in return to assist British interests."
In an effort to soften the harsh and simplistic contours of his image here, Mr. Bush embarked on an unusual publicity campaign, giving interviews in Washington to two British newspapers and a news agency. He also plans to appear on Sir David Frost's television talk show.
"The president is entitled to a fairer hearing than he has received and to be treated as a politician on his merits rather than be caricatured as a cartoon figure," said an editorial in The Times of London, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation.
The editorial appeared, though, opposite a cartoon showing a confused-looking Mr. Bush in camouflage military gear pondering how the letter X in the phrase "Exit Strategy from Iraq" would look as the X on a ballot for the presidential elections in 2004.
Mr. Bush will find it hard to shake the perception among European critics that he is anything more than a tool of oil interests and a coterie of close, neoconservative advisers and an implacable opponent of many cherished European ideas on the environment, the Middle East and other issues. His frequent allusions to his own Christian faith may not have won friends, either.
"He thinks the same way as Philip II did in the 16th century: as long as we believe in God we're going to win," said Mayte Embuena, a 43-year-old tour guide in Madrid. "He doesn't know anything about history, economics or sociology; he's governing thanks to his faith, his mother's advice and the help of four friends."
Mr. Bush's visit was planned long before the war in Iraq at a time when British sentiments toward Washington were molded by sympathy after the Sept. 11 attacks. Since then, attitudes have changed. In particular, the arguments offered by both Mr. Bush and Mr. Blair to justify the war -- that Iraq had chemical, biological and potential nuclear weapons, that there were links between Iraq and Al Qaeda and that a smooth victory was likely -- have not been borne out for many Europeans.
"If we had found weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, if the transition was going well, what would be the atmosphere around this visit?" Mr. Garton-Ash said. "If things had gone well, if Blair and Bush had been proved right, you wouldn't have had anything like the kind of resistance that you have now."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the French government's effort to stop anti-Semitic violence referred incorrectly to results of a recent opinion survey sponsored by the European Commission. (The error also appeared on Sunday in an article about European attitudes toward President Bush.) Respondents were asked to identify the countries -- not the leaders -- they perceived as the greatest threats to world peace. A majority perceived Israel (not Prime Minister Ariel Sharon) as the greatest threat; the United States and North Korea (not Mr. Bush and the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il) were ranked No. 2.
An article on Nov. 18 about French government efforts to combat an increase in anti-Semitism misstated the result of a recent European Union poll about threats to world peace. (The error also appeared in a correction published on Nov. 19 about both that article and an article on Nov. 16, and in an Op-Ed column on Nov. 13.) The poll showed that 59 percent of respondents regarded Israel as a threat to world peace, a greater percentage than cited any other country. (Other countries mentioned were Iran, North Korea and the United States, each 53 percent; Iraq, 52 percent; Afghanistan, 50 percent; and Pakistan, 48 percent. ) The poll did not find that respondents consider Israel "the greatest" threat.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Torsten Ludge, left, a German physics student, and Mayte Embuena, a Spanish tour guide, are among a cross section of Europeans who share a passionate antipathy to President Bush and the war in Iraq. (Photo by Bernabe Cordon for The New York Times); (Photo by Jan-Peter Boening for The New York Times); Tom Tennant and Husniye Akpinar prepared "Stop Bush" signs for a rally on Thursday in London to protest American policy in Iraq. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times) Chart: "European View of the United States"A poll of 7,500 Europeans in October by EOS Gallup Europe, at the request of the European Commission, listed various countries, including the United States, and asked whether they represented a threat to world peace. Chart shows the following countries percentage who consider the United States a threat to world peace: ItalyGermanyFranceDenmarkPortugalSwedenBritainLuxembourgBelgiumIrelandSpainFinlandAustriaNetherlandsGreece 53% average tied the United States with North Korea and Iran for the second highest percentage of the poll behind Israel (59%) and ahead of Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, Libya, Saudi Arabia, China, India, Russia, Somalia and the European Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%) Public Opinion; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Alan Cowell; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Great Britain; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



379 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE RECONSTRUCTION; 
Militants Are Holding Back Recovery in Central Iraq

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: KUT, Iraq, Nov. 11 

 BODY:
As another relief agency closed its doors in the capital this week, a group of Iraqis and Americans in this city 100 miles southeast of Baghdad poured concrete for the foundation of another elementary school. 
 The moment was not just a measure of the progress that has been made to rebuild this run-down provincial capital but also, increasingly, of what is going undone in Baghdad and in the embattled cities of central Iraq. 
 While a wave of attacks in and around the capital has either chased relief workers out of town or behind high walls, in much of the rest of the country, the huge American-led reconstruction effort is rolling forward. 
The result, increasingly, is a two-tiered rebuilding effort, one proceeding with ease across the south and large sections of the north, and the other, in the so-called Sunni Triangle in central Iraq moving forward with great difficulty. 
The Sunnis largely benefited from Saddam Hussein's rule and have continued to resist the American occupation, making reconstruction, if not impossible, then slow. 
The Kurdish north and Shiite south, on the other hand, suffered decades of repression under Mr. Hussein and have largely welcomed the American effort. 
While the security environment in parts of southern Iraq is by no means uniformly safe, and American officials remain deeply concerned that unrest could spread here, the relief effort is already reversing decades of officially sanctioned neglect, American and British officials say. 
"The big problem is Baghdad, it's so difficult to work," said Andy Bearpark, the director of reconstruction for the Coalition Provisional Authority. "In the other areas, where there are no security concerns, we can go much quicker." 
Mr. Bearpark said the diverging economic trends in Iraq were difficult to quantify, in part because American and British administrators had resisted canceling projects in central Iraq, even if they were stalled. 
Baghdad, despite its troubles, has undergone a substantial facelift since the Americans took over in April. Electricity is flowing regularly through much of the city, and its telephone and water networks have been substantially renovated. 
Still, Mr. Bearpark said, much of the rebuilding work in central Iraq is moving forward haltingly, in part because of the extraordinary measures necessary to protect workers. Extra police have been hired to protect workers repairing telephone and electrical lines, for instance. 
Even such measures are not always enough. Two American civilian contractors working to destroy Iraqi ammunition depots were killed this month when a homemade bomb struck their convoy in Falluja. 
Another factor, Mr. Bearpark said, is that so many relief groups have fled central Iraq that it is increasingly difficult to hire Western relief organizations, which often act as contractors, to carry out the work. Mr. Bearpark estimated that in Baghdad and the surrounding area, the number of expatriate relief workers had dropped by half. 
The exodus of relief workers began with the car bombing of the United Nations headquarters on Aug. 19. In recent weeks, organizations like Save the Children and Doctors Without Borders have evacuated their expatriate staffs from Baghdad. 
This week, the International Committee for the Red Cross, whose headquarters in Baghdad was bombed Oct. 27, announced that it was closing its offices in Basra and in the capital. 
Across Iraq, the north-south dichotomy is easy to spot. In Kut, the city and surrounding areas shine with the recently renovated and the brand new. 
The Kut Secondary School for Boys got a fresh coat of paint, new lighting and windows, and is now waiting for a shipment of new desks and books. Teams of Iraqis, paid $1 a day, shovel filth from the city's reeking open sewers. The Kut School for the Mentally Disabled is being repainted and rewired. 
What is most remarkable, in contrast to Baghdad or Mr. Hussein's former strongholds of Tikrit or Falluja, is the good will openly expressed by the locals. It is that warm feeling, manifested in the peaceful environment, that allows the work to move ahead so easily, officials say. 
In the village of Golan just outside of town, local Iraqi workers mixed concrete and laid bricks for $3 a day to build an elementary school. It will be a modest affair: six classrooms, a teachers' office and a pair of bathrooms. That was more, the villagers say, than they ever got from Mr. Hussein. 
"I will send my own children here," said Juma Agar, a father of five, pausing for a moment.
The construction of Golan's school is being underwritten by the United States government and overseen by Mercy Corps, an American relief organization that acts as a contractor on several American-financed projects in Kut. It is one of 93 projects, worth some $7 million, that the group is overseeing here. 
Officials at Mercy Corps say that their American staff members live in Kut in rented homes without armed guards and move about without protection. 
The deployment of Mercy Corps' resources across Iraq is a good barometer of stability around the country: it has large offices scattered across the south and north; in central Iraq, it has just one, a small office in Baghdad with no expatriate workers. 
In Baghdad, the relief agencies that remain are barricaded behind armed guards and razor wire. Most are now run by Iraqis only. In places like Ramadi and Falluja, the center of the insurgency, activity by relief organizations has all but ceased. 
Kut has its share of problems. A group of Ukrainian soldiers working with the occupation forces recently walked into an ambush in which several were wounded. A pair of relief agencies shut their doors in Kut after the bombings in Baghdad. A fundamentalist Islamic movement led by Moktada al-Sadr, the boisterous Shiite cleric who is calling on the Americans to quit Iraq, appears to be gathering support. 
Yet those problems seemed manageable in the city's Shuhdaa neighborhood recently, as a group of Iraqi men employed by Mercy Corps filled in a fetid swamp that for years had served as a natural drainage point for sewage and other run-off. 
"Let me tell you, I've been asking the government for years to fill in this pit," said Hussein Abid Haabibi, looking out on the backhoes moving back and forth. "This is very good. Very good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi villagers walk in peace through a freshly bulldozed construction site in Golan. In Baghdad, violence has slowed similar rebuilding projects. (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times) Map of Iraq highlighting Kut: There are fewer security concerns in Kut than in central Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); CLOSINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); TRENDS (71%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Kurds; Foreign Aid

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) Dexter Filkins; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



380 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: GOVERNING COUNCIL; 
Iraqis Agree To Move Fast To Establish A Government

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS and JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Buoyed by an American promise of independence by June, Iraqi political leaders on Saturday pledged to quickly organize elections and build a democratic government on the ruins of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship.
 Their announcement, broadcast by satellite television stations across the Arab world, signaled the revival of Iraqi political life after 35 years of one-party rule and the start of a potentially divisive national debate over the shape of the new Iraq. 
 Jalal Talabani, the Kurdish leader who is this month's president of Iraq's interim governing council, said the council would soon broaden its membership and create a provisional government to replace the Iraqi Governing Council by the end of June 2004.
While American and other foreign troops are likely to remain for some time, he added, "the occupation shall end." 
His declaration put a public stamp of approval on a deal worked out between the council members and L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator for Iraq, who had assured the Iraqis on Friday that the Bush administration would accelerate its transfer of power to meet Iraqi demands for sovereignty. 
Mr. Talabani said the council would immediately begin work on establishing the basic parameters of an Iraqi government that would provide for the separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers, and would guarantee equality for Iraq's diverse religious and ethnic groups. 
He said the principles would be incorporated in a "basic law" to be formulated by the end of February. That will start a process that returns control of the country to an Iraqi government in just over six months. After that, Mr. Talabani said, allied military forces would remain in Iraq only as "invited guests." 
A transitional assembly will be selected in the coming months. Members are to include representatives of every geographical, religious and social group in the nation -- meaning it could be quite large. That assembly is to elect the new provisional government in June. 
The transition would end with a national election of a new government chosen by the general public at the end of 2005, based on rules set out in a constitution to be drafted between now and then.
The plan agreed to by Mr. Bremer and the Iraqis would transform the political process initially imposed by the countries that invaded Iraq and overthrew the Hussein government more than seven months ago. 
They had been insisting that the Iraqi council first organize a constitutional convention, hold elections and only then assume control of the country, but changed tactics as American troops in Iraq this month suffered their worst casualties since major combat operations ended. 
With elections on the horizon and a timetable established for creating a provisional government, Iraq's budding political parties should finally come into their own, said Kanan Makiya, an adviser to the council. 
"The way the council was structured, it was just window dressing," he said. "Now, Iraqis will have a sense that they have a real and visible leadership here."
Appointed by Mr. Bremer in July, the council has largely been invisible to most Iraqis, who can see regular televised messages from Mr. Bremer but have seen little of the 24 members individually or as a group. 
The American-led occupation, and the corresponding paralysis in the Governing Council, also weighed on the vast Iraqi public sector. Interim ministers have been named and many bureaucrats have returned to their offices. But the government has been rudderless, officials said, and unable to settle on a direction.
"We're in a rough patch until the constitution," said Ali Allawi, the interim trade minister and a former World Bank official who returned recently to Iraq after 30 years abroad. "The constitution has taken on a life of its own. It is the document that is supposed to resolve all these issues. But I think you'd have to have the wisdom of Solomon to come up with a solution."
The constitution is likely to become a battleground where the relative weight of the country's Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish populations is determined. 
Already some Sunni political leaders have expressed misgivings about calling elections. Although a minority of the population, Sunnis have long dominated the political elite of the country and were particularly favored over the Kurds and the brutally oppressed Shiite majority during the reign of Mr. Hussein.
"Elections, semielections, constitutional committees -- all will work to their benefit," said Nasir Kamil al-Chadirchi, a Sunni council member.
"It's bad when someone tries to impose his opinion on others," he added, speaking earlier this week before the formal announcement of the sovereignty agreement. "Let's not have the majority impose its opinion on the minority."
Leading Shiite parties, have sought to allay any fears among their council colleagues and American officials that they want to create an Iranian-style Islamic state or a rigid theocracy like Saudi Arabia's.
"Iraq is moving toward a free market economy, so no laws can limit what anyone can do in the economic field," said Sheik Jalal Uldin al-Saghir, the representative of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq. "But our program for the constitution is for it to respect the Islamic identity of the Iraqi people," he added. "No law should be passed that contradicts Islamic law in its broad principles." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (77%); RELIGION (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); ETHNICITY (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Politics and Government; Elections; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Constitutions; Television

PERSON: JALAL TALABANI (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) Susan Sachs; Joel Brinkley; Jalal Talabani; L Paul III Bremer

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



381 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: Hope for the Upstate Economy in the Next Wave of Computer Chips 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Workers are still putting the finishing touches on NanoFab 300 South, a futuristic building of blue glass and white steel just erected here.
 The name is geek-speak for a factory that makes microchips on a wafer-thin copper and silicon disc 300 millimeters -- about a foot -- in diameter. It is in keeping with Gov. George E. Pataki's hope that what is going on within the building's immaculate innards will somehow transfigure the moribund and rusting upstate economy into a hive of cutting-edge industry. 
 Next to NanoFab 300 South, a second building is already going up: NanoFab 300 North. As construction workers in hard hats crawl over the structure, welding and hammering, research scientists from the state university, the consortium International Sematech, I.B.M. and Tokyo Electron Limited have begun moving enormous machines into the first building, where they hope the next generation of microscopic computer chips will be born. 
"It's the size of it, the critical mass," says Alain E. Kaloyeros, the center's executive director. "The governor put in place the level of investment that really makes New York unique."
The loss of manufacturing jobs across the northern and western parts of the state has stumped Mr. Pataki and other state leaders for years, and has become a political liability. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who won her campaign in New York in 2000 partly because of the faltering economy upstate, recently announced that she was forming a commission to study the problem.
To a large degree, Mr. Pataki has staked his legacy on what is happening in the buildings here, under a program called Albany NanoTech, and at four other research and development sites across the state.
For three years, he has declared repeatedly that his dream is to turn the old Erie Canal corridor into a place where new technologies are developed and futuristic products made. His aides say Mr. Pataki wants the five state-sponsored research centers -- nonprofit partnerships among the state, universities and private corporations -- not only to make scientific breakthroughs, but also to build prototypes.
What is unusual about the Pataki administration's effort is that the state itself has pledged $620 million for the next five years to help develop technology that could be turned into commercially viable products. In the past, most of the cash for research into chip-making and other scientific advances came from the federal government or the private sector.
"He's way ahead of the curve relative to the other states," said an I.B.M. senior vice president, John E. Kelly III.
It remains a matter of debate whether these gambles will pay off with a large number of jobs anytime soon. Mr. Pataki and his aides hope the new technology developed at the research centers, along with the workers trained there, will lure chip plants and other high-tech manufacturers to the region.
But some analysts say there is always the danger that the businesses will simply take the technology and run, building the products overseas, where labor is cheap and environmental laws weaker. That has been the trend in recent years -- develop technology here but build chip fabrication plants overseas, in places like Taiwan and China, where huge new markets await -- rather than in the United States.
"Where you put that plant has more to do with the cost of building and government incentives than just about anything else," said Kevin Krewell, the senior editor of Microprocessor Report, an industry journal. "Where the technology is developed has little to do with where you actually put the plant."
The governor's aides, however, cite I.B.M. as an exception to that rule. In 2001, I.B.M. built a $2.5 billion chip-fabrication plant at its corporate park in Fishkill, N.Y., after the state provided more than $500,000 in tax incentives, grants and loans.
To attract other chip makers, the administration has already identified seven sites for chip plants, built the preliminary infrastructure and promised to expedite the issuing of all necessary permits.
The chip-making industry is not one that employs large numbers of factory workers with minimal education, analysts point out. Fabrication plants are highly automated and run by engineers. History suggests that the big boost in jobs is more likely to come from the dozens of companies that supply a research and development center with everything from silicon to coffee cups, as well as the ripple effect of small companies that spin off as researchers try to find niche markets.
"You want the spinoff, new companies starting," said Douglas Henton, president of Collaborative Economics, a consulting firm that helped Austin, Tex., and Raleigh, N.C., develop high-tech centers. "That's where you really see the real job impact."
Mr. Henton added, "The immediate impact on jobs may be slow, but the long-term impact may be large."
So far, New York's five research and development centers have created few new jobs. About 350 researchers are working at the center in Albany, but most of them are highly educated transplants from other states. The hope is that about 1,000 people will have jobs there by the summer of 2005, Dr. Kaloyeros said.
Those jobs are being created against a backdrop of anemic job growth across the state. According to the Business Council of New York State, upstate New York has lost one in five manufacturing jobs over the last five years, about 91,000 positions. Total employment has grown very slightly, mostly because of a growth in government jobs and a slight uptick in service industries.
Mr. Pataki has said that the only way to stop the exodus of factory jobs is to develop new industries, which is why he and legislative leaders are putting the state's money on fostering high-tech breakthroughs.
Besides investing $380 million into the Albany research center, the state is spending $110 million to help build a similar center devoted to computerized genetic research in Buffalo. Another $43 million in state money is being used to rehabilitate an old Xerox research plant in Rochester to serve as a center for research into infotonics,the use of light to transmit energy and information.
In Syracuse, $37 million in state aid has been invested for equipment and a building where researchers will perform experiments intended to improve environmental systems, like air-conditioning. The state also plans to invest $50 million in a center on Long Island for research into better wireless communications.
The Albany center for nanoelectronics and the search for computer chips on a molecular scale is much closer to being up and running than the others, state officials say.
"For 20 years we have been providing money for basic research, and the governor wanted to go beyond that," said one of Mr. Pataki's senior policy advisers, Jeffrey Lovell. "We are trying to use the universities as economic engines rather than just having these guys sit back and do their basic research."
Not surprisingly, executives in the semiconductor industry applaud the state's contributions. In fact, Mr. Pataki was named Man of the Year last week by the Semiconductor Industry Association in San Jose, Calif., in the first presentation of the award to an elected official.
"He is functioning as a catalyst to embrace the development of technology in the state," said the association president, George Scalise. "They are making a major investment in the facilities. That is very important, bold and unique in our view."
Other executives said the award came about largely because of lobbying within the trade organization by I.B.M., which has invested $100 million in the Albany NanoTech center. I.B.M. is also a member of International Sematech, a consortium that has put $160 million into a research project at NanoFab and is one of the investors backing Tokyo Electron Limited's research, a $200 million commitment to be matched with $100 million from the state.
Dr. Kaloyeros says the NanoTech research effort is unique in several ways. First, when both buildings are completed next year, the researchers will have more clean-room space -- 60,000 square feet of dustless area for chip fabricating and other work -- than any other university-based research center in the world.
The Albany research center, a subsidiary of the Research Foundation of the State University of New York, has insisted, in its agreements with corporations, that it must own the $300 million of equipment at the center, which means the center itself has control over an assembly line for producing prototypes of the newest generation of chips. As a result, the companies that do research there cannot simply walk away, and university researchers are guaranteed time on the equipment, Dr. Kaloyeros said.
Finally, the center will be operating as a training ground for workers seeking jobs in the chip industry, from engineers to factory workers with two-year associate degrees.
In the end, the success of Mr. Pataki's effort may depend on things out of his control. The technology industry has been in a prolonged downturn and there has not been much new investment in chip plants in the United States in the last three years.
In the last two weeks, however, the semiconductor trade association and other analysts have predicted almost a 20 percent increase in demand for chips next year.
If it happens, the governor is betting the Albany NanoTech facility will be poised to catch the wave.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees at the NanoFab center in Albany at work in a "clean room," or dustless space, where the high-tech chips are produced. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (69%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (67%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Factories and Industrial Plants; Laboratories and Scientific Equipment; Computer Chips; Research

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRON LTD (84%)

TICKER: 8035 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) James C Jr Mckinley; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Albany (NY); New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



382 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
They Support Free Trade, Except in the Case of . . .

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
POLITICAL candidates who stand on the ideological scale between Ralph Nader on the left and Patrick J. Buchanan on the right tend to accept, in the abstract, the conventional view of economists: International trade helps many more people than it hurts. 
 But on the campaign trail, politicians cannot help but be swayed by the fact that people who are harmed by trade expansion have names and faces -- and votes -- and that the people who benefit often do not even know it. 
 This is leading many politicians, including most of the main Democratic candidates for president, to abandon the emphasis on globalization that was a cornerstone of the Clinton presidency.
Free trade is easy to justify when times are good, as they were in the Clinton years. Workers who lost jobs when factories closed often found better ones. But when the economy took a turn for the worse, the theory that more trade would lead to more prosperity began to influence politicians less than workers' real-world concerns about their own jobs. 
The Democratic presidential candidates wrestle with the issue daily. They need support from organized labor, which generally opposes any expansion of trade that might threaten existing jobs.
"I found this to be the most wrenching and agonizing issue I dealt with in my eight years in the White House," said Gene Sperling, a top economic and political strategist in the Clinton White House who was instrumental in developing its free market approach.
The Republicans are not immune to the issue either, as the Bush administration's experience last week with steel tariffs illustrated. 
President Bush presents himself as a committed advocate of free trade. But last year, hoping to strengthen his position in politically crucial steel-producing states like Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the president imposed tariffs that raised the price of imported steel as much as 30 percent.
Last week, the World Trade Organization, the international arbiter of trade laws, ruled that these tariffs were illegal, opening the way to retaliatory sanctions by European countries against American goods unless Mr. Bush relents.
Now, in a hint that the president may reverse course, the White House has let out the word that Mr. Bush's political advisers believe the tariffs may actually have lost the president more support from executives and workers in steel-dependent industries like automobiles than he gained from those in the steel industry. 
A recent study by two trade economists, Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Ben Goodrich, bolsters that view. They calculated that the tariffs might have saved 3,500 steel jobs but might have cost several times that many jobs in industries that buy steel.
Among the Democratic presidential candidates, only Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut continues to emphasize the advantages of removing trade barriers around the world.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri has made a career of opposing trade pacts and of wooing organized labor, and that is one of the main elements of his campaign this year.
And the other main candidates, to one degree or another, say they favor the expansion of trade. This establishes thatthey cannot be called know-nothing protectionists. 
Then come the caveats. They would re-examine existing trade agreements to make sure American workers are not put at a disadvantage. And they would sign no new pacts that did not require trading partners to adopt much stricter standards for workers' rights and environmental protection.
To the unions, these are code words. China, Mexico and the countries in South America, where American factories and jobs might move, are unlikely to adopt the kind of collective bargaining and minimum wage requirements that prevail in the United States and Europe. Nor are they likely to impose the same kind of environmental regulations on their factories. 
Stanley B. Greenberg, who was the pollster for Mr. Clinton in his first presidential campaign and who is unaligned with any current campaign, said he thought this was a politically effective stand.
"It's a tough issue," Mr. Greenberg said. "The public supports trade restrictions by a large majority. But if the candidate seems to be inward-looking, he does less well."
Mr. Gephardt portrays his opponents as Johnnies-come-lately in their qualms about free trade. He notes that he led the fights in Congress against the North American Free Trade Agreement and increased trade with China, and argues that the world needs "fair trade, not just free trade."
Mr. Gephardt had hoped his record on trade would translate into united support from labor unions. Indeed, he has won the endorsement of 21 unions, including the Teamsters and most of the large industrial unions. But his campaign suffered a blow last week when two of the largest unions, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and the Service Employees International Union, announced their endorsement of Howard Dean. 
Because trade has never seriously affected their jobs, the public employees and service workers do not feel the loyalty to Mr. Gephardt that manufacturing workers do. And Dr. Dean, who as governor of Vermont was an advocate of free trade, has turned around and taken positions that approach Mr. Gephardt's in their intensity. 
In a debate in September, Dr. Dean said he had supported trade pacts in the past because "we benefited in Vermont from trade." But campaigning around the country, he said, he saw how "our manufacturing jobs are hemorrhaging" and decided that "we have to go back and revise every single trade agreement."
Mr. Sperling said the challenge for Democrats was to find a way to "embrace the benefits of trade" without allowing "all the downsides to be dumped on the few who are in the wrong industry in the wrong city at the wrong time."
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said he expected the whole calculus of trade as a political issue to change. "It's always been a wedge issue for Democrats and blue-collar workers," he said. But now, he went on, white-collar jobs in banks, telemarketing, software programming and other fields are increasingly moving overseas. And the two regions harmed most by factory closings are the Southeast, a Republican stronghold, and the Midwest, which has several swing states that could decide the presidential election.
"The way this issue is growing all around the country," Mr. Schumer concluded, "I think it could be the sleeper in the election this year."

GRAPHIC: Illustration (Illustration by Stephen Doyle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); IMPORT PRICES (69%); PLANT CLOSINGS (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); PRICE CHANGES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Organized Labor ; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Protectionism (Trade); Public Opinion

PERSON: RALPH NADER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (54%) David E Rosenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003 



383 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: In One Oregon City, Jobless Residents Ask, 'What Recovery?' 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Ore., Nov. 14 

 BODY:
Gloria Hunt has heard the news, all about the nation's apparent economic recovery, about the thousands of new jobs, the upturn, the rosier outlook. Those upbeat bulletins, though, sound to Ms. Hunt like the good fortune of a distant cousin who struck it rich while the rest of the family was still dirt poor. 
 Economic growth has not made its way to this western Oregon city or to Ms. Hunt, 54, who has been laid off three times from three separate troubled industries -- food processing, sheet metal production and a credit card company -- since she moved here 14 years ago. Since her latest layoff, from a credit card company that filed for bankruptcy in March, Ms. Hunt has been looking for work for almost eight months. 
 "I've read the articles," said Ms. Hunt, who frequently attends the so-called networking sessions held twice a week at the local employment help center, which last Monday drew a record 34 jobless people. "But I haven't seen a whole lot of it here. It may be filtering down, but it's not visible at this point." 
Ms. Hunt is one of thousands of jobless people in Linn County, where the unemployment rate has hovered between 8 and 10 percent for the last three years. Even as the Bush administration trumpets the national economic growth spurt of the last two months, the jobless rate here, across Oregon, in the rest of the Pacific Northwest and in several other regions has remained high, with economists saying recovery is months or even years away.
Oregon -- where the unemployment rate in September was 8 percent, the highest in the nation, according to the latest federal data -- is, like dozens of other states, heavily reliant on manufacturing, a sector of the economy that has suffered huge losses in the last year.
But Oregon is not the only state unlikely to see economic recovery soon, experts say. California, with severe budget problems and continuing economic fallout from the high-tech bust, as well as a slew of states from Mississippi to Michigan whose economies have strong ties to manufacturing, are also likely to experience a slower recovery than the East Coast states, said Michael J. Donnelly, a senior economist at Global Insight, a national consulting firm.
Here in Linn County, which calls itself "the grass seed capital of the world" but where cash-poor farmers now find themselves with an overproduction of hard-to-sell grass seed, everything that could have gone wrong on the economic front did.
The situation is so bad in Albany, the county seat with a population of 41,000, that the state-financed local employment help center had to lay off three specialists in July because of Oregon's severe state budget problems. The people who were assisting others in their search for work suddenly found themselves thrust into an unforgiving job market, where one opening can draw as many as 300 desperate applicants.
Timber, the high-tech industry, manufacturing, food processing, prefabricated homes, frozen peas and corn, canned hamburger for the military and customer service for credit card companies -- virtually every economic sector that supplies jobs to this county of 105,000 people in the Willamette Valley went sour at some point over the last decade. And economists say things still look grim.
"I don't think there are any great prospects for Linn County," Mr. Donnelly said. "It's going to take a while for Linn and Oregon in particular to get going."
The state budget crisis that Oregon is grappling with, along with high unemployment, creates an economic double whammy. And the combination makes the job market in places like Albany, a city founded in the mid-1800's by two brothers from Albany, N.Y., deeply discouraging to job seekers.
Oregon had low unemployment at the height of the high-tech boom in the mid-1990's but has, along with Washington and Alaska, persistently ranked at the top for joblessness over the last year.
Fred and Ann Anderson moved to Albany from Southern California 16 years ago. Mr. Anderson had been a long-haul truck driver for 20 years but had a neck injury and was then retrained to work in customer service, he said.
Over the years, after Mr. Anderson, 57, stopped driving trucks, the couple cobbled together a living: he worked full time for an insurance agency and part time at a grocery store; Mrs. Anderson, 56, worked at a laundry and a convenience store. 
Then, in the spring of 2001, a customer service call center opened in Albany. Both the Andersons were hired. But in March, the company running the call center, the Spiegel Group, which owns the Spiegel catalog, filed for bankruptcy, and 190 people, including the Andersons and Ms. Hunt, were laid off from the Albany center. 
The Andersons have looked for work since the layoff. Mr. Anderson said he had applied for about 30 jobs so far. 
He has a part-time job at an insurance company, which he hopes will be full time by the end of the year, but the Andersons have no health insurance and, with retirement only 10 years away, no savings.
Mrs. Anderson is looking for clerical work, but she said she had little hope of finding it. Those jobs, she said, are routinely drawing hundreds of applicants, many with more education and experience than she has. 
"This is the first longtime unemployment I've had," Mr. Anderson said. "I've always worked and now I've got this. But we both have our focus on the Lord -- he is taking care of us. We haven't gone without a meal; we're still in the house."
The Andersons and many other jobless people in Albany said they were concerned that their unemployment benefits, due to run out on Dec. 31, might not be extended. 
Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat from Washington, introduced a bill late last month that would extend unemployment benefits for 26 weeks after Dec. 31 and for 7 more weeks in states with the highest unemployment, including Washington and Oregon. But the bill has been met with resistance by Republicans, who cite the recent reports of economic and employment growth, and has not gone to a vote.
There are some in Albany and Linn County who say they are heartened by the news of national economic growth and hopeful that things here will improve soon. 
And according to data released on Friday by Oregon labor officials -- figures that are not yet reflected in the federal data that shows state-by-state unemployment -- the state's October unemployment rate was 7.6 percent, down four-tenths of a percentage point from September. The national unemployment rate is currently 6 percent, according to the latest federal data.
"If as a country we're adding jobs, then eventually they ought to swing back our way," said Roger Nyquist, a Linn County commissioner who owns a bowling alley here. "It is a reason for hope."
Mr. Nyquist said a new call center was about to open in the same building where the Spiegel center had operated, which could create several hundred new jobs.
But that bit of good news was offset by the announcement this week that a silicon chip company based in Salem, a 25-mile commute from here, was closing two plants, eliminating 620 jobs over the next 12 months. The company, the Sumitomo Mitsubishi Silicon Group, said it would shift production to other plants elsewhere in the country and in Asia.
The Andersons' son-in-law, who had survived one round of layoffs at the company and who recently bought a new home in Lebanon, in Linn County, will now lose his job.
Ms. Hunt, who is divorced, decided after job hunting for four months that she would take a job as a temporary worker for Hewlett-Packard, which has a campus in Corvallis, 10 miles from here, testing new products in the research and development department. 
She had worked at Hewlett-Packard as a full-time temporary employee for six years before the call center opened. She said she took the call center job, even though it meant a small pay cut, because it offered health and retirement benefits.
Ms. Hunt, who says she cannot afford the health insurance plan offered by the temporary agency that employs her, is still looking for permanent work and is considering taking courses to train for a job in the medical field -- the one field, she said, that she thought might not lead her back to another layoff.
"There's always something in medical, right?" she said. "You'll always need medicine.
"You really don't know what can happen," she added. "All you can do is hope and pray and wait it out. You take it one day at a time, just like the alcoholics do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fred and Ann Anderson have both been looking for work since losing their jobs at a call center in March.; Gloria Hunt has been laid off three times since moving to Albany, Ore., 14 years ago. She has been looking for work for almost eight months. (Photographs by Shane Young for The New York Times) Chart/Map: "An Uneven Employment Picture"Unemployment remains high in many areas, particularly the Northwest, but the Southeast and Midwest are showing signs of improvement. Map of the United States tracks average jobless rate (percentage) from October 2002 through September 2003, by county. Graph tracks unemployment over the last decade from 1993 through September 2003.U.S.: 6.1%OREGON: 8.0%GEORGIA: 4.4% (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (75%); COUNTIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (50%) OREGON, USA (98%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (98%) LINN COUNTY (ORE); OREGON

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



384 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Clergy Group to Counter Conservatives 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
In an effort to counter the influence of conservative Christian organizations, a coalition of moderate and liberal religious leaders is starting a political advocacy organization to mobilize voters in opposition to Bush administration policies. 
 The nonprofit organization, the Clergy Leadership Network, plans to formally announce its formation on Friday and will operate from an expressly religious, expressly partisan point of view. The group cannot, under Internal Revenue Service guidelines, endorse political candidates, and it will have no official ties to the Democratic Party. 
 But the driving purpose of the organization, according to its mission statement, is to bring about "sweeping changes -- changes in our nation's political leadership and changes in failing public policies." 
The Rev. Albert M. Pennybacker, of Lexington, Ky., chief executive officer for the organization and the chairman of its national committee, said: "The Christian Right has been very articulate, but they have been exclusive and very judgmental of anyone who doesn't agree with them. People may want to label us the Christian Left. But what we really are about is mainstream issues and truth, and if that makes us left then that shines even more light on the need for a shift in our society."
The organization seeks to counter groups like the Christian Coalition of America and newly influential groups like the Family Research Council and the Traditional Values Coalition. 
There are other liberal religious-based advocacy groups in Washington, like the Interfaith Alliance, a nonprofit group that lobbies Congress on policy issues. But the Clergy Leadership Council will be the first national liberal religious group, its organizers say, whose primary focus is electoral politics and partisan political organizing.
Tony Perkins, a former Louisiana state representative who is president of the Family Research Council, said such an approach could be counterproductive when dealing with churches. 
"Trying to take a purely political message into church communities has not been very successful for either ideological side," said Mr. Perkins, a Republican whose group usually supports Republican initiatives. "We've learned that if you come with a party message you may prevent some people, people who agree with you on some issues, from hearing your message."
The new group's roughly 25-member committee is predominantly composed of Protestant Christians. It includes prominent figures like the Rev. William Sloane Coffin, who was a leader in the Civil Rights movement and the anti-Vietnam War movement, and the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell, former general secretary of the National Council of Churches. The founding group also includes Catholic and Jewish members, and organizers said they hoped to draw Muslim members as well. 
"Clergy have to be careful not to rush in with solutions to big problems, but when they see gross injustice they have an obligation not to be silent," Mr. Coffin said. "The arrogance and self-righteousness of the present administration are very dangerous. And silence by members of the clergy, in the face of such arrogance, is tantamount to betrayal of the Gospel or the Torah or the Koran."
Several of the political group's founders are from Midwestern and Southern states, including Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia, which Mr. Pennybacker called "battleground areas" in which moderate and progressive Christians have been losing their "political voice" to Christian conservatives. 
Like many other religious organizations with political agendas, the group is legally bound to focus on issues, not candidates. The group's tax status as a Section 527 political organization exempts it from rules that affect many other nonprofit religious organizations and political action committees. It can raise unlimited money from an unrestricted pool of donors, provided it discloses its expenditures and income to the Internal Revenue Service.
While it cannot donate money to candidates, it hopes to raise money for advertisements.
The group's list of issues includes the economy, health care and civil liberties, as well as foreign policy issues, and using faith, as stated in its organizational guidelines, as "the lens through which public life is viewed and consequently engaged." Many of the group's members were active in opposing the war in Iraq. 
The group also hopes to have a voice in Washington during policy debates.
In the recent nearly 40-hour debate in the Senate over four of President Bush's judicial nominees, religious-based conservative groups offered running commentary to the news media, suggesting that the nominees were being blocked because of their religious faith. The Clergy Leadership Network, said the Rev. Brenda Bartella Peterson, the group's executive director, will seek to provide alternative opinions in such debates.
Jenny Backus, a Democratic consultant working with the new group, said: "There's been a concerted effort by Christian conservatives to question the faith of people who disagree with their positions in the same way that they question their patriotism. The Clergy Leadership Network will now be the amen corner for people of faith who express disagreement with the administration and the Christian Right." 
The group's issue list includes no mention of hot-button topics like abortion and gay marriage, which have been crucial issues for conservative groups. "Our key issues are people without jobs, people who are hungry, people burying children killed in Iraq." Mr. Pennybacker said. "These are real issues that override flashy talk about sexual orientation."
John Green, a political scientist and director of the Bliss Institute, a research center for the study of grass-roots politics based at the University of Akron, said there were more practical reasons for an organization like the Clergy Leadership Network to avoid divisive issues. 
"In many people's minds the words 'conservative' and 'liberal' are firmly linked with positions on lifestyle issues," Mr. Green said. "Within such a diverse coalition, these clergy undoubtedly have congregations with different views on gay rights and abortion. But they may be able to find common ground on issues like war and peace, social welfare and the need for jobs."
Ms. Peterson is the sole representative of the group working out of its newly leased office space near the Capitol, across from the Democratic National Committee building. The group's organizers acknowledge that they may have an uphill battle in gaining the kind of prominence in Washington that some conservative Christian groups now enjoy. 
"We know it won't be easy," Ms. Peterson said. "But there is an imperative that we be heard." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); LOBBYING (70%); FAMILY (70%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%) CLERGY LEADERSHIP NETWORK 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PENNYBACKER, ALBERT M (REV); COFFIN, WILLIAM SLOANE (REV); CAMPBELL, JOAN BROWN (REV); CLEMETSON, LYNETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (56%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



385 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Okinawans Ask Rumsfeld to Thin Out Troops 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: NAHA, Okinawa, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
The governor of Okinawa petitioned Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on Sunday to reduce or relocate American military bases on this strategic Japanese island, and urged removing large numbers of American marines to reduce crime here.
 In an unusual act of very public diplomacy, the Okinawa government decided that the entire meeting between Mr. Rumsfeld and Gov. Keiichi Inamine would be opened to Japanese and foreign news organizations, assuring that his plea would receive a wide airing. Mr. Rumsfeld's other sessions with Japanese leaders during his two-day visit were held in private. 
 The defense secretary listened to the governor's list of complaints and challenged a number of the assertions, in particular on noise pollution, the level of military training conducted here and the Navy's impact on marine wildlife.
After nearly 40 minutes, Mr. Rumsfeld indicated that it was time to end the discussion. "We've listened," he said politely but firmly. He told his host that American military commanders worldwide "try to assure they can minimize the impact of their presence."
The Pentagon is deep into a review of the American military's global bases, including those here, but Mr. Rumsfeld told the island's local leadership that he was not yet prepared to make final decisions.
In his petition to Mr. Rumsfeld, the Okinawa governor wrote that "incidents and accidents caused by U.S. military personnel, and environmental problems stemming from the bases, have created enormous impacts on people's lives, while the facilities became the outstanding hindrance to urban development and economic promotion."
The people of Okinawa, Mr. Inamine said, "have been shouldering the excessive burden of U.S. bases over long years."
American military officials say there are about 58,500 Americans in the armed services in all of Japan; about 14,000 of them are with the Seventh Fleet, and are often at sea.
But the governor noted that Okinawa is home to the bulk of American forces in Japan. American military officials said about 28,890 American troops, some 17,600 of them marines, were based on the island. 
The Okinawa petition contends that 5,157 crimes were committed between 1972 and last December by American troops, the Pentagon's civilian employees working here or their dependents. Of those, 533 were "heinous crimes such as murder, robbery and sexual assault," the Okinawa government said.
The petition urges the "relocation of training and exercises by U.S. Marine Corps to the sites other than Okinawa, as well as force reduction of U.S. forces stationed on Okinawa." It also advocates "reducing and consolidating the U.S.-occupied facilities and areas."
It asks the American military to take steps to prevent aircraft accidents and calls for the "thorough discipline and education of personnel" to prevent crime. It also asked the Navy to ban low-frequency sonar in waters off Japan.
Mr. Rumsfeld said research into the effects of the sonar has shown "little if any impact on marine mammals," and he countered that the amount of military training on Okinawa and the noise levels "have declined rather than increased." He underlined the strategic location of Okinawa -- it is in easy striking distance of North Korea and China -- and said that because of the American-Japanese military alliance, "this part of the world has seen peace."
Mr. Rumsfeld's delegation was given a copy of the Okinawa petition in advance, and a senior Pentagon official noted that Mr. Inamine's presentation to the defense secretary was less strident than language he used in recent news articles.
Okinawa was the scene of one of the worst battles of World War II, and was administered by the American military until 1972, when it reverted to Japanese rule.
The status of American forces on Okinawa is determined by a treaty between the United States and Japan. Although Japanese defense officials enthusiastically support the American military presence on Okinawa, the government in Tokyo is cognizant of the popular support for Mr. Inamine here.
After spending the dayon Okinawa, Mr. Rumsfeld flew to Seoul on Sunday night for talks that will also include questions concerning American forces in South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); SONAR SYSTEMS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); MURDER (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); WILDLIFE (69%); NOISE POLLUTION (69%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (65%); CITIES (50%) MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: SHANKER, THOM; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); INAMINE, KEIICHI (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KYUSHU, JAPAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%) JAPAN; OKINAWA AND OTHER RYUKYU ISLANDS

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



386 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Says Foreign Terrorists May Be Behind Suicide Blasts 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
An obscure terrorist group linked to Al Qaeda took responsibility on Sunday for the twin truck bombings at two synagogues that killed 23 people and wounded more than 300 here on Saturday. Turkish officials said they had evidence that suicide drivers had carried out the blasts.
 The claim of responsibility was conveyed by Abdel Bari Atwan, the editor of Al-Quds al-Arabi, a London-based Arabic newspaper, in an interview with the Arabic satellite station Al Jazeera. Mr. Atwan said the terrorist group, known as the Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades, had made the claim by e-mail. The group has been linked with Al Qaeda in the past. 
 The group has claimed responsibility for a number of attacks in Iraq in recent months, notably the Aug. 19 truck bombing of the United Nations' Baghdad headquarters and the Oct. 12 car bombing outside a Baghdad hotel used by the Iraqi Governing Council, according to Arabic-language news accounts monitored by the BBC. The group also has claimed responsibility for acts outside Iraq in which no clear evidence of a Qaeda link has been established, including the Aug. 5 bombing in Indonesia, and even the blackouts this summer in the United States and Britain.
While it was impossible Sunday night to confirm any role by the Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades in the synagogue attacks, the speedy claim of responsibility by a non-Turkish group supported the contention by Turkish officials that the bombings were the work of foreign terrorists, possibly from Al Qaeda, rather than any homegrown organization. 
"Our determination to fight terrorism in the international arena continues because this event has international links," the country's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said Sunday. Government officials could not be reached for comment after the Jazeera report.
Earlier Sunday, government officials said the blasts appeared to be suicide attacks using identical Isuzu pickup trucks. According to Turkish television, security cameras at the Beth Israel synagogue in the city's Silsi district captured a truck slowing down in front of the synagogue and a policeman approaching to speed it along before it exploded. The policeman died in the blast.
The two trucks exploded about two minutes and three miles apart, shattering the fronts of the Neve Shalom synagogue, Istanbul's largest and the site of two previous attacks, and the Beth Israel synagogue.
Many people believe the attacks were meant as a warning to Turkey not to continue developing ties with Israel or to integrate further with the West. They worry that Turkey's role as a geopolitical bridge between East and West could draw more violence its way, threatening a economic recovery after decades of ruinous inflation and high unemployment.
"During the cold war threat of Soviet expansion, Germany was on the front line, but now Turkey is the contact point for a number of threats faced by the West," said Ilter Turan, professor of political science at Bilgi University in Istanbul.
Since its creation from the remains of the Ottoman Empire after World War I, Turkey has looked to the West for support in building a modern, secular society on a Western model. But it has also tried to maintain good relations with fellow Muslim countries. It is a member of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It wants to join the European Union, and it was the first Muslim country to establish diplomatic relations with Israel, in 1949.
That position has put it at odds with both sides over the years, most recently with radical Islamic groups who blame it for abolishing the caliphate, or Islamic theocracy, that had existed in some form since the death of the Prophet Muhammad until 1924. Many of the world's most notorious Islamist groups, from the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, to tiny Ansar al-Islam in Iraq, from Hizb ut-Tahrir in Europe to the global Qaeda network have made restoration of the caliphate their goal.
Turkey's relations with Israel have exacerbated those tensions. The two countries' relations include military cooperation and the sharing of intelligence about radical Islamic groups operating in the region. The Israeli foreign minister, Silvan Shalom, arrived in Istanbul on Sunday to tour the blast sites and to show his country's solidarity with Turkey.
"It was a terrorist attack carried out by extremists who don't want to see countries share values of freedom, law, and values of friendship and cooperation," Mr. Shalom said. Israeli intelligence agencies are helping with the investigation.
Some people saw the attacks as a consequence of instability in Iraq. Most Turks opposed the American-led invasion largely because they feared that a war would spread violence throughout the region. As a result, the government resisted Washington's requests earlier this year to allow American troops to enter Iraq from Turkey, despite a huge financial incentive. Last month, Turkey offered to send troops to Iraq, then reversed the decision weeks later. "Whenever there is trouble in Iraq, it has some repercussions on Turkey," said Ismail Cem, a former foreign minister and the leader of the social-democratic New Turkey Party. "This is exactly what happened in previous gulf war."
Violence in Turkey flared after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, and terrorist incidents in the country have increased threefold since the American-led invasion of Iraq in March, Mr. Cem said.
Late Sunday, the scenes of both blasts were illuminated with eerie white light as cleanup crews removed twisted metal and investigators combed the wreckage. Members of Israel's disaster response group, known as ZAKA Rescue and Recovery, had arrived earlier to collect human remains. Sixty-six of the 303 people wounded remained hospitalized, though only a few were reported to be in critical condition.
Sabbath morning services were under way in both houses of worship as well as a bar mitzvah in one. Turkish news reports said, however, that most of the dead were Muslims killed in the narrow street outside the Beth Israel synagogue.
The Anatolian Agency, Turkey's state press service, reported that tissue retrieved from the truck used in one of the explosions belonged to someone of Arab ethnicity and that the bombs were made from a mixture of ammonium nitrate and oil. A director of the national police's criminal evidence office in Istanbul, however, said there had been no conclusive determinations made so far.
Political commentators said the bombings were unlikely to push the government back from cooperation with the West or to coerce the governing Justice and Development Party to return to its Islamist roots. The party was formed by former members of the conservative Islamic Virtue Party three years ago.
Mr. Turan said the governing party would probably distance itself further from conservative Islamic groups to assure a nervous population of its commitment to secular government.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Turkey's foreign minister, Abdullah Gul, right, and his Israeli counterpart, Silvan Shalom, at a news conference yesterday in Istanbul. (Photo by Reuters); Sidika Bostanoglu holds a photo of her son, Bulent, a policeman killed in the blasts, and prays with his wife, right, at his funeral yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press); Turkish police officers on a street strewn with flowers in front of the Neve Shalom synagogue in Istanbul, the scene of a bombing on Saturday. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (94%); BOMBINGS (92%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SUICIDE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); COLD WAR (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); POLITICS (63%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%) TERRORISM; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; JEWS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: BAGHDAD HOTEL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); ABU HAFS AL-MASRI BRIGADES (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) ABU HAFS AL-MASRI BRIGADES; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); UNITED NATIONS; RASHID HOTEL (BAGHDAD) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (57%); ABDULLAH GUL (57%) SMITH, CRAIG S; ATWAN, ABDEL BARI 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) TURKEY (97%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDONESIA (79%) ISTANBUL (TURKEY); ISRAEL; IRAQ; TURKEY; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



387 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Hemisphere Trade Talks in Miami Are Reported to Hit a Bump 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Talks here intended to produce a tariff-reducing agreement for 34 countries in the Western Hemisphere may have already hit a bump: officials from Canada, Chile and several other nations disapprove of an agreement reached between the United States and Brazil to limit the scope of any deal, negotiators said Sunday. 
 Diplomats meeting here said they were hoping to produce a document early this week that would allow trade ministers from throughout the Americas and the Caribbean to agree on the basic premise of advancing discussions toward creating a Free Trade Area of the Americas by early 2005, enabling them to remain on their original schedule. 
 But the deal developed over the last several weeks between the United States and Brazil precluded any resolution on difficult issues like agricultural subsidies, patent protection and government procurement contracts. 
The deal apparently did not sit well with negotiators from elsewhere in the hemisphere. Officials from Canada, Chile and several other nations met Sunday to salvage the original spirit of the negotiations, which began in 1994 with the goal of producing rules valid throughout the Americas on a host of issues. 
Such an outcome, which would essentially extend the framework similar to that of the North American Free Trade Agreement to the rest of the hemisphere, does not appear likely. Several negotiators privately acknowledged that talks throughout the next year or so, including negotiations this week in Miami, were likely to result in the formation of an "F.T.A.A. a la carte," or "F.T.A.A. Light," in the parlance of Brazilian officials, in which countries pick and choose from a buffet of trade issues.
Negotiators from Brazil, which is leading the talks with the United States, sought to play down resistance from other countries to the shared vision their nation had reached with American officials.
Adhemar G. Bahadian, Brazil's lead negotiator, said Sunday that efforts by Canada, Chile and other countries to make the F.T.A.A. more far-reaching were "inconclusive."
Under the agreement between the United States and Brazil, discussions over some difficult topics like agricultural subsidies would shift to the World Trade Organization, leaving the Free Trade Area of the Americas to deliberate issues where a wider consensus could be reached. 
Regis Arslanian, a Brazil's delegate, said negotiators from Brazil and the United States had reached a "common vision" that would allow talks to create the F.T.A.A. to move forward, however watered-down the accord could become.
A shared assessment of the parameters of the F.T.A.A. between the United States and Brazil, South America's largest economy, is expected to avert a collapse of the talks this week along the lines of what happened two months ago in Cancun, Mexico, when a meeting of the World Trade Organization was dissolved amid resistance from developing countries led by Brazil. 
Officials from the office of the United States trade representative insisted Sunday that their ambition was still to create a more profound framework for lowering barriers to trade in the hemisphere. "The United States reaffirmed its strong interest in a comprehensive and ambitious agreement that recognizes the need to address more flexibilities for some countries," said Richard Mills, a spokesman for Robert B. Zoellick, the trade representative. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (54%); PATENTS (54%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OF THE AMERICAS 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA; CHILE; BRAZIL; WESTERN HEMISPHERE

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



388 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: More Consumers Reach Out to Touch the Screen 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
Striding into the airport here one recent afternoon, Kimberly Ward did not so much as glance at the two ticket agents waiting at the counter. Like most of her fellow travelers, she instead claimed an automated check-in terminal, touched its screen a few times, and took the proferred boarding pass with a quick smile of thanks. 
 Ms. Ward, 37, pays for gas only at the pump. She shops at Marsh, a supermarket in her neighborhood that has machines that let customers scan, bag and pay for groceries themselves. Her favorite bank teller is her A.T.M. 
 Dealing with humans in such situations "just slows you down," she says. "This is a lot more convenient." 
A new generation of self-service machines is slipping into the daily lives of many Americans. Rejected for decades as too complicated, the machines are being embraced by a public whose faith in technology has grown as its satisfaction with more traditional forms of customer service has diminished. Faced with the alternative -- live people -- it seems that many consumers now prefer the machines.
"The main thing is you don't want to deal with the cashiers and their attitudes," said Dexter Thomas, 37, bagging his own pizza rolls and Eggos in a self-checkout lane at Pathmark store in downtown Brooklyn this month. "That's why people come to this line."
Soon they may have little choice. Eager to save money on labor costs, businesses are stepping up the pace of automation. Nearly 13,000 self- checkout systems will have been installed in American retail stores like Kroger and Home Depot by the end of this year, more than double the number in 2001, according to the market research firm IDC. Delta Air Lines spent millions of dollars this year to line 81 airports with chest-high automated kiosks: 22 million of its passengers -- 40 percent of the total -- checked in by touch-screen this year, up from 350,000 in 2001.
Fast food restaurants like Jack in the Box and McDonald's are experimenting with automated ordering stations that executives say have reduced lines and the need to order from a human being. "Skiosks" dispense lift tickets at several Colorado ski resorts. Urged on by theater advertising, millions of moviegoers now buy tickets from one computer by phone and pluck them from another at the theater, though eye contact is sometimes still necessary to gain admission.
The sudden influx of the machines, which still look and sound like the souped-up PC's that they mostly are, heralds what economists see as the eventual roboticization of large chunks of the service sector. In a standard economic paradox, they are already beginning to both eliminate jobs and increase productivity. 
But their arrival is also prompting a retooling of people's reliance on machines, and each other. Celebrated for their convenience, the devices appeal to an antisocial impulse that critics find troubling. 
"The question we should be talking about is not how much faster do you get your chicken if you go through a kiosk," said Sherry Turkle, a psychologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies human interactions with digital devices. "The question is, 'What is it doing to our social world when we deploy this technology to all these parts of the life cycle?' "
For many Americans, however, chicken check-out speed turns out to be quite the burning question. Marcia Boone, 62, said she has been using self check-out ever since it was installed in her local grocery store earlier this year. She has become so good at it that she sometimes chooses to go through the steps in Spanish, just for the challenge.
"You eliminate a step," explains Mrs. Boone. "Even in our express lane with a regular checker, they run it through and then it's sitting on the counter, and then they bag it. Whereas I run it through and then I bag it right away."
A self-described "people person," Mrs. Boone, of Talleyville, Del., says she now talks back to the machine. "After you scan, if you don't put it into the bag fast enough, it will say. 'Please put the item in the bag,' and I'll say, 'I'm getting there, I'm getting there,' " she said. 
The growth of self-service machines, experts and users say, is partly a result of improvements in the technology since the early days of automated teller machines, which were much slower to catch on. Now more R2D2 than Darth Vader, most of today's kiosks have shed their hulking shells. Grubby number pads and monochrome displays have been replaced with brightly colored touch-screens that respond instantly -- and help foster a trust in the technology that mere mortals may never again command.
"If we asked people even a few years ago which would be more likely to make a mistake, an A.T.M. or a cashier, they would say the A.T.M.," said Clifford Nass, a professor of communication at Stanford University. "Now people would say the cashier. That's an amazing change."
But for many of those who declined to use similar technology in similar places when it was repeatedly tried over the last 20 years, the main appeal of the machines is the chance to avoid what they say are increasingly frequent frustrating, hostile or guilt-inducing interactions with service workers.
"They always get mad at me at Amtrak," said Megan Lesser, 26, of Brooklyn, who prefers to discuss schedules with Julie, the train company's voice-activated phone service, and buy her tickets at the electronic kiosks in Pennsylvania Station. "They say I have the wrong card, or if you go up to the window too fast, they're like, 'You have to get back in line and wait until someone calls you.' "
Critics say the machines may also provide an all-too-easy escape from social interactions across class lines that may prompt some shoppers to wonder uncomfortably if a minimum-wage cashier has health insurance, or lead an employee to respond angrily to a customer. But some weary consumers say they would just prefer to serve themselves.
Brian Southard, 30, of San Diego said employees at his local supermarket make him feel like it is an inconvenience for them when he shops there. He prefers kiosks at airports and was thrilled to find them installed recently at his Home Depot.
"I like people, but if someone's having a bad day and you get that wave of negativity, it can impact my day, too," said Mr. Southard.
Machines have been displacing people since well before the Luddites began smashing them at the dawn of the Industrial Revolution. But economists say this is the first time computers have been flexible enough to automate a broad range of skills, including cognitive ones, that previously required complex interaction with people.
"The types of jobs now amenable to displacement by technology is really something we haven't seen before, said David Autor, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "If you don't have one of those jobs, you're a beneficiary, because the lines are shorter and your airline ticket price won't go up as fast. But it's going to have a significant impact on the people in these jobs now."
Businesses insist that they are not using machines as a direct substitute for human labor, but plan instead to compete by improving their service over all. But union representatives say jobs have already been lost as a direct result of the kiosks, and they say that the machines are causing perceptions of customer service to decline.
Airline employees say they often have to soothe passengers after a frustrating kiosk encounter. Twenty-five percent of the riders surveyed by New York City Transit recently said they had had a problem with the city's recently installed MetroCard machines, which now handle more than half of all sales.
Navigating a Delta kiosk for the first time at the Indianapolis airport, Cathie Franklin, 52, yearned for the days when someone else at least pretended to be happy to press the buttons for her. "I deal with computers all day at work," said Mrs. Franklin. "I don't want to have to deal with them when I'm traveling on vacation."
Many service employees are now being told to train people to use the technology that will ultimately replace them.
"The managers tell our people to tell customers to use those machines," said Bobby DePace, president of District 143 of the Machinists Union, which he said had already lost jobs at Northwest Airlines directly as a result of the kiosks. "If you don't tell them to use the machines, you're going to be disciplined."
Driving the corporate embrace of machines is some basic math. A typical airline kiosk costs less than $10,000, said Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline industry consultant in Port Washington, compared with a salary for a customer service agent of $20,000 to $40,000, plus benefits. Self- checkout systems pay for their $80,000 price tags after about 15 months, and then the average cost of a transaction to the retailer is cut nearly in half because of labor cost savings.
"Self-service machines never call in sick," said Greg Buzek, president of the IHL Consulting Group, a retail technology research firm. "You don't have to worry about scheduling issues. You don't have to worry about vacations."
Then there are the things you do have to worry about.
One morning this month, Luciano Guerreiro of Manhattan deposited a $100 bill in a machine at the 23rd Street C/E subway station for a $20 MetroCard, only to discover that it would not give him the change. The clerk in the booth listened sympathetically as Mr. Guerreiro explained at high volume what had happened.
"I'm sorry," the clerk said, giving him a number to call. "Once you use the machine, I can't help you."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Self-service machines like this scanner at a New Brunswick, N.J., Shop-Rite are becoming more common. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Many supermarket customers say they like to use self-service checkout lanes like this one in a Shop-Rite store in New Brunswick, N.J., because they can move through the line and pay for their food more quickly. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); RESORTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (64%); SKIING FACILITIES (60%); SKIING (60%) AUTOMATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ROBOTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; POINT-OF-SALE TERMINALS; SELF-SERVICE; AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES; BANKS AND BANKING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; FOOD; SUPERMARKETS 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); JACK IN THE BOX INC (52%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (53%); JACK (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



389 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Love in the Time of Benzene 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
In the power corridors of Silicon Valley, Amanda Hawes and Ted Smith could be called the antipower couple. Theirs is a marriage of common crusades against some of the region's biggest companies. 
 In a trial widely followed in the valley, Ms. Hawes, a lawyer who specializes in occupational health cases, is helping to represent two retired I.B.M. electronics factory workers who say they have cancer because the company knowingly exposed them to hazardous chemicals. Her husband, Mr. Smith, who is also a lawyer, founded the nonprofit Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition more than two decades ago and has been one of the valley's most dogged environmental activist ever since. 
 Whether in this trial, or in any number of other cases that one or the other of the couple has been involved with over the years, the Smith-Hawes view of the manufacturing processes in Silicon Valley might be simply stated: The places where chips, circuit boards and hard disks are made may be known as clean rooms, but that does not mean they are necessarily safe places to work. 
In this region where so much of the economy depends on designing or making electronics, the couple's activism has not made them universally popular. Married 29 years, Ms. Hawes, who is 60, and Mr. Smith, 58, are established residents of the valley, having sent their three children, now grown, through San Jose public schools and having taken their places alongside their neighbors at many a children's soccer game over the years. (One of their children, Kyle Smith, 25, is now a professional soccer player with the Seattle Sounders.)
But they say that, especially during the 1980's, they were careful never to mention their children outside of their circle of friends or to give out their home address. Mr. Smith says the family has received threatening phone calls and mail, and both his home and office have been vandalized. "It's the nature of the beast," he said, "and what happens to people who stick their necks out."
Executives in the chip industry tend to resent and dispute the couple's accusations that the industry has compromised the health and safety of workers. Many maintain that Mr. Smith simply does not know enough about how semiconductor manufacturing works to be making such claims. 
"It's ludicrous for someone to say we've been irresponsible with our workers," said Jeff Weir, a spokesman for the National Semiconductor Corporation, who worked for the Semiconductor Industry Association in the 1990's. "I think it's injurious to the industry and irresponsible."
He added: "Where did Ted Smith get his information about chip companies? I don't think he has any."
And some people in the chip industry have questioned the propriety of the couple's professional relationship, with Mr. Smith's nonprofit group sending business to Ms. Hawes's firm, a criticism Mr. Smith describes as yet another effort to discredit their work. 
For Ms. Hawes, the I.B.M. case is the culmination of years of preparation. The trial is being closely watched by the local and national media, and has even received attention in Europe, where workers in Scotland have filed a similar suit against National Semiconductor. Legal experts say an outcome in favor of the I.B.M. workers would very likely lead to other liability suits throughout the industry. 
Although Ms. Hawes's law partner, Richard Alexander, is the courtroom litigator, they spent months jointly preparing for the case, and she has been with him at the plaintiffs' table each day since the trial opened on Nov. 5 in Santa Clara County Superior Court.
In its defense, I.B.M. is arguing that the workers' illnesses could have been caused by many factors other than chemical exposure at work, and that the company did not conceal any information from the employees. 
So far, the jury of 11 women and one man has heard testimony from the retirees, James Moore and Alida Hernandez, and I.B.M.'s lead lawyer, Robert Weber, has nearly finished his cross examination. 
As for Mr. Smith, whose campaigns have helped earn Santa Clara County the distinction of being the home of more federally designated Superfund toxic cleanup sites than any other county in the United States, his coalition is now confronting the computer industry over the nation's growing accumulation of discarded computer equipment. 
The group is calling for more and safer recycling programs. Last spring, the coalition was instrumental in Dell's decision to stop using prison labor in its recycling program. Mr. Smith's group had said that the workers were exposed to hazardous materials and that the PC industry needed a more formal, long-term approach to recycling. 
Those who worry about toxic chemicals see the business of Silicon Valley as being fraught with peril. To make a single six-inch-wide silicon wafer disk requires 20 pounds of chemicals, 22 cubic feet of hazardous gases and 2,275 gallons of water, according to Mr. Smith's coalition, and the byproducts include 7 gallons of hazardous waste.
Likewise, computer manufacturing typically involves as many as 1,000 different materials, many of which are toxic, according to the coalition. Too little is known, Mr. Smith says, about the hundreds of chemicals used in the industry -- a problem he says is compounded as more electronics manufacturing moves to foreign countries where economics often overshadows environmental issues. 
Mr. Smith and Ms. Hawes have been confronting big business their entire careers, although the corporate targets were different when they met nearly 30 years ago -- she a recent graduate of Harvard Law School, he of Stanford Law School. Back then Santa Clara County was primarily agricultural and known affectionately as the Valley of Heart's Desire. It was perhaps the perfect setting for two idealistic young lawyers, who had taken up the cause of cannery workers, to fall in love and get married. 
As the technology foundries of the nascent semiconductor industry began to replace the canneries in the early 1970's, Ms. Hawes founded the Santa Clara Center for Occupational Safety and Health. Soon, she said, she began meeting electronics workers with signs of chemical sensitivity, including skin rashes. 
"It was very discouraging," she said, "to find how few legal options there were for people who endanger themselves at their jobs." 
As more technology companies began sprouting up around residential neighborhoods in San Jose, Mountain View and other towns, the potential environmental effects became a topic of public discussion. 
One galvanizing event was the discovery in 1982 that an underground tank at Fairchild Semiconductor in San Jose was leaking industrial solvents into the ground water. Living in San Jose with three children, the youngest only a year old, the couple's concerns were as personal as they were political.
"Suddenly, overnight, people said, "Oh, my God, this could be my drinking water,"' recalled Mr. Smith, who was working at a small private law firm at the time.
Mr. Smith recalls his first meeting with officials of the Environmental Protection Agency, where he presented his findings and public petitions seeking action on ground water contamination.
"They looked stunned," Mr. Smith said. "They'd apparently bought into the 'clean industry' myth, like the rest of them." 
The E.P.A. responded and began designating pollution sites throughout Silicon Valley as so-called Superfund sites -- polluted areas eligible for federally financed cleanup. The valley now has 29 Superfund sites. 
"I thought at the time it would be a short-term thing and I would go back to practicing law," Mr. Smith said. Instead, his effort, which led to the formation of the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition in 1982, has continued, and his is considered perhaps the loudest voice on the region's environmental issues.
"Ted would be the first person anyone would call," said James Puckett, founder of the Basel Action Network, an environmental group in Seattle that has worked closely with Mr. Smith's on toxic waste issues. "He takes a hard line without being shrill."
Mr. Smith says that the technology industry has recently been much more attuned to environmental issues. Relationships that used to be adversarial have turned more collegial, he said. "They've finally realized that it's cheaper to prevent pollution than clean it up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted Smith and Amanda Hawes have spent years working on environmental and health issues in Silicon Valley. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); AROMATICS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); BENZENE (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); CHILDREN (86%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (76%); CLEANROOMS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VANDALISM (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); SOCCER (69%); ATHLETES (64%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (55%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; CANCER; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (80%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; SILICON VALLEY TOXICS COALITION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (80%)

PERSON: HAWES, AMANDA; FLYNN, LAURIE J; SMITH, TED 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



390 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Bond Offerings For the Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and a four-week bill on Tuesday.
 By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.92 percent. A six-month bill was 1.00 percent, and a four-week bill was 0.88 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TUESDAY
Davis County Board of Education, Utah, $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Hampton Roads, Va., $56.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Nashville, , $128.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
Carmel, Ind., 2002 school building, $72.1 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Cobb County, Ga., $100 million of water and sewer revenue bonds. Competitive.
North Carolina Highway, $400 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
California Statewide Communities Development Authority, $85 million of revenue bonds. E.J. De La Rosa.
Chicago O'Hare Airport, $146 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Commerce, Calif., joint powers financing authority, $51.9 million of revenue bonds. E.J. De La Rosa & Co.
Memphis, Tenn., Electric System, $1.3 billion of subordinate revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Connecticut special tax, $200 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
DeKalb County, Ga., $184.6 million of water and sewer refunding revenue bonds. UBS.
Douglas County School District 0001, $172.1 million of general obligation bonds for Omaha public schools. Ameritas Investment.
Harris County, Tex., $375 million of refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Kansas Department of Transportation, $250 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Manchester, N.H., $86 million of general obligation bonds. Bear, Stearns.
Maricopa County Public Finance Corp., $50 million of lease revenue refunding bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Maryland Community Development Authority, $90.1 million of debt securities for capital grant securitization. UBS.
Michigan state housing, $57 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Michigan State Building Authority, $402.7 million of 2003 revenue and refunding bonds for the facilities program. Morgan Stanley.
New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority, $104.6 million of fixed rate revenue bonds for capital health system. Wachovia Bank National Assoc.
Ohio, Full Faith and Credit, $120 million of general obligation bonds and infrastructure improvement bonds. NatCity Investments.
Ohio Water Development Authority, $50 million of water development revenue bonds for community assistance series 2003. A.G. Edwards & Sons.
South Carolina, $209 million of revenue bonds for securing assets for education. UBS.
State Public Works Board of California, $431 million of lease revenue bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Tacoma, Wash., School District #10, $100 million of general obligation bonds. UBS.
Tobacco Settlement Financing Corp., $2 billion of asset-backed revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Virginia Resources Authority, $108.5 million of debt securities. UBS.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's/Fitch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (96%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); COUNTIES (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); SECURITIZATION (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); HEALTH CARE (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); WELLS FARGO & CO (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); WFC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



391 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Nervous about bidding on eBay? Hartford Insurance and a start-up are offering a policy to allay buyers' fears.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
IN every fear lurks an insurance opportunity, even online. A small start-up company and the giant Hartford Financial Services Group plan to roll out a buyer protection plan today that is meant to instill confidence in shoppers on eBay -- the Web auction site that does a booming business but engenders such a fear of fraud that an estimated 8 of every 10 online shoppers steer clear of it. 
 The proposed remedy, by Hartford and BuySafe, a start-up based in Alexandria, Va., is a type of insurance plan, to be paid for by participating sellers. Under it, an eBay shopper would be guaranteed up to $10,000 in coverage if a participating auction seller did not deliver advertised goods at the agreed-upon price. 
 EBay, which says it already has an adequate dispute resolution system, has not approved the Hartford-BuySafe plan and has declined to comment until its executives have a chance to review it. 
The introduction of a buyer protection plan follows the release last week of a survey indicating that most Internet users plan to use the Web to do at least some of their holiday shopping this year, but they may be squeamish every click of the way. The survey of 4,000 Internet users, by the research firm Ipsos Public Affairs, found that 63 percent of American consumers said they would buy goods from Web sites, but that about 75 percent expressed concern about the security of those transactions.
The online epicenter of ambivalence appears to be eBay, which accounted for roughly 15 percent of all fourth-quarter online sales last year, according to the technology consultancy Forrester Research, and is poised to again lead the way in holiday sales this year. Those numbers are all the more remarkable because Forrester says that only about 20 percent of online shoppers are willing to venture onto eBay. 
The "BuySafe with the Hartford" program relies on a financial instrument well known in the construction industry -- the surety bond. Construction contractors typically buy surety bonds to guarantee that their work will be performed as specified in the contract. Should the contractor default, the holder of the bond either pays the property owner the amount needed to fulfillthe contract or sees to it that the project is completed. 
On eBay, sellers who qualify for the surety bond program agree to pay BuySafe 1 percent of the final sale price for the right to include the "BuySafe with the Hartford" logo with their product descriptions. The logo, when clicked, yields a verification that the transaction is bonded, while also triggering a mechanism by which BuySafe can detect merchants who forge the company's seal.
The guarantee, meanwhile, assures buyers that they will receive either a refund or a replacement if the seller ships goods that are inconsistent with what was promised.
BuySafe's chief executive, Jeff Grass, said the program was aimed not at casual eBay sellers, but the site's so-called power sellers -- those who sell more than $1,000 in merchandise monthly. The participants would also need to have a record of mostly positive reviews from buyers. Mr. Grass says his company screens several facets of a merchant's business, like its credit history and financial strength, to determine whether the seller is a good underwriting risk. Hartford, which is a BuySafe investor, then underwrites the surety bond.
Should a transaction go awry, Mr. Grass said, buyers must inform BuySafe within 30 days of the sale date, at which time the company tries to mediate a resolution. If either party remains dissatisfied, BuySafe refers the dispute to a claims representative from the Hartford.
Mr. Grass said BuySafe hoped to attract many of the 150,000 or so high-volume eBay merchants, who generate most of the site's sales and display a majority of the more than 10 million items up for auction in a given day. So far, the company's clients number in the "triple digits," he said, but he added that BuySafe had yet to begin full-scale marketing to eBay sellers.
But in marketing only to prospective BuySafe merchants, the company may be limiting its potential impact, said Carrie Johnson, a Forrester analyst, who questioned whether many online shoppers would even be aware of the BuySafe program. "You still have to go to eBay to find out these services exist," Ms. Johnson said. "Many mainstream consumers won't go there in the first place, because they're worried about the quality of the products and fraudulent merchants."
And yet, Ms. Johnson said the BuySafe initiative could lead to incremental improvements in customer confidence on eBay. "Every little development against online auction fraud helps," she said.
Merchants, meanwhile, will welcome the idea, predicted Marjie Smith, who sells leather goods and ceramic household items on eBay and on the Abovethemall.com site, and who is participating in the BuySafe program. "You don't know who I am, where I am," Ms. Smith said. "But as soon as you see the BuySafe seal, you'll know I'm who I say I am, and that I'm not going to fall off the face of the earth, and even if I do, someone will take care of you."
Ms. Smith said that of the 100 or so sales she makes each month, a handful have resulted in thank-you notes from customers who say they have been defrauded on eBay . "So I know I need to do everything I can," she said, "to eliminate this issue." 
Chris Donlay, an eBay spokesman, said the company already had a dispute settlement service that "our sellers are pretty happy with."
That service, provided by a San Francisco company, SquareTrade, is similar in some ways to BuySafe. It screens prospective merchants who want to offer the SquareTrade seal. Most merchants pay $67 a year, agreeing to let SquareTrade mediate any dispute that may arise from a purchase. For certain merchants, SquareTrade also offers fraud liability insurance, in which buyers are guaranteed up to $1,000 in reimbursement or replacement items if the seller does not meet the terms of the purchase agreement.
But SquareTrade lost some of the confidence of eBay's merchants during the summer, said Ina Steiner, editor of AuctionBytes.com, an information site for online auction users. 
Earlier this year, a merchant using the eBay seller name Liquidationuniverse, which sold computers on eBay and displayed the SquareTrade logo, took orders from hundreds of customers and then failed to deliver the items. The United States Attorney's office for the District of Utah last month subsequently charged the seller, Russell Dana Smith, on 54 counts of wire and mail fraud in connection with the eBay sales. He is in federal custody, awaiting trial in the federal court in Salt Lake City. (The former eBay merchant, Liquidationuniverse, is not affiliated with the Web site liquidation-universe.com, which is owned by a liquidator in Garden Grove, Calif.)
Beyond feeling dismayed that SquareTrade's screening process failed, Ms. Steiner said, victims were outraged to find they would have to share among themselves the $800 fraud protection guarantee Square Trade had posted on the Liquidationuniverse product pages. 
SquareTrade's chief executive, Steve Abernethy, said the company ultimately paid out the full amount of the guarantee to "hundreds" of Liquidationuniverse victims, and now offered a guarantee on only certain items advertised by other sellers. 
While some may have lost faith, Mr. Abernethy contends that support remains generally strong among the 40,000 merchants who subscribe to the service. "After integrating the seal with their listings, their gross sales increase by 20 percent, on average," he said. "It's pretty powerful."
The company's screening process "can't guarantee you won't get defrauded, but it's 50 times less likely to happen," Mr. Abernethy said. "We try to create as many barriers as we can."
Asked whether BuySafe's entry into the market could impinge on SquareTrade's business, Mr. Abernethy said: "Not at all. It's another check to help lower the risk. The more there are things that help people in the mainstream feel comfortable, the better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marjie Smith, who sells on eBay and her own Web site from her home in Port Royal, S.C., photographs some merchandise. (Photo by Stephen Morton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); STARTUPS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); APPROVALS (71%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (66%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); BONDS (50%) AUCTIONS; INSURANCE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (93%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP; BUYSAFE; EBAY INC 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); HIG (NYSE) (93%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%) SIC6331 FIRE; SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



392 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Miami Looks to Trade Group to Revive BankIndustry 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Glancing at the skyline along Brickell Avenue in Miami's financial district, this city's international banking industry seems anything but sickly. Developers even recently completed a 70-story skyscraper, the nation's tallest building south of Atlanta, with a 2,000-pound nude by the Colombian sculptor Fernando Botero in its lobby.
 But sluggishness in South America's largest economy, Brazil, and debilitating financial crises in the continent's second-and third-largest economies, Argentina and Venezuela, have taken their toll on Miami's once-vibrant international banking industry. Deposits, assets and jobs have plummeted at the banks, which have traditionally been a relative haven for investments by wealthy Latin Americans. 
 But Miami's bankers say that a recovery may be at hand. They are quietly pinning their hopes for a rebound on the establishment of the Free Trade Area of the Americas, an arrangement intended to reduce tariffs on imports throughout the hemisphere. Trade ministers from 34 countries are meeting here this week for talks aimed at creating the free trade area by 2005.
The negotiators will also be discussing where to establish the headquarters of the Free Trade Area of the Americas, a prize that Miami is pursuing with at least a half-dozen other cities from the Western Hemisphere, including Atlanta and Panama City. Economists have estimated that establishing the headquarters would create 15,000 jobs for white-collar professionals including diplomats, lawyers and accountants, in the host city.
"That kind of throughput of new professionals would generate phenomenal demand for financial services in Miami," said Thomas P. Noonan, president of the Florida International Bankers Association and chief executive of BAC Florida Bank, an institution with strong ties to several Central American banks.
Still, the formation of an Americas-wide trade agreement remains uncertain, mired in protracted disagreements, mainly between the United States and Brazil, over tariffs on agricultural products, like oranges and sugar, and differences on barriers to investment in areas including financial services and software licensing.
Miami, meanwhile, is struggling to rebuild its international banking industry, now in the fifth year of a slump. Since 1998, the number of foreign banks with agencies in Miami has dwindled to 36 from 42, while the number of representative offices has fallen to 15 from 20. Total assets held in foreign banks in Miami have declined to $14.5 billion from $20 billion five years ago, said David N. Devick, a financial control analyst at Florida's Office of Financial Regulation in Tallahassee. Loans at the Miami branches of foreign banks declined about 20 percent, to $3.8 billion from $4.7 billion, in the 12 months ended June 30.
As business withered, so did payrolls: foreign banks employed 1,065 people as of June 2003, down 21 percent from a year earlier and 39 percent from 1998.
The decline in foreign banking activity is partly related to consolidation in the financial services industry. Barclays, once one of the Miami's largest foreign banks, last year sold its Latin American private banking business to the Royal Bank of Canada and shifted its investment banking operations in Miami to New York. Dresdner, a large German bank, recently closed its Latin American corporate banking operations in Miami, as did Standard Chartered, a British bank.
Other factors are also responsible. Latin Americans have been hesitant to deposit cash in interest-bearing accounts in Miami when American rates are near an all-time low and regulators in some countries -- like El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador -- allow investors to hold dollar-denominated accounts with higher rates of return, said David Konfino, president of the international division of Union Planters Bank, a Memphis institution with a large office in Miami.
A sizzling real estate market in South Florida, also spurred by low rates, has convinced many foreign investors to invest in property instead of securities. Then there is uncertainty over growth prospects in Latin America. Despite hopes for stronger economies in Brazil and Argentina, demand for services like trade finance and merger and acquisition advice remains relatively weak, executives at several banks here said.
Still, bank executives and analysts said they hope that a hemisphere-wide trade agreement would change that by encouraging cross-border mergers and trade. Some bankers here say they are encouraged by the recent decisions of relatively small banks like Banco Pastor and Caixanova, both of Spain, to open agencies in Miami.
"We get one or two contacts each month from banks sounding out a Miami presence," said Raul Valdes-Fauli, who is in charge of the banking practice at Steel Hector & Davis, a large law firm here.
Still, there is the concern that another city, especially one with a strong offshore banking industry like that in Panama City, could snare the Free Trade Area of the Americas headquarters, prompting some here to ponder the apparent bullishness of Miami's skyline.
"Crane activity is still strong along Brickell, which at least shows that there's a vision we'll move beyond the bust," said Kenneth Thomson, an independent banking consultant in Miami who also teaches at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "Nothing could be more crucial for this hope than seeing the F.T.A.A. headquarters to fruition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Noonan of the Florida International Bankers Association said the trade headquarters would create a strong need for financial services. (Photo by Cindy Karp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); AGRICULTURE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OF THE AMERICAS; BANKS AND BANKING; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (83%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (87%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) MIAMI (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



393 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
In Utah, Public Works Pr oject in Digital

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY 

 BODY:
When it comes to the Internet, residents of Utah are taking matters into their own hands.
 In a 21st-century twist on Roosevelt-era public works projects, Salt Lake City and 17 other Utah cities are planning to build the largest ultrahigh-speed digital network in the country. 
 Construction on the project is scheduled to start next spring -- if the cities can raise the money to pull it off. The network would be capable of delivering data over the Internet to homes and businesses at speeds 100 times faster than current commercial residential offerings. It would also offer digital television and telephone services through the Internet. 
With a $470 million price tag, the project is considered one of the most ambitious efforts in the world to deploy fiber optic cables, which carry data in bursts of light over glass fibers. Though it has not received much attention outside the area, the project has raised questions here about the role of government, particularly from telecommunications companies, which are starting to complain about the prospect of competing against a publicly sponsored digital network.
The cities involved argue that reliable access to high-speed data is so important to their goals of improving education and advancing economic growth that the project should be seen as no more controversial than the traditional public role in building roads, bridges, sewers and schools -- as well as electric power systems, which are often municipally owned in the Western United States.
Data infrastructure "is not a nicety," said Paul T. Morris, executive director for the project, which he has named Utopia, a stylized acronym for the Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency. "It's an essential economic growth issue," he added. "The best network in the U.S. will be in Utah -- not in New York, not in Chicago, not in Los Angeles."
Its advocates say that Utopia will give participating cities a leg up in attracting sophisticated companies and highly educated, technology-minded individuals. The network is expected to be available to 723,000 residents in 248,000 households and 34,500 businesses. Prices would vary considerably depending on the service, though basic high-speed Internet access is expected to cost about $28 a month.
But private sector competitors and taxpayer groups assert that the cities and their residents face a high level of financial risk for a network that may far exceed their needs. Telephone and cable companies nationwide are scrambling to build networks relying on less expensive, less advanced technology that they argue will be perfectly adequatefor many years to come.
Jerry Fenn, the president of the Utah division of Qwest, the regional telephone company here that provides its own high-speed Internet access, said there were few uses yet for the network Utopia plans to deliver.
The speeds to be provided "are way more than what most consumers need in their home," Mr. Fenn said, adding, "Why provide a Rolls-Royce when a Chevrolet will do?"
The notion of building extensive fiber optic networks may raise painful memories for many investors. During the latter half of the 1990's, several telecommunications companies lost billions of dollars when they laid fiber across the country -- and under the ocean -- in anticipation of huge demands that failed to materialize. 
But the Utopia project, which has been in the works for 18 months, is different. It is an attempt to complete a direct fiber optic connection to the home -- an ambition that collapsed in the telecommunications bust. And its advocates argue that the best way to advance digital technology is for a public entity to build a common fiber optic connection as a utility for all potential users rather than relying on the competition among private rivals that helped foster the over-investment debacle at the turn of the century. 
The Utopia effort, while by far the largest to date, is not the first attempt by municipalities to build an Internet infrastructure. In the spirit of power utilities, a small but growing number of local governments are investing in high-speed networks that far exceed current commercial speeds. But the efforts so far have tended to be in rural areas. 
As of October, only 180,300 homes had direct access to fiber optic lines; 64,700 were actually connected, according to Render, Vanderslice & Associates, a market research firm in Tulsa, Okla. 
"This is a very powerful test case," said Sharon Gillett, a research associate at M.I.T.'s center for technology, policy and industrial development. "If Utopia succeeds, it will be the first really large-scale deployment of fiber to the home in the United States."
Most people still reach the Internet from their homes through dial-up connections over copper telephone lines, typically limited to delivering data at 56.6 kilobits per second. That speed works well for things like e-mail messages, but it can be frustrating when using graphics-rich Web pages or downloading music and other larger files. 
To upgrade dial-up speeds, telephone companies modify their phone lines to offer a technology called digital subscriber line, or D.S.L., which creates a direct connection to the Internet at speeds that vary from 256 kilobits a second to one megabit or so, sometimes more. 
Cable companies like Comcast and Cox have been even more aggressive, adapting their systems to deliver Internet services at speeds usually roughly twice as fast as D.S.L. Prices vary, but consumers can pay $30 to $60 a month for high-speed access, whether through cable or telephone lines.
Utah's competitive landscape is similar to those in other states. Comcast's broadband service is available to 80 percent of its residents, and should be available to 90 percent by the end of the year. The company is spending about $350 million to increase the capability to as much as three megabits per second. 
For its part, Qwest, the regional telephone company, said D.S.L. service was available in about 60 percent of homes in the region. It is spending $100 million to upgrade its systems in 14 states.
But those delivery systems, as well as the higher-speed direct connections that are commonly used to hook up businesses to the Internet, pale before fiber optic lines. Depending on the kind of equipment used, fiber can deliver data at speeds of 100 megabits a second -- even as much as 1,000 megabits under some circumstances -- enabling the lines to be used simultaneously to send voice, video, Internet and other data traffic.
As of yet, there are few demands for such capabilities. But Mr. Morris, of Utopia, predicted that it would not be long before promising new applications emerged. For instance, televisions need 6 megabits a second to deliver DVD-quality images over the Internet, and 18 megabits to deliver HDTV. He is counting on residents in the Utopia service area to turn soon to video-on-demand, online video games, Internet and telephone service, all of which consume bandwidth.
The applications are not all here today, Mr. Morris said, but when they are, "you get to 95 megabits pretty quickly." He added: "We built a network that we don't have to change."
The project originated in 2002 after a similar effort by Provo, 35 miles south of Salt Lake City, hit a stumbling block. Provo built a fiber optic network, but it ran into a buzz saw of complaints from private telecommunications companies, notably AT&T Broadband. 
The Utah Legislature agreed with AT&T. Following the lead of several other states, it passed a bill making it difficult for government entities to create Internet utilities that sell service directly to consumers. But lawmakers here left the door open for communities to build wholesale networks, which would be required to lease space on the fiber optic lines to companies to provide retail digital services. Following this model, 18 cities created Utopia, vowing to go ahead if they could make the case that the fees paid by consumers and businesses would repay the cost of building the system. 
The costs are substantial. Mr. Morris said Utopia would spend about $1,100 a home to run the fiber network by each house in the 18 cities involved, and an additional $1,400 for each home that decided to be connected. 
An economic study by DynamicCity in Lindon, Utah, predicted that 40 percent of consumers and residents would sign up after two years. The project was likely to generate enough revenue by its seventh year to cover all expenses, the study estimated. 
Mr. Morris said Utopia was arranging financing from a New York investment bank. He said that the cities would be asked to guarantee a portion of the loan Utopia acquires from the investment bank, but that the amount was still being negotiated.
Such a guarantee, while not providing a subsidy in the form of tax-exempt financing, substantially increases the creditworthiness of Utopia, dropping the interest rate to the 6 percent range from as high as 12 percent, Mr. Morris said. But it also puts those cities at risk should the project fail to meet expectations.
Mr. Morris said he expected to secure the financial commitment this month, paving the way for construction to begin next spring or summer. 
Some local watchdog groups oppose the venture. Mike Jerman, vice president of the Utah Taxpayers Association, said the government should not be involved in such a fast-changing business. He said that without the taxpayer backstop, Wall Street would be reluctant to give its support. "They were looking at a 12 percent interest rate," he said. "That's worse than a corporate junk bond. It's an indication of how much confidence investors have in the project."
Mr. Morris acknowledged the challenge but insisted that Utopia was a golden opportunity to put together a real business to fulfill agenuine public purpose. "This is a major public works project, but it's not like in the era of F.D.R.," he said. "It's not a subsidy. We have a business plan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Salt Lake City and 17 other cities in Utah are planning to construct the largest ultrahigh-speed data network in the country, using fiber optic cables, at a cost of $470 million. (Photograph by Tom Smart; map by The New York Times)(pg. C1); Paul T. Morris of Utopia wants Utah to have the best network in the United States. (Photo by Tom Smart for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Map of Utah highlighting Salt Lake City. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (77%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DIGITAL AND HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION; FIBER OPTICS 

PERSON: MORRIS, PAUL T; RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) UTAH; SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



394 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
An article on Nov. 8 about the effect of the reopening of a copper mine in Butte, Mont., misstated the year in which Montana Power, an economic mainstay of the city, sold off its electrical business and became an Internet service provider, Touch America. 
It was 2000, not 1997. (Touch America went out of business this year.)
 Because of an editing error, the article misstated the time during which stock in Touch America fell from a high of $65 a share to a few cents. It was over more than three years, not in August. The article rendered the name of a city-county governing body incorrectly. It is Butte-Silver Bow, not Butte-Silverbow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MINING (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (85%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (56%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (51%) COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; CORRECTION STORIES; MINES AND MINING 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) BUTTE (MONT)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



395 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Economy's Advances in Atlanta Don't Lead to Popping of Corks 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
This city, which boomed even more than the rest of the country in the 1990's and busted even harder when the century turned, may well be the epicenter of the economy's emerging recovery.
 Every day, nearly around the clock at the airport here, dozens of workers in hulking trucks are moving enough dirt to build a two-mile-long, 70-foot-high hill for a new runway. Hotels are fuller than they were a year ago, state tax revenues are rising again and the Atlanta area added more than twice as many jobs to its economy during the 12 months that ended in September as any other metropolitan area, the Labor Department says. 
 For all of the encouraging signs, however, the economic mood here has remained decidedly measured. If anything, it seems far more similar to the anxiety of the last couple of years than the breathless optimism that filled the 90's, many workers, business executives and economists say. 
"If you look back over the last couple years, this is the first time we've made it to October or November without seeing the economy turn down again," said James H. Reese, president of Randstad North America, which runs 28 temporary-help offices in the area. "But we're not ready to scream victory or wave the flag by any stretch of the imagination."
In this way, the city seems typical of much of the country, where economic growth is finally fast enough to create jobs but many people worry that the good news will be fleeting.
There are reasons for the caution. Many of the new jobs here are only temporary, and even many of the permanent ones pay less than those in the shrunken manufacturing and technology sectors did.
Personal income growth continues to trail inflation in Atlanta, according to Economy.com, a research company that follows regional trends. The bankruptcy rate has remained almost 35 percent higher this year than it was in 2000.
Maria Del Conte says she is thrilled with her temporary job as an administrative assistant at an engineering company north of the city, having lost two other jobs in the last two years. But Ms. Del Conte is still making about 25 percent less than she did before 2001, when she worked as a meeting planner for pharmaceutical companies.
"Because of the economy, there is no chance of becoming a permanent employee" in her new job, said Ms. Del Conte, who lives in Kennesaw, an Atlanta suburb, with her teenage daughter.
Business executives say they remain chastened by the uneven growth of the last three years, unsure whether this burst of optimism will be the one that does not fade. The economy grew at an annual rate of 7.2 percent in the third quarter of this year, the fastest pace since 1984, but it was helped by government stimulus in the form of a tax cut and historically low interest rates.
"I don't think we're far enough into this recovery -- if it is a recovery -- to know," said Emory Brock, the director for economic development in Clayton County, just south of Atlanta, who holds a job that normally breeds boundless enthusiasm. "It's still wait and see."
Little of the new hiring here is happening at the city's biggest employers. Executives at Delta Air Lines continue to discuss the possibility of more pay cuts, for example. United Parcel Service has become more efficient over the last year, allowing it to handle more business without adding workers.
In a sign of the circumspection, some economists have even reviewed the employment statistics. So far, nobody has discovered obvious flaws.
But even if the Labor Department eventually revises its initial employment estimates to bring Atlanta's gain more in line with the rest of the nation's, the pickup in the local economy seems clear.
In the third quarter, Georgia took in 4.2 percent more tax revenue than it did a year earlier, helped by an even larger rise in sales tax receipts. It was the first year-over-year increase in overall tax revenues since early 2001, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
New claims for jobless insurance have fallen more rapidly here than they have in the rest of the country, according to the federal government. While the national travel downturn continues, the number of travelers at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is growing, creating the need for the new runway, the airport's fifth, and a new terminal due to be built soon.
"The Southeast is doing better than it was a year ago, without a doubt," said John Robertson, a senior economist at the Atlanta Fed. "And Georgia seems to have really turned the corner in advance of the nation."
The region may have struggled more than any other part of the country in 2001-2, as its manufacturing base withered. Factory jobs continue to fall victim to new technologies and move to lower-wage countries.
But the Southeast's reliance on military spending, which is increasing, and on foreign car manufacturers, which are faring far better than their Detroit rivals, has made up for some of the job loss elsewhere. For the first time since 1982, the South -- stretching from Florida to Oklahoma, as the government defines it -- had the lowest unemployment rate of any region in September.
The Lockheed Martin Corporation, the big military contractor, has about 700 more workers in its fighter-jet factory in Marietta, just north of Atlanta, than it did at the start of the year. A Nissan plant in Canton, Miss., outside of Jackson, began making minivans, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles in May and now employs about 4,000 people, with a typical starting hourly wage of $13 or $18. By next spring, the company expects the work force to exceed 5,000 people.
Atlanta, as the region's transportation hub -- the city where you have to make a stopover in order to get to heaven, according to an old joke -- often benefits from nearby growth.
The influx of people from other parts of the country has also helped. Their arrival has created jobs for construction workers, teachers, doctors and nurses, among others. At the same time, many foreign companies, drawn by Atlanta's airport and the South's relatively low salaries, have set up their American base here, according to Economy.com.
Mark A. Kaiser, the chief executive of Cendian, which manages the shipment of chemicals, has noticed the economy's change in the number of people who say no to a job offer. Only about 5 percent of people whom Cendian tried to hire turned it down a year ago. Now, more than 30 percent do.
In a strip mall north of the city, employees at a Randstad temporary-help agency say more executives ask them to look for workers who look like good candidates for permanent jobs eventually. The agency'sclients, which include a manufacturer of doors and a distributor of tea, have also been hiring slightly more temporary workers than they were a few months ago.
"The signals suggest this is much more than the little hiccups that we have had in the past," said William E. Carpenter, a Randstad vice president who oversees the company's Atlanta offices.
The metaphors vary, but the outlook is unusually uniform: the economy seems poised for a period of decent growth, better than the last couple of years but well short of a true boom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INCOME TAX (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); ENGINEERING (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; INCOME; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: RANDSTAD NORTH AMERICA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) ATLANTA (GA)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



396 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Business of Governing Starts Today for Schwarzenegger 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Arnold Schwarzenegger will be sworn in as California's governor on Monday after a whirlwind campaign followed by a six-week transition period in which he was largely invisible.
 Rarely has a person assumed so high an office with so little known about his political philosophy and so few clues to his governing style. In the recall campaign, Mr. Schwarzenegger largely stuck to generalities, promising to resist raising taxes while advocating moderate-to-liberal positions on the environment and other social issues. 
 In his first post-election visit to Sacramento in late October, a reporter asked Mr. Schwarzenegger what to expect from his first days in office.
"Action, action, action, action," Mr. Schwarzenegger said, repeating a word he must have heard often during his movie career. "That's what people have voted me into the office for."
But action toward what end? Mr. Schwarzenegger has said his first act in office will be to repeal a 300 percent increase in the vehicle license fee imposed by Gov. Gray Davis this year as part of a budget-balancing plan.
Rolling back the car tax will increase the state's projected budget deficit, now an estimated $10.2 billion, by $4 billion. Mr. Schwarzenegger has not said how he intends to replace the lost revenue, most of which goes to local government to pay for police, fire and other essential services.
Mr. Schwarzenegger has also said he intends to overturn a law signed by Governor Davis allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses and to revamp the state's workers' compensation system.
Beyond that, the new governor's agenda is rather vague. The clearest indication of the direction in which he intends to lead the state is the 20 appointees to senior posts in his administration he announced over the last three weeks. The nominees range across the political spectrum.
For example, Mr. Schwarzenegger has nominated Terry Tamminen, a Democrat and a staunch environmentalist, as head of the California Environmental Protection Agency. But on the same day, he named James Branham, a Republican timber company executive, as Mr. Tamminen's deputy.
"The obvious lesson is that he will govern the way he has appointed, the way he campaigned and the way he came into politics: from left, right and center," said Bill Whalen, a research fellow at the Hoover Institution and a former speechwriter for Pete Wilson, a former Republican governor.
Mr. Whelan noted that Mr. Schwarzenegger had named Bonnie Reiss, a liberal Democrat with strong Hollywood ties, to be a senior adviser, and Patricia Clarey, who has worked for Republicans in Sacramento and Washington, to be chief of staff. Mr. Schwarzenegger's chief education adviser will be Richard J. Riordan, a moderate Republican and former mayor of Los Angeles.
"You will see a blend of ideologies; that's Arnold in a nutshell," said Mr. Whalen, who is close to many of the former Wilson aides who have been advising Mr. Schwarzenegger.
So far, the public appears to approve of the way Mr. Schwarzenegger has conducted his transition. The anger that fed the recall of Mr. Davis seems to have abated, at least for the time being, said Mark Baldassare, director of research at the Public Policy Institute of California.
A survey of 2,000 Californians conducted from Oct. 24 to Nov. 2 found that 47 percent approved of Mr. Schwarzenegger's stated plans and policies, while 25 percent disapproved and 28 percent said they did not know enough to judge.
Republicans overwhelmingly approved of Mr. Schwarzenegger, while even a third of Democrats and self-described liberals had a positive view of the new governor.
State residents remain pessimistic about the state's budget and economy. But the proportion of those who said they believed the state was headed down the wrong track has dropped from three out of four on Election Day in early October to roughly half.
Mr. Baldassare credits Mr. Schwarzenegger, in part, for the improvement in the state's mood.
"He has given the impression that he's going to be a very active governor and he's going to listen to a lot of different voices," Mr. Baldassare said. "From that standpoint, he has moved in a political direction which, according to our survey, has been impressive to a lot of Californians. That is what they are looking for." 
Many in the capital are waiting to see how Mr. Schwarzenegger approaches the Legislature. The Democrats who control both houses by large margins regularly tormented Mr. Davis with liberal legislation that pulled him far to the left of the centrist path he tried to follow. That will not be an option under Mr. Schwarzenegger, who has vowed to reduce regulation and make the state friendlier to business.
Democrats appear somewhat cowed by their new celebrity governor and have agreed to convene for a special session on Tuesday to consider his first proposals.
Bruce Cain, director of the Institute for Governmental Studies at the University of California at Berkeley, said Mr. Schwarzenegger could adopt one of two models in dealing with the Legislature.
He could follow the path of Ronald Reagan or Jesse Ventura, the former governor of Minnesota, treating lawmakers as adversaries and going directly to the public to approve his proposals through ballot initiatives. Alternately, he could roll up his sleeves, negotiate with legislative leaders and try to win votes through cooperation.
Mr. Cain said he suspected that the new governor would try the course of conciliation at first but would ultimately use the pulpit of his office to get in front of the cameras and speak directly to the people. 
"Working with the Legislature involves a personal investment on Schwarzenegger's side," Mr. Cain said. "He has to show up regularly in Sacramento, try not to get frustrated and deal with people who are far less famous than he is. The question is whether he has the temperament and inclination to do that when the temptation is to go the other route."
Mr. Whalen said the new governor arrived in Sacramento vastly more popular than the Legislature or the permanent bureaucracy. They defy him at their peril, he said.
"The public voted for change and they will risk public wrath if they get in his way," Mr. Whalen said. "Getting in a public relations fight with Arnold Schwarzenegger is like bringing a knife to a gunfight. He'll set it up as good versus evil, just like in his movies, he'll take the fight out of Sacramento and he'll beat them time and again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The California seal was hung above the Capitol steps yesterday in preparation for today's swearing-in of Arnold Schwarzenegger. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); DRIVERS LICENSES (67%); BUDGET FORECASTS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (94%) SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



397 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Building a Web Media Empire On a Daily Dose of Fresh Links 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
"Thank you, Paris Hilton," exclaimed Nick Denton last week as traffic flowed in to his new Web venture, a pornography Web log called Fleshbot. 
 Mr. Denton, whose company, Gawker Media, also publishes the gossip site Gawker, had just received what to him was the Internet equivalent of gold: he scored one of the first copies of the now-infamous sex tape of Paris Hilton, an heir to the hotel fortune. 
 The timing of his voyeuristic coup could not have been better. Just hours before receiving the video by e-mail from a "deeply buried source" last Monday morning, Mr. Denton, 37, had introduced Fleshbot, which might best be described as an erudite pornography site, with the same kind of catty writing and timely links that have made Gawker a must-read for New York's gossip crowd. (The entry with the link to the Hilton video, which was available free, read: "Her eyes glint like a hungry cat's, and she's giving her partner that Bridget Fonda-esque, naughty half-smile look of satisfaction -- or too much Red Bull and vodka consumption.") 
In its first week, Fleshbot recorded more than one million page views -- slowing to a crawl at one point because of too much demand -- outdoing Gawker, which Mr. Denton started last year.
Gawker (www.gawker.com) has become a standout among Web logs, or blogs, which emerged several years ago as idiosyncratic online journals by individuals posting their musings and links to other sites.
Mr. Denton, a British entrepreneur and self-styled "play magazine editor," is trying to turn blogging -- once only the province of hobbyists -- into a profitable, ad-supported business. But Gawker Media is not exactly gushing cash just yet. 
Mr. Denton says his blogs, which also include a gadget site called Gizmodo, "are businesses with, at least for the moment, the turnover of a lemonade stand." He says each site brings in several thousand dollars a month in revenue.
But that may be just the beginning. Mr. Denton is planning to roll out a dozen more blogs in the next year, though he insists he is in no rush, and does not expect, to turn his lemonade stand into a money machine overnight. He is a 1990's dot-com millionaire who sold an events company called First Tuesday, which brought together entrepreneurs and venture capitalists at gatherings, right before the bursting of the bubble. "I'm kind of embarrassed," he said. "All this blogging is kind of paid for by the cocktail parties of the boom."
But all his blogging is catching the attention of millions of visitors a month and, increasingly, the interests of venture capitalists and New York's media elite -- despite Mr. Denton's best efforts to at least feign a desire to remain under the radar. (At first he said he did not want to be interviewed for this article, and when Gawker was mentioned in passing in this newspaper and also in New York magazine earlier this month, the site declared, "Gawker: So Totally Over.")
"When I first met Nick, he showed me this amazing new thing he called blogging," said Jeff Jarvis, president and creative director of Advance.net, the online arm of Advance Publications. "I frankly had no idea what he was showing me. Only later did I understand the significance of this: Tying history's easiest, cheapest publishing tool to history's best distribution network, the Internet, would have tremendous impact on media." 
Mr. Jarvis, who invested Advance Publications' money in Moreover Technologies, another company started by Mr. Denton, added: "He recognized that what sets Web logging apart from other media is only how incredibly inexpensive it is."
Indeed, unlike traditional publications or online magazines like Slate, blogs do not require a stable of writers to produce much original content. Most blogs consist of annotated links to material on other sites, with the blog editor playing the role of online master of ceremonies. 
Mr. Denton's blogging venture runs on a shoestring. He employs three writers, one for each blog, who "are not paid much." And he depends almost solely on good buzz for marketing. His tiny advertising budget consists of spending several hundred dollars to buy ads tied to certain keywords on Google's search engine, like "Anna Wintour," so that when users search for the names of media figures, the results include links to Mr. Denton's blogs.
"Nick's one of the few people I've met whom I'd describe as visionary: he has a real entrepreneurial zeal, a keen eye for new talent, and the enviable self-confidence that comes with having a few million stashed in the bank," said Maer Roshan, the editor and publisher of the magazine Radar, a pop culture magazine. "There's a Warholish aspect to Nick -- watching him in action, you get the feeling that he's always cataloguing, filtering, picking up bits up information for future use."
Mr. Denton, a former journalist for The Financial Times during much of the 1990's before he quit to work on First Tuesday and Moreover, appears to have a unusual ability to spot both talented writers and the subjects they should be writing about.
He says he looks for writers "who haven't had mainstream media experience," and he subscribes to the premise behind "Moneyball," the Michael Lewis book about the Oakland A's baseball team, which only hire athletes who "don't look like athletes" because, well, they are cheaper. 
His first pick to edit Gawker, Elizabeth Spiers recently left to work for New York magazine and created a blog for them. 
And Gawker's new editor, Choire Sicha, was just signed to write a weekly freelance column for The New York Observer.
While Mr. Denton does not edit the sites himself, he says he does encourage his writers to be "more trashy," jokingly explaining that he comes from "the Felix Dennis school of publishing." (Mr. Felix is the publisher of the young men's magazine Maxim.)
The way Mr. Denton determines the theme of his blogs has less to do with his own personal interests than with the demands of the market, as determined by Google. He relies on Google's AdSense program, which pays Web sites to publish text ads matched to the pages' content, for the bulk of his revenue. As a result, he picks blog subjects based on the rate Google pays for clicks on ads in specific topic areas. Among the topics of blogs he plans to start this year are computer gaming, travel and politics. 
He said he hoped that as the number of blogs multiply, he would reach a critical mass of visitors that he would be able to sell to larger advertisers. 
"The rise of Google's AdSense and related automatically targeted ad servers really suits narrowly focused blogs," said Chris Anderson, editor in chief of Wired magazine, which uses content from Gizmodo in one of its e-mail newsletters. "It provides a way for niche media and niche advertising to find each other, with virtually no human intervention required."
Whether blogs can ever become truly big businesses, though, is up for debate. Mr. Denton, for one, is trying to talk down the hype, at least for now. "Fantasy No.1 is that anyone is going to get rich off of this," he said. Mr. Denton insists he does not want to create another venture capital bubble. "I don't want to see some V.C.'s invest idiot money in idiot people at idiot companies," he said.
But Mr. Denton is thinking about how to expand the blog market, perhaps by creating product-focused blogs for major marketers. His next big project is a site called Kinja, which is supposed to be the blog of all blogs, compiling the best of Web log writing from thousands of different blogs.
But the need for Kinja may demonstrate Mr. Denton's biggest obstacle. "Inevitably, the rabbit-like proliferation of blogs may pose problems for Nick," said Mr. Roshan. "The low cost and few barriers that have made blogs an attractive business proposition may turn out to be their undoing, as everyone and their grandmother will soon have a blog."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nick Denton, right, president of Gawker Media, with two employees, Meg Hourihan and Peter Rojas. The company publishes Web logs including Gawker and a new site, Fleshbot. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (66%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

ORGANIZATION: GAWKER MEDIA 

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (90%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; DENTON, NICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



398 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: High Risks in Afghanistan 

 BODY:
While the failure of American policy in Iraq in recent months has been painfully visible and at the forefront of public debate, the Bush administration's failures in Afghanistan have been as serious, and the risks are also great. It was Afghanistan, not Iraq, that was the spawning ground for the Sept. 11 attacks. And now, less than two years after President Bush celebrated his first military victory, Afghanistan is in danger of reverting to a deadly combination of rule by warlords and the Taliban, the allies and protectors of Osama bin Laden. 
 A revived Taliban army, flush with new recruits from Pakistan, is staging a frightening comeback. Major cities remain in the hands of the corrupt and brutal warlords. Much of the countryside is too dangerous for aid workers. The postwar pro-American government led by Hamid Karzai rules Kabul and little else. Opium poppies are once again a major export crop. And Osama bin Laden remains at large. 
 This alarming state of affairs is not mainly the result of hidden conspiracies or bad luck. It flows from a succession of bad American policy decisions. These began with the Bush administration's reluctance to commit enough American troops to Afghanistan. Then it prematurely declared victory in its rush to a war of choice with Iraq.
The reliance on a relatively small American force in Afghanistan was hailed at the time as a new model for low-casualty, high-impact warfare. But it forced Washington to rely on Tajik and Uzbek warlords and their followers to drive the Taliban out of Afghanistan's cities. Many of those same cities are still controlled by those warlords.
The limited size of United States forces may also have contributed to Osama bin Laden's escape by leaving much of the early searching to poorly equipped Afghan militias and Pakistani border forces with no strong motive to succeed. The hunt for America's Public Enemy No. 1 should have been the Pentagon's No. 1 priority. 
Another costly mistake was the administration's failure to press for a robust international peacekeeping force that could displace the warlords and strengthen the central government. NATO recently took over the leadership of the 5,500-member international force and is now preparing to send some peacekeepers outside Kabul for the first time. The numbers being considered, fewer than 500, are still far too small. 
Washington also did not spend enough on postwar aid, slowing down such vital projects as repairing the main highway from Kabul to Kandahar. American reconstruction aid has now been increased by $1.2 billion for the next year. That is not yet enough.
The drafting of a new constitution is also a hopeful development. But as things stand now, it is no more than the Kabul City Charter. Unless far more is done to establish security in the many areas where it is still lacking and to reinforce the authority of the Karzai government, there can be no economic and political revival. There is a very real risk that soon, Afghanistan may once again turn into a sanctuary and training ground for Al Qaeda and other international terrorists. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (53%); OPIUM (53%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HAMAD KARZAI (72%) KARZAI, HAMID (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W(PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



399 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: CORPORATIONS; 
A Much-Loved Concept Gets a Few New Twists

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
IT started out as a simple concept: employees would contribute to a charity of their choice, and companies would match their gift. 
 Nonprofit groups loved the practice because it gave them twice as much money for their cost of fund-raising. Employees loved it because they could increase their support for causes that mattered to them. Companies loved it because it was an inexpensive -- and tax-deductible -- way to spread good will inside and outside the company halls. 
 All those reasons still apply. But matching programs are no longer simple. They have been put through enough permutations and combinations to make a mathematician blanch. 
Some companies have narrowed the categories of charities they will match gifts to while others have broadened them; still others have tried to steer employees to certain causes by offering those charities bigger matches. Some have supplemented cash-for-cash matches with monetary grants to the nonprofit groups their employees volunteer at. And a smaller but growing number of companies are letting employees buy company products at a fraction of their list price, provided the goods are donated to an authorized charity.
"There's no question, the amount of equipment donated by employees is going up," said Susan Corrigan, the chief executive of Gifts in Kind International, which helps companies administer programs to donate equipment. 
The timing on the turmoil is not coincidental. The economy has been sluggish for some time, and many companies, enduring mired sales and profits, are scrutinizing every penny they spend. 
"Companies still match donations, but they are becoming more focused on what they'll give, how they'll give it and where they'll give it," said John H. Taylor, a vice president for research and data services at the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, often called CASE. 
At some companies, matching gifts programs are the first to get cut. Soon after winning a contract from the Department of Energy to run its Oak Ridge National Laboratory three years ago, UT-Battelle ended its existing matching gifts program in favor of one that would give large amounts to a few local causes. "If you want to have a meaningful impact on the local community, you can't just sprinkle lots of small gifts around," said Billy Stair, the director of communications at UT-Battelle.
Other companies -- Dow Chemical, Lucent Technologies and Boise Cascade among them -- have simply suspended their programs until the economy improves. The Lucent Foundation, for one, spent $2 million on matching gifts last year; now it just makes small grants to those nonprofit groups that its employees donate time to. "Matching gifts were a popular program here, but our employees understand we have to make some hard choices," said Mary Ward, a Lucent spokeswoman.
Others -- Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey is one -- have kept the programs but stopped promoting them. "Only 10 percent of the employees at most companies take advantage of the matching gift program, and three quarters of the others don't even know it exists," said Roy Kaplan, the president of the JK Group, which administers giving campaigns.
Still others are suspending their programs until they are certain that the charities their employees support are not funneling money to, say, Al Qaeda, drug lords or other entities the company is loath to be connected with. Cisco Systems, for example, suspended its program in May. Abby Smith, a Cisco spokeswoman, said the suspension was part of a routine overhaul of the program, which Cisco would not reinstate "until we get more clarity around the government's antiterrorist guidelines."
But cutting matching gifts programs carries a high, if subtle, cost: it takes away a perk that many employees appreciate. "You're not seeing a stampede away from matching gifts, because they are too ensconced in tradition," said John Coy, the president of the Consulting Network, which advises companies on social responsibility. Even Xerox, which was near bankruptcy a few years ago, never canceled its matching gifts program. "We knew how important it was to our people," said Joseph M. Cahalan, the vice president of the Xerox Foundation.
Companies that are paring down are carefully preserving the spirit, if not the dollar amount, of their programs. The Reader's Digest Foundation stopped matching gifts made by retirees, a move that has reduced the program's cost to about $500,000 a year, less than half of what it once was. And it has gone from a 2-to-1 matching level to an even money match for employees. But it refuses to restrict the types of nonprofit groups covered. "The main importance to us is to have this remain an employee-driven program," said Jan Braun, the foundation's program administrator.
Few nonprofit institutions, in fact, say they have suffered from cutbacks. About $164 million, or 5 percent of all corporate contributions to higher education last year, still came from matching gifts, said Mr. Taylor of CASE, which is the repository of most data on matching gifts programs. The United Way of America reports that about 20 percent of corporations with United Way campaigns match employee contributions. The Girl Scout Council of Greater New York has reported an increase in matching funds in the last three years. So has the Wildlife Trust. "Companies have cut back on the C.E.O.'s favorite charities before those of employees, because they view a matching gift program as an employee morale booster," said Mary C. Pearl, the president of the Wildlife Trust.
That's not the only reason for growth, of course. Here are a few others:
* Companies want their donations to accomplish more. Gillette used to spend as much as $500,000 a year, buying multiple seats at almost 400 benefits. It has cut back to about five benefits a year. Yet the company has expanded its matching gifts program from supporting only education and arts programs to matching contributions to any qualified nonprofit organization. 
"We weren'thaving an impact with all that undisciplined giving, so why not put our money where our people want it to go?" said John F. Manfredi, the senior vice president who administers Gillette's philanthropic programs.
* Companies want to look good to the local community. Right now, about 3 percent of the CSX Corporation's $3.5 million philanthropic budget is spent on matching employee gifts to education. In January, CSX will allocate about 10 percent of that budget to matching employees' gifts of cash or time to any nonprofit group. The company assumes that most of the donations will be made to local schools and other regional causes. 
"We want to spend more money in the neighborhoods that surround our operations, and a good way to do that is to give to the causes our employees support," said Adam Hollingsworth, a vice president for public affairs at CSX.
* Companies want to underscore their technological acumen. I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard will match an employee's cash donations, but they are encouraging employees to donate company products, too, at well below list price.
"Every nonprofit is clamoring for more technology, and our employees have made it clear they want to be able to provide it," said Bess Stephens, Hewlett's vice president for corporate philanthropy and education. 
Right now, both companies make the program available to employees only in the United States and Canada. But Hewlett has started to let United States-based employees donate overseas, while I.B.M. is extending its entire program abroad. And this month I.B.M. inaugurated a program that gives employees Internet access to software that the employees can use in volunteer work. 
"It's not that we're discouraging anyone from visiting the elderly or ladling out soup," said Stanley S. Litow, the president of the I.B.M. International Foundation. "But lots of employees would rather give kindergarten teachers the equivalent of Technology 101." 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Giving section on Monday about corporate programs that match employee donations referred incorrectly to a figure for such donations cited by John Taylor, vice president for research and data services of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education. The figure, $164 million, was the amount of corporate matching funds given to 789 insitutions of higher education surveyed by the Council for Aid to Education, a separate group. It did not represent the amount given in matching funds to all colleges and universities.

GRAPHIC: Photo: HELPING -- Sam Bodner, a hearing-impaired student in Vancouver, Wash., works with a teacher, Rose Holman, center, on a computer given by Terri O'Hara, left. Ms. O'Hara's employer, Hewlett-Packard, encourages workers to donate its products. (Photo by Julie Keefe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); MATCHING GIFTS (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (62%) Philanthropy; Corporations; Volunteers; Philanthropy

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); HORIZON BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF NEW JERSEY INC (60%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GIFTS IN KIND AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%); DOW (SWX) (51%); DOW (NYSE) (51%); DOW (LSE) (51%); 4850 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



400 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: CORPORATIONS; 
Charity That Begins at the Cash Register

BYLINE:  By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
BLOOMINGDALE'S has dropped black-tie charity events altogether, opting instead for individual, local charity contributions and services suggested by employees and customers. Among them are a New York Fire Department Shop in the store, with all proceeds going to the city's firefighters, and the volunteering efforts of 64 employees to mentor first, second and third graders at a local public school.
 Brooks Brothers, which is celebrating its 185th birthday, still holds charity events but with a twist. It invites customers to parties for the National Colorectal Cancer Research Alliance if they commit to buying goods from the store. These customers also get a 5 percent discount on the purchases. In addition, special ties and scarves have been designed to help the charity, with 20 percent of receipts going to stem the disease, which is the second deadliest cancer after lung cancer. The organization is the store's charity of choice because it has been making strides in research. 
 Saks Fifth Avenue, which estimates that 80 percent of its customers are women and many are mothers, has chosen to back the VH1 Save the Music Foundation by assigning designers, like Michael Kors, to create exclusive items, a portion of each sale going to support music in public schools. 
American retailers, completing one of their best years in a decade, are maintaining their level of philanthropy but are supporting more employee-and-customer-driven charities. Their new goal is marketing-oriented, as opposed to contributing to a charity with no self-interest involved.
This year's higher donations from retailers contrast with the reduced rate of overall donations by the country's largest charities in 2002. One reason for the relative strength of their contributions, merchants say, is that after devastating years of liquidations and bankruptcies, they are using their good-will dollars as competitive tools. 
"We are very focused as a neighborhood store, whether it's in Manhattan or White Plains, and we are becoming more involved with individual causes," said Michael Gould, the chairman and chief executive of Bloomingdale's. 
"We dropped the black-tie events because people are less formal these days," and favor helping individual causes, he added. "Employees are coming up with ideas, too, as in our mentoring program. One person a day is a mentor, and 64 of them signed up."
Walter K. Levy, a retailing management consultant, expressed a similar view. "Most retailers today are giving to popular causes to direct their traffic and aren't as altruistic as they were," he said. "Their philanthropy is very marketing-conscious."
Katherine T. Mance, a vice president of the National Retail Federation Foundation in Washington, said that a national survey three years ago found that retail companies were increasing their charitable giving and that she saw no reason that the trend would not continue. "But now they are being more judicious in how they allocate money so as to have more impact," she said. 
Some retailers are supporting education, Ms. Mance added, and making smaller contributions to the symphony and the ballet. Home Depot is working with former President Jimmy Carter on Habitat for Humanity, building low-income housing. 
But marketing is important, Ms. Mance said. "Customers want their stores to back what they consider important, like breast cancer research and hunger, and home-improvement shoppers like to see backing for environmental groups."
This year, as last year, the best givers in retail remain the Target Corporation, in Minneapolis, which continues to devote 5 percent of its pretax income to charity and related causes, and Wal-Mart Stores, in Bentonville, Ark., by far America's largest retailer, which distributed more than $150 million last year and said it had topped that already in 2003. 
Last year, Target, which operates Target discount stores, Marshall Field's and Mervyn's promotional stores, contributed $96 million, or 2.56 percent, of its 2001 net income, the largest contribution, percentagewise, of any company of any type in the United States. Wal-Mart was the largest corporate giver, channeling 1.02 percent of income to philanthropy. Target's donations were up 10 percent in 2002 from 2001, and Wal-Mart's rose 17 percent from the same period. 
"Our giving increased, and will continue to do so along with our company's growth," said Betsy Reithemeyer, the director of Wal-Mart/Sam's Club Foundation. The charities that were selected, she added, were directed by the store's associates or employees. "They contribute to the organizations, too, that make an impact on their customers' lives, such as education and children's health." 
Target's charity payout is keeping pace with the company's revenue-growth "so that no matter what the economy does, Target will be donating 5 percent of its income," said Lena Klofstad, a company spokeswoman. 
This year, Target is emphasizing its Take Charge of Education program, which helps schools raise money, hoping to exceed $100 million in contributions this year. Target credit-card customers "designate the K-12 schools of their choice to receive from 1 percent to 0.5 percent of the merchandise price, depending on the type of Target card," Ms. Klofstad said. 
Customer participation programs are also being intensified by supermarkets. Safeway, in Oakland, Calif., one of America's largest food chains, has an eScrip program which customers sign up to buy pseudo-currency in stores to make direct contributions to local schools, while the company contributes a percentage of each customer's purchases. Last year, schools received $22 million from Safeway's eScrip program. Heading into the holiday season, the store plans to spend most of its charity funds on local food banks and other hunger-relief projects, said Brian Dowling, a company spokesman. 
Giant Food, a supermarket chain in the Washington area, has been promoting a You Can Help Hunger Box program in which customers can buy a box for $7.99. Placed in bins in front of the stores with the customer's name on them, the boxes are dispatched to local food banks. Each holds packaged and canned food intended for a family of four. Volunteers pack and stack the boxes, and Giant Food picks up the difference in the food's cost. "We prepared 1,200 boxes and 500 were sold the first day," said Barry Scher, the chain's public affairs vice president. 
At a recent formal dinner for needy families in Raleigh, N.C., the Harris Teeter supermarkets fed more than 3,300 people; it plans to accommodate 5,000 to 8,000 more in a similar dinner later this month. 
Wegmans Food Markets, in Rochester, takes a broader approach, offering employee scholarships, contributing to food banks, backing other neighborhood projects and supporting the United Way. And in Winston-Salem, N.C., the Lowes Food stores are aiming to contribute two million pounds of food this year to local food banks. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: NO BLACK TIE -- The New York Fire Department Shop inside Bloomingdale's. (Photo by William C. Lopez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (95%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CANCER (90%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); ONCOLOGY (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WOMEN'S MARKET (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TRENDS (71%); COLORECTAL CANCER (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); LUNG CANCER (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Philanthropy; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: isadore barmash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 

 
