

201 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 66; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2372 words

HEADLINE: The Age Boom: Aging in the Workplace;
On the Edge of Age Discrimination

BYLINE: By Marianne Lavelle; Marianne Lavelle, a writer for The National Law Journal, is a co-author of "Toxic Deception," a book about how dangerous products stay on the market.

 BODY:
Larue simpson made $196,000 a year, played golf and owned thor-oughbred racehorses before his life derailed, he contends, on the prejudice that does not discriminate by race, sex or class. A jury agreed that Simpson lost his job as a partner in the Cincinnati office of the accounting giant Ernst & Young because, at the age of 47, he was deemed too old by his firm.
 With Ernst & Young prepared to ask the United States Supreme Court to overturn the $3.7 million verdict the accountant won in 1994, Simpson's age-discrimination case may prove to be a watershed for baby-boom professionals. Ernst & Young is fighting for the right of big law, accounting and consulting firms to decide whom they hire and fire as they always have -- in the decorum of partnership agreements and without resort to unseemly (and unpredictable) lawsuits. But for Simpson and all who came of age at the birth of the civil rights movement, no course of action could be more proper than to imbue one's personal struggle with universal significance by taking it to court. His suit and others like it signal that, with all the vigor they once summoned to fight the Vietnam War, environmental pollution and repression of any kind, baby boomers are poised to attack an issue that is new only to them: how employers treat workers with long careers. 
 One indication of the trend is the series of record age-discrimination settlements the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission racked up in the past year, like Monsanto and Chevron's agreement to pay $18.3 million to 43 laid-off sellers of Ortho lawn-care chemicals -- some of them as young as 41. The e.e.o.c. has no statistics yet to prove it, but at a meeting last June on age discrimination, the agency's chairman, Gilbert Casellas, noted the profusion of high-profile claims by workers at the younger end of this protected class. Even though, he might have added, those complaints require a person who should be in the peak years of a career to make an unabashed declaration of helplessness.
 Simpson's case against Ernst & Young, for example, turns on a semantic issue: what is it to be a partner in a mammoth organization where you have no real decision-making power? And in a way, that question captures the loss of meaning, the slipping away of personal definition, that is the essence of age-discrimination cases. But Simpson was no weary Willy Loman. The 6-foot-5 former University of Kentucky basketball player struck a youthful pose in a local business journal in gym shorts three years before he was fired. And while Arthur Miller's tragic figure pleaded vainly to his boss, Pay attention, as his work and life slipped from him, Simpson already has forced partnerships across the nation to take note. His case is a portent that the generation that glorified youth may revolutionize the value of age in the American workplace.
 This year marks the 30th anniversary of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Federal law protecting workers over 40 from not being hired or fired or from other work decisions based on age. Its passage was a little-noted flourish in the civil rights movement; racial and sexual equality attracted more attention on campuses then filled with students in the leading edge of the baby boom. The facts that one-half of the private-sector job openings at the time were advertised as closed to applicants over 55 and that one-quarter of those barred workers as young as 45 seemed far-off concerns.
 Now that half of the labor force will be over 40 by the year 2005, there is no civil rights cause more relevant to baby boomers. Nor is there one more universal. If, for lack of kinship, any white man on a conservative career track could not fully appreciate the struggle of minorities and women against prejudice, statistics indicate that he will. More than 86 percent of age-discrimination complaints in the mid-1980's were filed by men, 79 percent by white-collar workers and 57 percent by managers, according to E.E.O.C. and other studies.
 Three decades after the law's passage, older job applicants will be discriminated against one in four times when competing with younger applicants with the same credentials. Research in 1994 by the Fair Employment Council of Greater Washington for the American Association of Retired Persons showed that discrimination against older workers was about the same as that against African-Americans and Hispanics of all ages. The researchers also learned that older applicants could boost their chances only by hiding their age or emphasizing their youthful qualities. The worst strategy for an older applicant is to emphasize experience, stability, loyalty and maturity -- stereotypical qualities, positive though they may be, associated with age. More than one in three such resumes were rejected outright.
 Age-discrimination complaints filed annually before the E.E.O.C. or state and local employment agencies, the first step in any civil rights action, climbed from 24,813 in fiscal 1990 to a high of 32,145 in 1992. The agency calculates that employers in fiscal 1996 paid more than ever before in per-worker precourt resolutions of age-discrimination cases: $40.9 million to settle 1,931 cases. In those cases that make it to court, headlines suggest that employers are agreeing to multimillion-dollar payments. Most notably, the defense giant Lockheed Martin consented last November to pay $13 million to 2,000 nonunion employees who lost jobs in the old Martin Marietta Astronautics Group from 1990 to 1994.
 Lockheed never admitted to bias, and many other managers argue that they are unfairly accused of age discrimination when decisions are purely economic. Regrettably, when a company has to reduce the workforce, it often has to remove lots of qualified people, says Ann Elizabeth Reesman, general counsel of the Equal Employment Advisory Council, an association of private-sector employers. That doesn't mean they are not any good or poor employees; it's just that the company doesn't have as many spaces. And that creates resentment for employees, especially long-term employees. Time and again, courts have ruled it legal for an employer to select workers with larger salaries for dismissal, even if they happen to be the older workers.
 Kmart is defending itself against age-discrimination suits in part by arguing that dismissals of longtime store managers were legitimate business decisions. Kmart's managers, according to the argument, were once needed to keep inventory of clothing, toys, toaster ovens and other wares on store shelves. But the need for managers in whom to invest such trust evaporated with the introduction of scanners at checkout counters. Inventory decisions could be made by computer. Some of the ex-managers that now are charging the retailer with age discrimination are not yet in the over-50 population that as recently as the mid-1980's made up 82 percent of age-discrimination complainants.
 Pamela Poff, a deputy general counsel at Paine Webber, says these cases are not warm and fuzzy as they once were, when employers were so ignorant of the law that they would simply tell workers they were too old. Today, she says, there are instances where, technologically or organizationally, a worker rises to a level where he or she no longer fits within the budgetary constraints of the department.
 As a result, age bias has a different edge than racial or sex bias. Its victims are wounded not because of the skin or sex they were born with, but because of what they have become. For LaRue Simpson, pursuing an age-discrimination case meant defending in public what Ernst & Young used to justify his firing -- his personal loans with firm clients, his thwarted ambition to become an office managing partner, his choice of serving small entrepreneurial clients that generated little revenue growth. The accounting firm still maintains that Simpson's firing had nothing to do with age. Ernst & Young is a firm that makes its hiring and retention decisions based on merit, says Kathryn A. Oberly, the firm's general counsel. That policy was followed in this case. She would not discuss it further pending the Supreme Court petition.
 Baby boomers will learn, if they haven't already, that the age-discrimination claim that begins with the grandest clarion call for civil rights devolves -- sooner or later -- into the tinny noise of a trial over someone's job performance. Courts often clash over the resolution of such cases. A manager's comment to a diesel mechanic that at your age you cannot produce like you once could was ruled a neutral observation by a judge in Alabama; the Federal appeals court in Atlanta in 1994 said the remark was the very essence of age discrimination.
 The Commonwealth Fund, a New York-based philanthropic group, financed research on whether worker performance declines with age for its Americans Over 55 at Work project -- a program aimed at encouraging companies to attract, retrain and retain senior workers. A review of sociological literature showed that the only jobs for which performance appeared to decline with age were in manual labor, where many workers continue to be protected by union seniority rules. Researchers found no correlation between age and work quality for the group that lodges most age-discrimination complaints -- supervisors and professionals. Skills actually appear to improve over the years for people in sales.
 But skills that workers have perfected through experience may become less important with each passing year. The Commonwealth Fund noted that 48 percent of the ex-ecutives surveyed see technology as important to the future of their business, but only 11 percent rated their older workers comfort-
 able with new technology. Poff says that older workers may find themselves particularly vulnerable.
 Jack Levin, a sociology professor at Northeastern University and the author of the 1980 book Ageism, argues that while laying off older workers may appear justifiable on the surface, such decisions are based on prejudice, nevertheless. Workers are told they lack certain qualities deemed absolutely essential, Levin says. And I think you can summarize those qualities in one code word -- versatility. The term is seen as a way of eliminating older workers based on a quality that they lack, as opposed to age. And I think many of those views are based on a stereotypical notion that you can't teach old workers new tricks.
 The Commonwealth Fund concluded that not enough research has been done to gauge whether older workers are less trainable than younger employees. But researchers found that 90 percent of workers -- young and old -- will have to be retrained during their careers. And the payoff for training younger workers, who are more likely to hop to new jobs, may actually be less than for training older workers who stay put. However, employers have to craft training with care for older workers, who respond best to low-pressure training. Does a company's reluctance to invest in a program tailored to older workers constitute discrimination?
 It will be a long time before the courts are asked to decide such a subtle issue. Most workers simply agree to cash settlements before volleys of charges and countercharges about their performance and trainability become public. The workers that make it to trial are those who find the paper trail, who hear the stray comment that suggests their cases, indeed, have something to do with youth and age. Exhibit A in the case of hundreds of Kmart store managers, expected to go to trial in Federal court in Atlanta later this year, is a videotaped news conference by Joseph Antonini, the former Kmart chief executive officer, at the unveiling of a new company logo in September 1990. We are blessed with an officer group whose average age is slightly under 50 years, Antonini said. Our middle management group ... many of whom are here today, whose average age is 40, all are dedicated and committed to our strategies for the 90's.
 For LaRue Simpson, the smoking gun was the agenda of Ernst & Young's management-committee meeting of Feb. 21, 1990, including the items Resignations and retirements -- where we stand in the process and Comparison of partner ages in 1990. Ernst & Young compiled lists of the names, ages and years of service for every partner over 51. There also was a list of partners who had recently quit and their ages. Jesse Miles, Ernst & Young's co-chairman, said that management merely was gauging what positions would be vacated soon through retirement. As for the detail in which ages were noted, even for younger departing partners, Miles said, The only way I could describe it is, being accountants, we like to total things.
 Simpson's lawyer, Janet Abaray of Cincinnati, had another explanation. When Simpson and 98 other partners over 40 were fired, the company promoted 112 accountants under 40 to partnership. The salary saving alone was $5.5 million per year.
 Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a downsizing -- this is an age-sizing, Abaray said at trial. Under questioning by Abaray, Miles had said, We have to have bright capable young people joining us . . . on an annual basis in order to keep the lifeblood of the organization growing and growing and growing.
 A jury's 1994 decision to award Simpson $3.7 million was a signal that baby boomers will not permit organizations like Ernst & Young to hire and fire as they have in the past. Casellas, the E.E.O.C. chairman, says: While those in or just past the baby-boom years may be the targets of age discrimination, they may also be its final arbiters. Would a trial with a jury most likely made up of the middle-aged peers of those let go from Chevron have proved too risky for the company?
 Levin, the sociologist, sees in such stories hope that the present generation of older workers, by sheer force of numbers, can erode corporate prejudice against senior employees. The baby boomers have the cultural clout to significantly reduce age discrimination, he says. What an opportunity for them to take some of the influence, authority and marketplace power that they have and benefit everyone, especially themselves.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ruth Bernhard, 91, Photographer. -- "It's too bad our bodies fall apart a little bit. It takes me longer to make up my face now." (pg. 67); Eartha Kitt, 69, Entertainer -- "I've learned voice placement, learned to sing around the vocal cords, not through them, in order to protect my voice." (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 68)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION ERNST & YOUNG LLP (92%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); MONSANTO CO (54%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; AGED; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION DISCRIMINATION (92%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (91%); ELDER LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (89%); GOLF (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); VERDICTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); BASKETBALL (70%); TRENDS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (51%); 

PERSON: LAVELLE, MARIANNE

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



202 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Society Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS: VOWS;
Maryam Banikarim, Andrew Lerner

BYLINE: By LOIS SMITH BRADY 

 BODY:
MARYAM BANIKARIM left Iran with her family when she was a young girl, moving first to Paris, then to San Francisco, and later to London. Ms. Banikarim's sister, Susie, says she was always energetic, artistic and precocious. In Paris, she was drinking espresso and reading the existentialists at 12. Now, she is so esthetically particular that even her paper napkins come from the Museum of Modern Art.
Though she has lived in New York for several years, Ms. Banikarim is still nomadic. A graduate of Barnard College and the Columbia University Business School, she has been a production assistant on a film set in Argentina, helped a woman in New York run a dating service and worked as an intern in the British Parliament. She just began a new job, as a publishing brand manager for Macmillan Publishing. 
 "She is a monsoon of a life force," said Mary Jane Brennan, a friend. "When we would go out, people used to think she was Indira Gandhi. Then, if she wore sunglasses and dressed up, they thought she was Madonna. She has this mystique about her."
Talking over coffee recently, Ms. Banikarim, 28, said the only thing she ever feared was falling in love.
"I never really dated," she said. "I was completely horrified by the idea of relationships. I always thought, 'Friends will be here forever, but boyfriends come and go.' "
Five years ago, she met Andrew Lerner in a graduate economics class at Columbia. "I used to say, 'I'm going to this party or movie,' and he'd say, 'Oh, I'll come,' " she recalled. "I thought, 'Who is this guy who keeps saying he'll come along?' "
In many ways they are opposites. He is quiet and cautious; she loves risks and parties. "I've never met anybody who knew more people and wanted to do more things," said Mr. Lerner, 30, who runs his own capital venture fund specializing in start-up Internet businesses. "She wants to go to movies and plays, and have coffee with friends and give dinner parties. It's great to be with someone who's so aggressive about living her life."
The relationship has been as monsoonlike as the bride. After business school, the couple lived together for a while, but after about a year Ms. Banikarim abruptly broke things off, afraid of even owning furniture with another person. "She called 1-800-Mattress one day and moved out," Ms. Brennan said.
Ms. Banikarim rented a small apartment and spent a year thinking about whether it was possible to be both married and adventurous.
"Breaking up with Andy was the best thing that ever happened to our relationship," she said. "I had a lot of time to be introspective, and I realized that you can be independent and dependent at the same time. I also realized getting married wasn't going to make me boring. In fact, it would give me more grounding and allow me to do all the crazy things I wanted to do."
After a long period of not seeing each other, the two started speaking again via E-mail. Eventually, they agreed to go to a movie, then to take a vacation together and finally to share an apartment again.
Last Sunday, they were married at Montrachet, the restaurant in TriBeCa, in a ceremony that combined the bridegroom's Jewish background with the bride's Persian one.
While the ceremony was officiated by Rabbi David Posner, the couple followed Iranian tradition and took their vows next to a table covered with meaningful objects, like a large silver mirror (to bring lucidity and luck), containers of wild rice (to protect against jealousy) and a bowl of eggs painted blue and pink (symbolizing fertility).
"I never thought they were going to get back together again," said Brandi Prescott, a guest. "Maryam moved out; they weren't talking; it was over. But they are a great example of 'If you love somebody, give it another shot.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: MONTRACHET, TRIBECA, MARCH 2 Above, the bridegroom, center, and the bride in a rare restful moment. Top, guests near the restaurant. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (61%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (61%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: 1800MATTRESS.COM (61%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); FILM (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); 

PERSON: BANIKARIM, MARYAM; LERNER, ANDREW; BRADY, LOIS SMITH INDIRA PRIYADARSHINI NEHRU GANDHI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



203 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 39; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3187 words

HEADLINE: The Age Boom

BYLINE: By Jack Rosenthal; Jack Rosenthal is the editor of The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
When my father died at 67, leaving my mother alone in Portland, Ore., I thought almost automatically that she should come home with me to New York. Considering her heavy Lithuanian accent and how she shrank from dealing with authority, I thought she'd surely need help getting along. "Are you kidding?" she exclaimed. Managing her affairs became her work and her pride, and it soon occurred to me that this was the first time that she, traditional wife, had ever experienced autonomy. Every few days she would make her rounds to the bank, the doctor, the class in calligraphy. Then, in her personal brand of English, she would make her telephone rounds. She would complain that waiting for her pension check was "like sitting on pins and noodles" or entreat her granddaughter to stop spending money "like a drunken driver." Proudly, stubbornly, she managed on her own for 18 years. And even then, at 83, frustrated by strokes and angry at the very the thought of a nursing home, she refused to eat. In days, she made herself die.
 Reflecting on those last days, I realize that the striking thing was not her death but those 18 years of later life. For almost all that time, she had the health and the modest income to live on her own terms. She could travel if she chose, or send birthday checks to family members, or buy yet another pair of shoes. A woman who had been swept by the waves of two world wars from continent to continent to continent -- who had experienced some of this century's worst aspects -- came finally to typify one of its best. I began to understand what people around America are coming to understand: the transformation of old age. We are discovering the emergence of a new stage of life. 
 The transformation begins with longer life. Increased longevity is one of the striking developments of the century; it has grown more in the last 100 years than in the prior 5,000, since the Bronze Age. But it's easy to misconstrue. What's new is not the number of years people live; it's the number of people who live them. Science hasn't lengthened life, says Dr. Robert Butler, a pioneering authority on aging. It has enabled many more people to reach very old age. And at this moment in history, even to say "many more people" is an understatement. The baby boom generation is about to turn into an age boom.
 Still, there's an even larger story rumbling here, and longevity and boomers tell only part of it. The enduring anguish of many elders lays continuing claim on our conscience. But as my mother's last 18 years attest, older adults are not only living longer; generally speaking, they're living better -- in reasonably good health and with enough money to escape the anxiety and poverty long associated with aging.
 Shakespeare perceived seven ages of man -- mewling infant, whining schoolboy, sighing lover, quarrelsome soldier, bearded justice, spectacled wheezer and finally second childhood, "sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything." This special issue of the Magazine examines the emerging new stage, a warm autumn that's already altering the climate of life for millions of older adults, for their children, indeed for all society.
 
Longer Life
In 1900, life expectancy at birth in America was 49. Today, it is 76, and people who have reached 55 can expect to live into their 80's. Improved nutrition and modern medical miracles sound like obvious explanations. But a noted demographer, Samuel Preston of the University of Pennsylvania, has just published a paper in which he contends that, at least until mid-century, the principal reason was neither. It was what he calls the "germ theory of disease" that generated personal health reforms like washing hands, protecting food from flies, isolating sick children, boiling bottles and milk and ventilating rooms. Since 1950, he argues likewise, the continuing longevity gains derive less from Big Medicine than from changes in personal behavior, like stopping smoking.
 The rapid increase in longevity is now about to be magnified. The baby boom generation born between 1946 and 1964 has always bulged out -- population peristalsis -- like a pig in a python. Twice as many Americans were born in 1955 as in 1935. Between now and the year 2030, the proportion of people over 65 will almost double. In short, more old people. And there's a parallel fact now starting to reverberate around the world: fewer young people. An aging population inescapably results when younger couples bear fewer children -- which is what they are doing almost everywhere.
 The fertility news is particularly striking in developed countries. To maintain a stable population size, the necessary replacement rate is 2.1 children per couple. The United States figure is barely 2.0, and it has been below the replacement rate for 30 years. The figure in China is 1.8. Couples in Japan are typically having 1.5 children, in Germany 1.3 and in Italy and Spain, 1.2.
 To some people, these are alarming portents of national decline and call for pro-natalist policies. That smacks of coarse chauvinism. The challenge is not to dilute the number of older people by promoting more births. It is to improve the quality of life at all ages, and a good place to start is to conquer misconceptions about later life.
 
Better Health
This, Gloria Steinem once said famously, "is what 40 looks like."And this, many older adults now say, is what 60, 70 and even 80 look like. Health and vitality are constantly improving, as a result of more exercise, better medicine and much better prevention. I can't imagine my late father in a sweatsuit, let alone on a Stairmaster, but when I look into the mirrored halls of a health-club gym on upper Broadway I see, among the intent young women in black leotards, white-haired men who are every bit as earnest, climbing, climbing, climbing.
 Consider the glow that radiates from the faces on today's cover, or contemplate the standards maintained by people like Bob Cousy, Max Roach, Ruth Bernhard and others who speak out in the following pages.
 That people are living healthier lives is evident from the work of Kenneth G. Manton and his colleagues at Duke's Center for Demographic Studies. The National Long-Term Care Survey they started in 1982 shows a steady decline in disability, a 15 percent drop in 12 years. Some of this progress derives from advances in medicine. For instance, estrogen supplements substantially relieve bone weakness in older women -- and now seem effective also against other diseases. But much of the progress may also derive from advances in perception.
 When Clare Friedman, the mother of a New York lawyer, observed her 80th birthday, she said to her son, "You know, Steve, I'm not middle-aged anymore." It's no joke. Manton recalls survey research in which people over 50 are asked when old age begins. Typically, they, too, say "80." Traditionally, spirited older adults have been urged to act their age. But what age is that in this era of 80-year-old marathoners and 90-year-old ice skaters? As Manton says, "We no longer need to accept loss of physical function as an inevitable consequence of aging." To act younger is, in a very real sense, to be younger.
 Stirring evidence of that comes from a 1994 research project in which high-resistance strength training was given to 100 frail nursing-home residents in Boston, median age 87 and some as old as 98. Dr. Maria Fiatarone of Tufts University and her fellow researchers found that after 10 weeks of leg-extension exercises, participants typically doubled the strength of the quadriceps, the major thigh muscle. For many, that meant they could walk, or walk without shuffling; the implications for reduced falls are obvious. Consider what this single change -- enabling many, for instance, to go to the bathroom alone -- means to the quality and dignity of their lives.
 Just as old does not necessarily mean feeble, older does not necessarily mean sicker. Harry Moody, executive director of Hunter College's Brookdale Center on Aging, makes a telling distinction between the "wellderly" and the "illderly." Yes, one of every three people over 65 needs some kind of hospital care in any given year. But only one in 20 needs nursing-home care at any given time. That is, 95 percent of people over 65 continue to live in the community.
 
Greater Security
The very words "poor" and "old" glide easily together, just as "poverty" and "age" have kept sad company through history. But suddenly that's changing. In the mid-1960's, when Medicare began, the poverty rate among elders was 29 percent, nearly three times the rate of the rest of the population. Now it is 11 percent, if anything a little below the rate for everyone else. That still leaves five million old people struggling below the poverty line, many of them women. And not many of the other 30 million elders are free of anxiety or free to indulge themselves in luxury. Yet most are, literally, socially secure, able to taste pleasures like travel and education that they may have denied themselves during decades of work. Indeed, many find this to be the time of their lives.
 Elderhostel offers a striking illustration. This program, begun in 1975, combines inexpensive travel with courses in an array of subjects and cultures. It started as a summer program with 220 participants at six New Hampshire colleges. Last year, it enrolled 323,000 participants at sites in every state and in 70 foreign countries. Older Americans already exercise formidable electoral force, given how many of them vote. With the age boom bearing down, that influence is growing. As a result, minutemen like the investment banker Peter G. Peterson are sounding alarms about the impending explosion in Social Security and Medicare costs. Others regard such alarms as merely alarmist; either way a result is a spirited public debate, joined by Max Frankel in his column on page 30 and by the economist Paul Krugman in his appraisal of the future of Medicare and medical costs on page 58.
 Politicians respect the electoral power of the senior vote; why is the economic power of older adults not understood? Television networks and advertisers remain oddly blind to this market, says Vicki Thomas of Thomas & Partners, a Westport, Conn., firm specializing in the "mature market." One reason is probably the youth of copywriters and media buyers. Another is advertisers' desire to identify with imagery that is young, hip, cool. Yet she cites a stream of survey data showing that householders 45 and over buy half of all new cars and trucks, that those 55 and over buy almost a third of the total and that people over 50 take 163 million trips a year and a third of all overseas packaged tours.
 How much silver there is in this "silver market" is Jerry Della Femina's subject, on page 74. It is also evident from Modern Maturity magazine, published by the American Association of Retired Persons. Its bimonthly circulation is more than 20 million; a full-page ad costs $244,000.
 All this spending by older adults may not please everyone. Andrew Hacker, the Queens College political scientist, observes that the longer the parents live, the less they're likely to leave to the children -- and the longer the wait. He reports spotting a bumper sticker to that effect, on a passing Winnebago: "I'm Spending My Kids' Inheritance!" Even so, the net effect of generational income transfers remains highly favorable to the next generation. For one thing, every dollar the public spends to support older adults is a dollar that their children won't be called on to spend. For another, older adults sooner or later engage in some pretty sizable income transfers of their own. As Hacker observes, the baby boomers' children may have to wait for their legacies, but their ultimate inheritances will constitute the largest income transfer to any generation ever.
 Longer years, better health, comparative security: this new stage of life emerges more clearly every day. What's less clear is how older adults will spend it. The other stages of life are bounded by expectations and institutions. We start life in the institution called family. That's soon augmented for 15 or 20 years by school, tightly organized by age, subject and social webs. Then follows the still-more-structured world of work, for 40 or 50 years. And then -- fanfare! -- what? What institutions then give shape and meaning to everyday life?
 Some people are satisfied, as my mother was, by managing their finances, by tending to family relationships and by prayer, worship and hobbies. Others, more restless, will invent new institutions, just as they did in Cleveland in the 1950's with Golden Age Clubs, or in the 1970's with Elderhostel. For the moment, the institutions that figure most heavily for older adults are precisely those that govern the other stages of life -- family, school and work.
 
FAMILY: The focus on family often arises out of necessity. In a world of divorce and working parents, grandparents are raising 3.4 million children; six million families depend on grandparents for primary child care. And that's only one of the intensified relationships arising among the generations. Children have many more years to relate to their parents as adults, as equals, as friends -- a fact demonstrated firsthand by the Kotlowitz-to-Kotlowitz letters on page 46.
 
SCHOOL: Increasingly, many elders go back to school, to get the education they've always longed for, or to learn new skills -- or for the sheer joy of learning. Nearly half a million people over 50 have gone back to school at the college level, giving a senior cast to junior colleges; adults over age 40 now account for about 15 percent of all college students. The 92d Street Y in New York has sponsored activities for seniors since 1874. Suddenly, it finds, many "New Age seniors" want to do more than play cards or float in the pool. They are signing up by the score for classes on, for instance, Greece and Rome. At a senior center in Westport, Conn., older adults, far from being averse to technology, flock to computer classes and find satisfaction in managing their finances on line and traversing the Internet.
 
WORK: American attitudes toward retirement have never been simple. The justifications include a humane belief that retirees have earned their rest; or a bottom-line argument that employers need cheaper workers; or a theoretical contention that a healthy economy needs to make room for younger workers. In any case, scholars find a notable trend toward early retirement, arguably in response to pension and Social Security incentives. Two out of three men on Social Security retire before age 65. One explanation is that they are likely to have spent their lives on a boring assembly line or in debilitating service jobs. Others, typically from more fulfilling professional work, retire gradually, continuing to work part time or to find engagement in serious volunteer effort. In Florida, many schools, hospitals and local governments have come to depend on elders who volunteer their skills and time.
 
FAMILY, SCHOOL, WORK -- AND INSTITUTIONS yet to come: these are the framework for the evolving new stage of later life. But even if happy and healthy, it only precedes and does not replace the last of Shakespeare's age of mankind. One need not be 80 or 90 to understand that there comes a time to be tired, or sick, or caught up by the deeply rooted desire to reflect on the meaning of one's life. For many people, there comes a moment when the proud desire for independence turns into frank, mutual acknowledgment of dependence. As the Boston University sociologist Alan Wolfe wrote in The New Republic in 1995, "We owe [our elders] the courage to acknowledge their dependence on us. Only then will we be able, when we are like them, to ask for help."
 That time will come, as it always has, for each of us -- as children and then as parents. But it will come later. The new challenge is to explore the broad terrain of longer, fuller life with intelligence and respect. One such explorer, a woman named Florida Scott-Maxwell, reported her findings in "The Measure of My Days," a diary she began in her 80's. "Age puzzles me," she wrote, expressing sentiments that my mother personified. "I thought it was a quiet time. My 70's were interesting and fairly serene, but my 80's are passionate. I grow more intense as I age. To my surprise I burst out with hot conviction. . . . I must calm down."
 
Bob Cousy, 68, Sports Commentator.
 I still thrive on competition, and when I feel those competitive juices flowing I've got to find an outlet. Of course, at 68, it's not going to be playing basketball. Basketball's not a sport you grow old with. Sure, I can manage a few from the free-throw line, but being in shape for basketball's something you lose three months after you retire. I stay in shape by doing as little as possible. I play mediocre golf and terrible tennis. My wife calls it my doubleheader days, when I go out and play 18 holes of golf in the morning and then three sets of tennis in the afternoon.
Now I'm working in broadcasting and schmoozing the corporates. I'm a commentator for the Celtics' away games. I like it because I'm controlling my own destiny. People always said I was born 20 years too soon, that I was the highest-paid player in the league. I was getting $30,000 a season. The last time Rodman had that incident with the official in New Jersey, he had to pay something like $200,000, that's almost as much as I made in my 13-year career! But the professional game's changed. There's a sameness out there now. The coaches are too conservative. The plays are too structured. There was much more of a free flow when we were playing. That's what's exciting for the fans, not redundancy.
Everything I've done since I graduated from Holy Cross in 1950 has been sports-related, and it's all because I learned to throw a little ball into a hole. A playground director taught me how to play when I was 13. To me it'll always be a child's game.
 
Ann Cole, Age "Between 59 and Forest Lawn", Swimsuit Designer
 Everyone has certain features that they hate, and that doesn't change much as you get older -- it just gets closer to the ground, as Gypsy Rose Lee once said. So you do just grin and bear it unless you want to sit indoors and grump about it. I get a lot of women who come in and say, "You wouldn't wear that." And I say, "Why, yes I would." I haven't become more comfortable with my body. I've just taken an attitude that its easier not to care or worry. Just do it. Sure, someone's probably saying: "Oh, my God! What's this old bag doing in that suit?" I've always been a great advocate of people not listening to their children. There used to be a lot of children who weren't happy unless their mother wore a skirted suit down to her knees. They'd say, "Oh, Mom, you can't wear that." I tried to get people over that in the 60's and 70's, because what do they know? You can't be worried about every bump and lump.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Cousy, 68, Sports Commentator -- "I go out and play 18 holes in the morning and then three sets in the afternoon." (pg. 41); Ann Cole, Swimsuit Designer -- Age: "Between 59 and Forest Lawn" Sure, someone's probably saying: 'Oh, my God! What's this old bag doing in that suit?' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (90%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; SPECIAL SECTIONS; LIFE STYLES LIFE EXPECTANCY (88%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); AGING (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, JACK MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



204 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RIVERDALE;
Russia House: Plot Thickens

BYLINE: By ANDREA K. WALKER 

 BODY:
The 20-story apartment building that has housed Russian diplomats since 1974 juts into the sky, an odd giant among quaint homes, low-rise co-ops and graceful mansions. The Russians have grand plans to slice off the top 11 floors of the building, replacing them with four adjoining buildings ranging from 9 to 13 stories.
Officials of the Russian Mission say the project is crucial in improving living conditions for the diplomats, who now reside in cramped, dormitory-style apartments. But local residents and politicians, who have led a successful effort to stall the $60 million project, say the plans are too extravagant and would create an insular community. 
 "We're not trying to stop them from improving their quality of life," said Laura Spalter, co-president of the Riverdale Community Association. "The Russians are fine neighbors. I've been here as long as they have. It's not the Russians per se, it's the building."
The plans call for construction of a complex that would include 204 apartments, a 300-student school for grades 1 through 11, a library, medical offices, a theater, gym, restaurant, administrative offices, an indoor pool, a rooftop greenhouse and a 44,000-square-foot parking garage. The size of the apartments would be increased by 35 to 40 percent.
Last year, the Russian Federation obtained work permits from the city's Department of Buildings to begin foundation work. But because of pressure from neighbors who argued that the plans violated city zoning laws, the project was halted.
In December, the Department of Buildings ruled that the seven acres of land constituted two zoning lots because the plot was split by Faraday Avenue, a partially built road that appears on city maps but effectively ends where the Russian property begins. In order to continue the project, the Russian representatives must now decide whether to have the road removed from maps or to apply for a zoning variance. Community groups have successfully used that issue to delay the project.
Residents are also concerned that the construction, expected to take more than three years, will disrupt the neighborhood. Because Russia is a sovereign nation, residents fear that it will not pay for repairs to any property damage that may occur during construction, or that the economically stuggling country will run out of money before the project is completed.
Russian diplomats said the fears were unfounded. "This project is a big expensive one, and we plan to spend real money," said Nikolai V. Tchoulkov, Deputy Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the United Nations.
Both sides have met twice with Ambassador Victor Marrero, who handles social and economic issues for the United States Mission to the United Nations, in unsuccessful attempts to mediate the problem. Although the State Department supports the project, it has made it clear that the Russians must abide by local laws.
The Russians, who have already spent $3 million on design plans, say they will not bow to community pressure.
"We hoped our colleagues on the American side would take into account our interests and concerns," Mr. Tchoulkov said. "We're a little surprised at such actions that have been taken." ANDREA K. WALKER

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Russians hope to slice 11 floors off the residence and build anew. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RIVERDALE (NYC); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SERVICE MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ZONING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (51%); 

PERSON: WALKER, ANDREA K MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



205 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

BERLITZ ECONOMICS
Translating Greenspan
Biblical scholars have it easy: all they have to do is debate nuances in the ancient Greek. Trying to make sense of today's economy is a far tougher task: you have to figure out what Alan Greenspan is saying. The week before last, according to some highly reliable translations, he said stock prices were too high, and prices dutifully slipped for a few days. Last week, though, he said, "There is a valid argument as to sustaining the level of prices," which some dusty Greenspan scholars translated as "never mind." Stocks dutifully rose nearly 100 points. It's still never entirely clear what he means, though, so maybe the answer would be to translate everything he says to ancient Greek, then back again.
 
EMPLOYMENT
Little Snow, Lots of Jobs
When the Northeast and other parts of the country practically skip winter, as they did this year, it does wonders for the construction industry, which added 109,000 jobs in February. That was the driving force in an overall gain of 339,000 jobs in the month, the biggest increase in nine months, which helped push the nation's unemployment rate down to 5.3 percent from 5.4 percent. Uh-oh, you say -- the economy's overheating, inflation's headed back, stocks will crumble. But the market didn't plunge, because of another point in Friday's job report: companies are not exactly spreading the wealth, with hourly earnings up a measly 3 cents. Can't buy much inflation with that.
 
PATRIOT GAMES
The Pajamas Are Coming!
Say you're 11, and your mother sends you to buy chewing gum, vowing punishment if you balk. Your father, though, vowed to punish you if he ever caught you buying gum. What to do? That's roughly the position Wal-Mart found itself in recently in Canada, but it wasn't gum -- it was pajamas. The pajamas, you see, were made in Cuba. Can't sell 'em, dictates the Helms-Burton Act. So Wal-Mart, when it discovered the offending garments, started pulling them off the shelves. Wait a second, said Canada's Government -- you can't do that either. It's against Canadian law to obey that American law. Various nations, Canada included, are challenging Helms-Burton, saying it is America's attempt to strong-arm the world. Washington, with a straight face, responds that it may have to label this a "national security" issue. Invasion of the killer pajamas.
 
HOLLYWOOD
$60 Million Monsters
Imagine it. Imelda Marcos, opening her closet, is shocked, shocked to find all those shoes. Absurd? Well, consider this: Movie executives were variously "horrified," "disturbed," "appalled" and merely "upset" last week when the Motion Picture Association of America announced that the average cost of making and marketing a movie had reached nearly $60 million last year, two and a half times the price a decade ago. Come on, now. Those are the very executives who order all those snazzy car chases, all those buildings being blown up, all those sky-high salaries for the stars of the moment. Is it all necessary? Instead of charging $7 or $8 for a ticket, couldn't they charge $4.50 and, after the hero jumps in a car to pursue the villain, just put a silent-movie title on the screen that says: "Imagine a chase scene here. (You know: just like all the others you've seen.)"
 
FEDERAL LARGESS
Remember the Richest
Washington, you may have heard, has a terrible time balancing its books. Congress has an annual brawl about some odd amendment to force it to mend its ways, with the latest effort dying a hero's death last week in the Senate. The problem, you see, is that there are all these worthwhile things the Government feels it must do -- like, say, offering a half-million dollars to Greenwich, Conn., so it can spruce up its main street. Now this street, mind you, is not exactly a grim boulevard of plywood-clad windows and broken bottles. Far from it. The Government, though, in its infinite wisdom, does not discriminate against the Rolex and Lauren set, so it deemed Greenwich worthy of this largess. But last week Greenwich, in its infinite wealth, proudly said, No thanks.
 
LEGAL FOLLIES
Caution: Falling Warnings!
Which are more plentiful -- products that could harm us, or lawyers dying to sue someone? That's a tough one. It's tempting to say lawyers, of course. But think of all the things either slowly poisoning us or threatening to puncture, scald or otherwise attack us. Product makers, naturally, want to avoid injuries -- but, it often seems, they especially want to avoid lawsuits. So as lawsuits get sillier -- "No one warned me not to swallow that telephone," the plaintiff complains -- product warnings have matched silliness for silliness. "Cape does not enable user to fly," warns the Batman costume. "This product does not have brakes," warns a plastic sled. And, of course, the post-lawsuit warning on McDonald's coffee: "Caution: Hot!" Well, yes.
 
TOUGH JUSTICE
Hoffenberg's Day in Court
If you get a letter from Steven Hoffenberg promising untold wealth if you'll only give him your life savings to invest, it might be best to file it with the rest of your junk mail. If you hear that Mr. Hoffenberg is offering to buy, say, some local tabloid, it's a safe bet the deal won't fly. Mr. Hoffenberg, you see -- brash, unlikely bidder for The New York Post, and the man who bilked investors out of hundreds of millions -- was sentenced last week to 20 years in prison. Harsh, you say? Not to the judge, who dispensed this stern justice after hearing numerous tales of lives smashed by Mr. Hoffenberg's "greed." This man, he said, must be "barred from causing further damage to society." Mr. Hoffenberg did get one break: the judge now says he owes his victims just $462 million, not $475 million. The stone, in other words, must shed a drop less blood.
 
CABLEVISION
The Only Game in Town
If you want to watch New York's sports teams on television, your choices now practically come down to this: Cablevision, Cablevision or Cablevision. The big Long Island cable company, which already owns half of Madison Square Garden, is buying the other half from ITT for $650 million. By combining the MSG Network with Sportschannel, Cablevision will have a virtual lock on everything from the Knicks to the Yankees to the Rangers. Given how sports-addicted New Yorkers are, that's a lot of power in one place -- like having the only bar in a town full of heavy drinkers -- and concerns quickly arose about what this would do to prices. So if you need your regular dose of sweating, swatting superstars, think good thoughts about Cablevision.
 
WALL STREET
A Paycheck Apart
Wall Street, in an economic sense, has seceded from New York City. It used to be that when the securities industry was fat and happy, the rest of the city was fat and happy, too -- that when jobs and salaries rose downtown, they rose everywhere. No more. While the pin-striped few have been getting those Ferrari-size bonus checks, wages elsewhere have stagnated. From 1989 to 1995, securities workers' pay -- adjusted for inflation -- soared 42 percent, while wages outside those bustling walls have not even crept ahead by 4 percent. Do those millions buy happiness, though? The statistics are inconclusive.

GRAPHIC: Photos. (Associated Press; Claudette Barius for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Little Snow, Lots of Jobs" shows monthly change in nonfarm payrolls, 1996-97. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 
Drawing. (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (52%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CLASSICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); FILM (62%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (60%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



206 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

TUESDAY
The Labor Department reports on productivity for the fourth quarter.
The Commerce Department reports on wholesale inventories for January.
 
WEDNESDAY
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta issues its national production index for February.
Earnings reports are expected from General Mills and Toys "R" Us.
 
THURSDAY
The Commerce Department reports on retail sales for February.
The Labor Department gives its weekly report on initial claims for unemployment insurance.
An earnings report is expected from Lands' End.
 
FRIDAY
The Labor Department releases the Producer Price Index for February.
The Federal Reserve reports on industrial production and capacity utilization for February.
The Commerce Department reports on business inventories and sales for January.
The University of Michigan releases its March survey of consumer sentiment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (58%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (91%); TOYS 'R' US INC (58%); GENERAL MILLS INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (86%); PRODUCER PRICES (86%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (86%); FOOD INDUSTRY (85%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (85%); RETAIL SALES (84%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



207 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: China Policy: Means and Ends

BYLINE: By Laura D'Andrea Tyson; Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a professor of economics at the University of California, was chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and of the National Economic Council in the first Clinton Administration.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif.

 BODY:
Recently, the media have been full of innuendo that the Clinton Administration's policies toward China have been influenced, if not bought outright, by Asian business contributions to the President's 1996 campaign. As one of the architects of those policies, I know firsthand that there is no basis for such allegations.
Our approach to China has been crafted by economic, national security and foreign policy experts from many Federal agencies who have debated options, sometimes heatedly, but always on their merits and always with the goal of serving American interests. Reasonable people can disagree about the effectiveness of the Administration's approach, but they should understand its overriding motivation and its underlying logic. 
 This approach starts with the simple notion that the United States is best served over the long run by China's stable evolution toward a more open, more democratic, more market-oriented system based on the rule of law. The logic of our policy also depends, however, on a realistic assessment of the means at our disposal. Critics of Administration policy too frequently overlook this distinction between means and ends.
Consider the Administration's often-criticized support for renewal of China's most-favored-nation trading status in each of the last four years. Some critics allege that the White House has sacrificed human rights goals for crass commercial ones. Others have gone even further and argued that the Administration's trade decisions have been bought by the lobbying efforts of American multinationals or of Asian business interests. Both accusations are wrong.
Improving human rights conditions in China is an essential part of our long-term goal. But the Administration's policy makers, supported by China experts at home and abroad, believe that withholding most-favored-nation status for China would not promote -- and would even impede -- our achieving this objective. Nothing in China's history or in the history of economic sanctions suggests that revoking the country's most-favored-nation trade status -- which would amount to imposing unilateral economic sanctions on Chinese goods -- would impel Beijing to ease its human rights stance. Nor have China's other trading partners been willing to join the United States in multilateral sanctions against the Chinese.
Certainly by withholding its most-favored-nation status, America could hurt China's economy, but it would undermine our long-run goal for at least two reasons.
First, it would cause a dramatic deterioration in our overall diplomatic relations with China and in our ability to negotiate on other important aspects of our relationship like nonproliferation.
Second, the bulk of American imports from China come not from its state-owned enterprises but from its private or quasi-private sectors, on whose health a developing Chinese middle class and China's continued evolution toward a more democratic system depends.
This is why many China experts believe that the best way to encourage reform and democratization is to strengthen China's trade and investment ties with the rest of the world, even though this approach may yield few if any short-run improvements in human rights.
Critics often point to the apparent anomaly between the Administration's willingness to threaten economic sanctions to encourage China's adherence to trade agreements and its unwillingness to withhold favorable trading status over human-rights violations. But a dispassionate assessment of means explains away this anomaly.
The threat of specific trade sanctions has proved effective in getting China (and many of our other trading partners) to stop violating trade agreements. Such sanctions can be fashioned to be commensurate with the economic costs that such violations have imposed on American businesses.
Consider the dispute over the protection of intellectual property. Precisely crafted sanctions encouraged the Chinese to respect the rule of law established in last year's bilateral agreement on intellectual property and in multilateral standards of copyright protection, without jeopardizing our ability to negotiate with China on other issues at the same time. By contrast, revoking most-favored-nation status would be a blunt instrument that would bring disproportionate harm to China's private ventures.
The most recent criticism of President Clinton's policy relates to the ongoing negotiations over China's admission to the World Trade Organization. The latest round of these negotiations concluded in Geneva last week amid promising signs from the Chinese that they are willing to meet the major conditions the Administration laid out in a blueprint several months ago.
This blueprint reflects a firm Administration resolve, shared by China's other trading partners, that China not be admitted unless it meets sound commercial conditions comparable to those met by other member countries. These conditions include commitments on improved access to China's market, greater openness in its trade and investment rules (including information on the extent of subsidies to China's state enterprises) and an end to requirements that foreign investors export the products they make in China.
As a member of the W.T.O., China would have the same responsibilities as its trading partners to honor the rules of international trade. This would would curtail the power of its state decision-makers who resist opening markets, and it would strengthen the hand of economic reformers.
At the same time, we would have a powerful multilateral forum in which to resolve trade disputes with China, thereby reducing the pressure for high-stakes bilateral trade confrontations that threaten to destabilize the entire United States-China relationship.
In short, China's admission to the World Trade Organization -- on commercially acceptable conditions -- is probably our single most effective means of shaping a more open, market-oriented China.
Unfortunately, the recent accusations of an unholy connection between the Clinton Administration's China policy and Asian campaign contributions threaten to obscure this reality. Some members of Congress are now proposing further, unspecified conditions on China's admission to the W.T.O. as well as requirements that Congress be given the right to "review" China's application before the Administration can approve it.
Both of these proposals are misguided. They could delay or even scuttle China's application to the W.T.O., contaminate other aspects of our relations with China, and call into question America's broader commitment to the trade organization.
The Clinton Administration's approach to China is based on a clear understanding of our national interests and of the tools at our disposal. Although our progress with China has been disappointingly slow in the short run, we are on the right track for the long run. Irresponsible speculation about the role of campaign donations cannot be allowed to undermine responsible policy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (M.K. Mabry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); LOBBYING (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); 

PERSON: TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



208 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of 2 Economists: Sizing Up the Income Gap

 BODY:
"Like Oil and Water: A Tale of Two Economists," by Louis Uchitelle (Feb. 16), examined the contrasting views of Paul Krugman and Lester Thurow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, particularly their explanations for the growth of income inequality in the United States. Here are some readers' responses.
 
To the Editor: 
 Paul Krugman attributes American income inequality to technology. Lester Thurow says the reason is a global economy in which low-wage, foreign workers adversely affect the wages of American low-skilled workers. The problem is more basic. Much of what we produce does not contribute to our standard of living or quality of life. A prime example of waste in our economy is in military spending, the biggest item in the Federal budget. We rationalize that it provides jobs, so we see it as a national project, a sort of a Works Progress Administration for a new era.
The W.P.A. of the 1930's produced many useful things. But the excess tanks and other vehicles that are used for maneuvers or war games do not improve our national security.
By moving jobs to education, the environment and other areas, low-income workers will benefit most.
 
JACK SCARANGELLA
New Rochelle, N.Y., Feb. 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUGMAN, PAUL; THUROW, LESTER (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



209 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of 2 Economists: Sizing Up the Income Gap

 BODY:
"Like Oil and Water: A Tale of Two Economists," by Louis Uchitelle (Feb. 16), examined the contrasting views of Paul Krugman and Lester Thurow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, particularly their explanations for the growth of income inequality in the United States. Here are some readers' responses.
 
To the Editor: 
 Mr. Krugman and Mr. Thurow see income inequality as a major economic problem but they are barking up the wrong tree in their search for an explanation and a remedy.
Low wages, whether caused by technology or global competition, are somewhat irrelevant. The wage differential between highly skilled and unskilled workers today may be greater than in the past, but it is the upward differential between skilled workers and chief executives, entertainment and sports figures, and even, we now learn, star economists, that is cause for concern.
If Mr. Thurow earns twice what Mr. Krugman does for a speech, does that mean he is twice as productive or has a technological advantage? Or is he simply more entertaining? And how do either of them compare with a major sports figure or newscaster, or with Michael Ovitz, with his enormous severance package from Disney?
The willingness of the American people to so richly reward so many whose primary contribution to our society is in the entertainment and sports industries is certainly an explanation of a large part of the disparity. Whether this is right is a matter for ethicists, though economists should be able to give some new ideas on the effect of our infatuation with fame on the national economy.

CHRISTINE GLITMAN
Jeffersonville, Vt., Feb. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); SPORTS (74%); ATHLETES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); ETHICS (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); SEVERANCE PAY (51%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUGMAN, PAUL; THUROW, LESTER (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



210 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of 2 Economists: Sizing Up the Income Gap

 BODY:
"Like Oil and Water: A Tale of Two Economists," by Louis Uchitelle (Feb. 16), examined the contrasting views of Paul Krugman and Lester Thurow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, particularly their explanations for the growth of income inequality in the United States. Here are some readers' responses.
 
To the Editor: 
 Paul Krugman says, "If a Mexican worker's output goes from 1 widget to 10 widgets a day, his wage rises to that level."
Unfortunately, this does not factor in the undemocratic politics that have kept Mexican wages artificially low. Mexico's ruling party maintains a cheap-labor policy to lure investment. The output of Mexican workers, however, is far greater than their remuneration indicates. If Mexico were a full democracy. and if labor became subject to free-market forces. Mr. Krugman's now-utopian theory might become a reality.

RICHARD ALBERT SEID
Mexico City, Feb. 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (70%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUGMAN, PAUL; THUROW, LESTER (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



211 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of 2 Economists: Sizing Up the Income Gap

 BODY:
"Like Oil and Water: A Tale of Two Economists," by Louis Uchitelle (Feb. 16), examined the contrasting views of Paul Krugman and Lester Thurow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, particularly their explanations for the growth of income inequality in the United States. Here are some readers' responses.
 
To the Editor: 
 The two economists don't seem to understand the main cause of the United States' foreign trade imbalances -- the excessive American contribution to global security costs, at a rate of $200 billion a year.
Our allies have largely depended on the United States' defense umbrella to take care of their external security. A substantial part of the funds they saved in this area was used to build up their economies and to improve their competitive positions at the expense of private-sector American enterprises.
Our Government should negotiate a fair sharing of global security costs with its affluent allies.

ERNEST J. OPPENHEIMER
Manhattan, Feb. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUGMAN, PAUL; THUROW, LESTER (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



212 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of 2 Economists: Sizing Up the Income Gap

 BODY:
"Like Oil and Water: A Tale of Two Economists," by Louis Uchitelle (Feb. 16), examined the contrasting views of Paul Krugman and Lester Thurow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, particularly their explanations for the growth of income inequality in the United States. Here are some readers' responses.
 
To the Editor: 
 In some ways, John Maynard Keynes may be a role model for Paul Krugman, but Mr. Krugman lacks Keynes's crystal-clear dissent from both the policies of governments and the long-established doctrines of the pre-Keynes generation of economists. Lester Thurow correctly sees the global economy as central to the explanation of wage inequality. But neither has helped us see the ways in which today's global economy is a departure from both earlier globalization and the more recent focus on individual national interests.
What should be considered in this debate is the possession and the exercise of power in the hands of the central banks and a relatively small number of multinational corporations. The nature, exercise, effects and accountability of power is a terrain still foreign to economics, including its most shining lights.

SUMNER M. ROSEN
Manhattan, Feb. 16
 
The writer, professor emeritus of social policy at Columbia University, has a Ph.D. in economics from M.I.T.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WRITERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (52%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUGMAN, PAUL; THUROW, LESTER (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



213 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of 2 Economists: Sizing Up the Income Gap

 BODY:
"Like Oil and Water: A Tale of Two Economists," by Louis Uchitelle (Feb. 16), examined the contrasting views of Paul Krugman and Lester Thurow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, particularly their explanations for the growth of income inequality in the United States. Here are some readers' responses.
 
To the Editor: 
 Mr. Krugman is right in saying global trade is too small a factor in our economy to explain much about falling real wages in a strong economy. The primary cause, however, isn't technology, but a new low-wage policy instigated by chief executives under Wall Street pressure. Labor costs account for two-thirds of the cost of a product, and companies focus ruthlessly on cutting these expenses through downsizing, outsourcing and benefits cuts.
This policy has resulted from two power shifts. Employees have lost negotiating power as union membership has plunged and as the unwritten compact between nonunion employees and employers has ended. But employees have also lost political power. The Democratic Party used to represent the average American, but today both major parties are parties of business.

LOUIS COHEN
Manhattan, Feb. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); OUTSOURCING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); POLITICS (65%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUGMAN, PAUL; THUROW, LESTER (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



214 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 44; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Medical Savings Accounts: Not the Perfect Answer

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Medical Savings Plans: The Experiment Begins" (Earning It, Feb. 16): 
 High-deductible medical savings accounts have been praised because they make the consumer become a more careful purchaser of health care services.
But this kind of thinking assumes that medical care is a luxury, like foreign travel or caviar, so that it is appropriate to expect consumers to pay the cost if they choose not to economize. Although this may be true for certain kinds of medical care, like cosmetic surgery and infertility treatments, it is clearly false for care that is necessary for life and health, like child immunizations, insulin or antibiotics. Do we really want people to have to take cost into account before immunizing their children or taking a necessary drug? An annual deductible of $1,500 is a real hardship to many individuals, as is an annual deductible of $3,000 to many families.
 
FELICIA ACKERMAN
Providence, R.I., Feb. 16
 
The writer is a professor of philosophy at Brown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (67%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (67%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (87%); HEALTH CARE (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (68%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%); PHILOSOPHY (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (56%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



215 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Empty Threats;
The Quest for Teeth to Jawbone China

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN the next few days a Presidential advisory commission will drop on the White House doorstep a voluminous study of America's economic problems with Asia that focuses on the Administration's biggest foreign policy headache: finding a new way to talk to China.
No one is satisfied with the meager exchanges that pass for dialogue between the world's strongest power and its most ambitious one. Everyone agrees that Washington has to break out of the circular debate over how to influence Chinese behavior -- an argument that rarely gets beyond wrangling over whether to threaten revocation of China's trading privileges with the United States because Beijing continues to imprison dissidents, ship arms around the world and steal technology, from Tokyo to Silicon Valley, for its expanding military. 
 The trade threat is an empty one, and the Chinese know it. The biggest losers would be the American companies that have invested billions in the world's most promising emerging market; the winners would be their Japanese and European competitors.
But some wisps of new strategy are emerging, not only from the Presidential commission but from private-sector groups that have spent the last year debating what some more creative shades of "engagement" might look like.
Some are proposing strategies that would nudge China into trade accords that promote the "rule of law" inside the country. Almost all are plotting ways to get the West to speak in one voice, rather than let Beijing play one off against the other by threatening to shift a big Boeing order to Airbus. The Presidential commission's central recommendation is that Washington insist that Deng Xiaoping's successors commit to playing by world rules if they want to join the club of trading nations, the World Trade Organization, and make a down payment with some rapid changes in Chinese law.
The commission, at the same time, urges flexibility when it comes to negotiating a timetable for ending many of China's protectionist practices and for improving environmental standards and labor rights.
None of these ideas would be easy to execute in the best of times. But add this hitch: The most recognizable name on the Presidential commission is Charles Yah Lin Trie, the Little Rock restaurateur turned big-time hustler in Beijing, who funneled more than $640,000 in shady cash to the Democratic National Committee and President Clinton's defense fund last year. It was Mr. Trie who brought Wang Jun, the head of China's state-owned arms manufacturer, to a coffee at the White House. By all accounts, Mr. Trie had no influence on the report; he hasn't shown up at a commission meeting since the fall and has never seen the draft of its report.
In Washington's scandal-charged atmosphere, though, Mr. Trie's name is enough to taint the report. And the problem does not stop there. If Mr. Clinton makes even minor gestures to Beijing, the response is not hard to imagine. "All over the Hill, and on every talk show, you'll be hearing the same question," predicted one recently departed Clinton Administration official. " 'Is this the payoff? Is this what all the Asian money was about?' "
In fact, it's hard to imagine that money turned around Mr. Clinton's basic China policy -- that happened without prompting in the spring of 1994. It was then that Mr. Clinton backed down from the rhetoric of his first campaign and adopted the line that linking human rights to trading rights was bound to fail. Mr. Clinton's advisers never figured out how to press a human rights agenda once the Chinese figured out they had nothing to lose. Every trade mission to China would ritualistically raise the subject, but "the Chinese knew it was so we could go in front of the cameras and say that we pressed them," one negotiator recalled recently. "Then it was on to business."
There are no satisfying alternatives in the murky ground between using trade as a lever and giving human rights the kiss-off as you sign a deal for a hangar full of 767's. But if you listen to the Administration talk to the Chinese, you can hear some new themes.
Speaking in Hong Kong last week, Lawrence H. Summers, the deputy treasury secretary, tried impressing upon China that repression is expensive. If China botches its takeover of the colony, he warned in a speech, "Hong Kongers have the ability to make such actions extremely costly" for Beijing, taking their expertise and their billions in cash somewhere else. "If there is to be some convergence of systems over time," Mr. Summers continued, "it would be beneficial for all involved that China's system become more like Hong Kong's than the other way around."
One big test of whether China agrees may lie in the future of Hong Kong's courts. It has long had an independent judiciary, one of the reasons the island has been a thriving commercial hub, and some of its principles are clearly making their way over the border; Chinese entrepreneurs have a clear interest in protecting their businesses from bribe-seeking bureaucrats and competitors eager to rip off manufacturing processes.
That's why China's big revision of its criminal code, announced last week, focused heavily on finance: it included the country's first insider-trading laws, a first shot at cleaning up the notoriously corrupt Shanghai stock exchange. And it made money laundering an offense, presumably so the tax man can get his piece.
In trade agreements, the United States has been trying to accelerate this movement. As part of last year's accord to end the rampant pirating of American movies, software and videos, China finally agreed to wipe out the huge fees charged to any foreigner seeking to file a court case.
"It sounds like a small, technical point," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States Trade Representative. "But if the system is designed so that you can't even launch a case, then there is no hope."
Getting Westinghouse a day in court, though, is very different from getting one for imprisoned dissidents like Wang Dan. No one is expecting Beijing to subject its political decrees to judicial review. China's model is Singapore, where corruption is rare, the legal system is efficient, and the leaders never lose a case. The bet, though, is that the spread of legal norms will be hard to control.
"Look, this is our best shot," said Ms. Barshefsky. "If a real legal tradition is going to start somewhere, it's in the commercial sector. Does that mean it is bound to spill over into the social sector, to make the courts a place you go to protect free-speech rights? No one's that naive. But it's a start."
The same logic favors China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Now, most-favored-nation treatment gives China the main benefit of joining -- low tariffs on its goods -- but none of the responsibilities. Membership means subscribing to thickets of regulations, and agreeing to abide by the rulings of W.T.O. judges.
It is a nice-sounding strategy, but suing Beijing in Geneva is not the kind of get-tough behavior that China hard-liners in Washington have in mind. It's painfully slow. The judges are timorous. Human rights cases and arms shipments are off-limits for the trade court.
Worse, China could use the mechanism against Washington, to challenge the trade sanctions that Washington periodically slaps on Beijing. And it might not be a pretty picture the first time that Washington lost a case to Beijing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police closed Tiananmen Square to the public Feb. 25 while 10,000 of China's elite attended memorial rites for Deng Xiaoping. (Reuters)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Check the Label"
With all the debate about whether to let China join the World Trade Organization, it's easy to lose sight of how deeply China already depends on the global economy. Total exports to the United States alone accounted for somewhere between $27 billion and $50 billion. Chart shows three products familiar to American consumers and the percentage of each made in China. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION AIRBUS SAS (55%); BOEING CO (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LAW AND LEGISLATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMS TRADE (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



216 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Fraud Victims;
The Many Lives Made Miserable By a Low-Down High-Roller

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
WHITE-COLLAR CRIME often seems benign. It is not. Cases in point: the hundreds of victims of Steven Hoffenberg, the high-rolling debt collector and financier who in 1993 briefly controlled the New York Post and who last week was sentenced on a range of fraud charges and for obstruction of justice.
Mr. Hoffenberg decided against the classic Ponzi scheme, whose promised high returns would strike the cautious as too good to be true. Instead, his Towers Financial Corporation disarmingly offered investors a few percentage points more than market interest rates, while impressing them with audited financial statements. Brokers got large commissions to bring in money, and bring it in they did. But the financial statements were phony, certified by a crooked accountant, and the money raised financed Mr. Hoffenberg's lavish lifestyle. 
 At sentencing in Manhattan on Friday, he was ordered to serve 20 years in prison, pay a $1 million fine and make restitution of the more than $462.5 million he stole. In fact, the money is gone, and those he defrauded got back less than a penny for every dollar they lost.
Their anger and anguish are reflected in letters to United States District Court Judge Robert W. Sweet, who cited them in imposing a longer sentence than recommended by Federal guidelines. Excerpts follow. FLOYD NORRIS
From Anthony Mattos of Hanford, Calif.:
I was employed by Armstrong Tire Company for 24 years. I started as a maintenance mechanic. When I retired I was a maintenance foreman. During my employment with Armstrong, I contributed up to 17 percent of my salary to a retirement fund. When I retired, I was informed that I would have to roll over my retirement to an I.R.A. within one year. I was told by an investment adviser that Towers Financial was a strong company. I invested $116,843.49 in an I.R.A. and $43,000 in another account with Towers Financial.
I sacrificed a big portion of my wages so I would have something when I retired. My current financial condition is that I will have to continue working in order to exist. . . . It is very depressing to learn that what one has worked for is gone. I worked the midnight shift, so I didn't have much time with my family. I thought I would have more time when I retired, but I guess not.
From RoseAnn Marchu of Vista, Calif.:
I am 69 years old. My husband, John, is 75. . . . We have worked hard all our lives, hoping to have a half-way comfortable retirement. Now with the loss of the money that was stolen from us by this person, Steven Hoffenberg, I have to watch every penny. My husband has had many strokes, which have left him legally blind. . . . I cannot afford to send him to day care and therapy more than one day a week. He should have more. Specialized care is very expensive and not covered by insurance. I have had a heart attack due to stress and financial worries. I worry about how my husband will be taken care of if I am no longer able to care for him.
From Danee L. Bramhall of Tuscon, Ariz.:
My husband and I were just married when we invested our $12,500 with Towers, which was the first and only investment we have ever made. . . . In the last two years we have been heartbroken . . . to learn that in-vitro fertilization is our only hope for having a child. The $12,500 would have covered two IVF cycles, or in other words two full attempts at having a child. At this point, we have no child, and no hope of having the money it would take to try. We are now both 32 years old. . . .
From Eloise L. Eaton of Parker, Ariz.:
On or about September of 1991 . . . a broker for Thomas F. White and Company of San Francisco began pressuring me to invest in Towers Financial Corp. promissory notes. At first, I resisted. [Eventually, I invested $213,000.] I figured that $213,000 at 14 percent should bring me in around $2,485 per month.
At the time I invested in the promissory notes, I was under a great deal of stress. My husband was seriously ill with Alzheimer's disease and major depression in a nursing center. His care was around $3,000 a month. . . .
My goal was to have a safe investment to help pay for his care and also take care of myself in the future. . . . The bankruptcy court returned only $1,102.99 of my $213,000 investment.
From Dean B. Palmquist, vice president of Longmont United Hospital in Longmont, Colo.:
Longmont United Hospital invested $200,000 of hospital funds with Towers Financial Corporation. . . . Completion of the community's cancer care center was delayed due to funding shortfalls due to our loss of this investment. . . .
From Frederick P. Rothman of King of Prussia, Pa.:
I am 55 years old and a lawyer and law professor for the past 26 years. I am embarrassed to admit that among the topics I teach is the Securities Act of 1933, particularly the anti-fraud provisions. . . . The consequences of the loss affect me every day, and the personal guilt for not being able to do more for loved ones when they need it will stay with me for the rest of my life.
From Tecla C. Smith of Woodstock, N.Y.:
We are both in our seventies. My husband retired as an engineer from I.B.M. and I retired as an elementary school teacher. . . . What we have in mind for Steven Hoffenberg's sentence is not fit to print.
From Sharon D. Dauenhauer of Bellevue, Wash.:
The money invested represented 15 years of savings as a single mother with three children. . . . Mr. Hoffenberg truly represents the evil we spend our lives protecting our children from.
From Lucille A. Watts of Cincinnati, Ohio:
The facts are that this person or corporation robbed us of our money. To us, it was a large sum. His greed deprived us of a dream we had for our future together. He is no better than a street thug with a gun, perhaps worse.
From David W. Farrow of San Leandro, Calif.:
I am a retired schoolteacher. . . . As for Mr. Steven Hoffenberg, I hope the judge puts him away for many, many years. I daresay he'll eat better than I will.
From Margot H. Spelman of New York City:
I made this unwise investment because I hoped that income from the notes would supplement my not-very- large teacher's salary. At that time, we had two children in private high school, heading to private colleges and my husband had been "downsized."
From Louise Loveland of Middlebury, Conn.:
I am a single mother with three dependent children who, at one time not so long ago, provided a comfortable lifestyle for my family. I am now receiving state aid as a result of the devastating losses to Towers Financial Corporation. Mr. Hoffenberg's heinous crime of outright thievery has wiped out any chance of my children ever receiving higher education, etc. Mr. Hoffenberg has single-handedly destroyed our lives.
From Donna M. Schulte of Roseville, Calif.:
This was almost all [my mother's] retirement money. She has now obtained a part-time job with Burger King restaurant to supplement her Social Security income. . . . If this man can't pay back what he stole from my mother, I feel he should be given life imprisonment. This is the term of the sentence she will be serving for having trusted him.
From Veriena Braune of Granbury, Tex.:
I am a 69-year-old woman who has been a teacher in the public schools of Texas for most of my adult life. I invested almost all of my life's savings, $112,000. . . . Mr. Hoffenberg has taken away what would have been a nice retirement income for me. So as a result, I have returned to teaching and will probably have to do so as long as I am able.
From Henry Field of Chicago:
Steven Hoffenberg caused me to lose $41,000 from my retirement plan, which was over half its assets. It was supposed to be a safe investment. . . . Steve Hoffenberg hurt more people in a brief five years than a jail full of street criminals in their lifetimes. What they accomplish in a moment of fear with the swish of a knife, Steve Hoffenberg accomplished a million times over in cold calculation with the swish of his pen.
From Gail Peterson of Redwood Shores, Calif.:
I hope Steven Hoffenberg receives the maximum penalty. Our investment was for renovations to our house. With the loss of our investments the end result was the loss of our 13-year marriage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The flamboyant Steven Hoffenberg in 1996. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOWERS FINANCIAL CORP

ORGANIZATION: TOWERS FINANCIAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); SENTENCING (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); LITIGATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); JUDGES (77%); AUDITS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PONZI SCHEMES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; SWEET, ROBERT W (JUDGE); HOFFENBERG, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



217 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Who's Right?;
Former Allies Torment Gingrich

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
BACK in January, in what seemed at the time to be Newt Gingrich's darkest hour, the Beltway conservatives rallied round. They thought Mr. Gingrich had his faults -- that he was ideologically unpredictable and turned to mush in Bill Clinton's hands. But the bold and energetic Georgian had, after all, brought them to the Promised Land, engineering Republican control of the House for the first time in 40 years, and they owed him. Besides, there was no one else to take his place.
Now, two months later, it is conservatives who are sounding the gongs against the Speaker. The man who made his reputation as a scourge of liberals and liberalism is under assault not from his left, but from his right. 
 Conservative critics accuse Mr. Gingrich of lack of purpose; the euphemism of the hour is "drift." But their problem with him has as much to do with ideology as with tactics. What they mean is that Mr. Gingrich is not acting like a conservative, that he has let them down.
 
Soft Spots
 They are angry that Mr. Gingrich has lately cast himself not in the bold colors of revolution but in the pastels of compromise. They are fuming at him for making overtures toward Jesse Jackson while slighting J. C. Watts, the only black Republican in the House. They accuse him of backing away from public pledges to try to repeal Federal affirmative action programs. And while the House hasn't done much in the last two months, the things it has done have vexed conservatives: it has, for example, approved a new tax (on air travel) and released money for family-planning programs overseas (which conservatives say promote abortions).
None of this might matter if it weren't for something more basic: Conservatives never considered Mr. Gingrich a member of the movement in the first place. In his early days, he was an environmentalist (he called himself "an ecologist," to take away the sting). He never allied himself with the conservative promoters of supply-side economics. While he supported many conservative ideas (lower taxes, smaller government, opposition to abortion), he was not known as a champion of any of them. His value was his strategic vision, not his ideology.
Like many successful politicians, Mr. Gingrich has always been more pragmatic than dogmatic. But in 1994, he burst into the public consciousness as the emblem of conservatism, inexact though that label may have been. In the flush of victory there was no need to distinguish the gradations of conservatism. He was, said David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union, "the Messiah."
Mr. Keene was one who dared two years ago to say publicly, "Newt is not a conservative," while quickly adding, then as now, "But he has done more for conservatives than anyone of our generation."
So, when the House reprimanded Mr. Gingrich for using tax-exempt funds to promote partisan goals and for providing untrue information to Congressional investigators, conservatives stuck by him. But not because he was a kindred soul. As Jeff Hollingsworth, executive director of the conservative union, put it: "The issue was larger than Newt himself. If liberals could derail him, they could derail the revolution."
But the ethics matter took its toll, and many on Capitol Hill say it has diminished the Speaker's power.
William J. Bennett, the conservative critic, says Mr. Gingrich's own "dirty hands" have undercut his effectiveness in criticizing President Clinton's questionable campaign fund-raising. "If he's throwing interceptions," Mr. Bennett says of the Speaker, "he should sit down."
The ethics matter took its toll in another way. Conservatives like big agendas. Mr. Gingrich first appeared as St. George who would slay the liberal welfare state, the self-described "transformational figure" who saw himself as (not merely at) the hub of civilization. This appeal, said one conservative, "made his moderate history tolerable."
But his scope has diminished, too. In one of his now-rare public appearances, addressing the Conservative Political Action Conference last week, he announced this battle plan for the 105th Congress: "We're going to be pleasant."
The conservatives were horrified, and they rose to speak against him to the same crowd from the same microphone, still warm from Mr. Gingrich's soft-sell.
Ralph Reed, executive director of the Christian Coalition, decried the Republican leadership's "muddle-headed moderation" as "a self-defeating strategy that is conceived in self-doubt and leads only to paralysis."
Mona Charen, the conservative columnist, said that by making nice to Jesse Jackson, the Speaker was "sucking up to the leftist elite." She added later, "He's trying to salvage his reputation by making a gesture toward the left."
Mr. Bennett said, without mentioning Mr. Gingrich's name but referring to his backpedaling on affirmative action: "If certain Republican leaders cannot summon the courage or the will to advance so fundamental an American principle as equality before the law, then they should step aside."
Late last week Mr. Gingrich gave them something else to fret about. He is planning a trip in early April to China, at a time of deepening concern among conservatives over human-rights abuses. Gary Bauer, head of the Family Research Council, said the trip "offends one of the most loyal elements of the conservative coalition that has stood behind him -- pro-family and religious conservatives."
Why are conservatives coming down so hard on the man who gave them a seat at the table?
Mona Charen said that it's a longstanding tradition. "The National Review excoriated Nixon and even Eisenhower," she said. "It's the role of the ideological types and think tanks and intellectuals to push things along. Politicians aren't usually in the vanguard."
 
The Lost Agenda
 Still, William Kristol, editor of the conservative journal The Weekly Standard, said that after sticking by the Speaker, conservatives are wondering what the point was. "What was the point of defending Gingrich if you don't get aggressive, risk-taking leadership, if you're going to have a timid Speaker who doesn't take on tough issues and can't produce anything more than a boring and pedestrian agenda?," Mr. Kristol said. "He seems to be trying to rehabilitate himself personally instead of leading the conservative movement. He's not trying to be an ideological leader; he's trying to be a nice guy."
But does the disaffection of Beltway conservatives spell doom for the Speaker? Not necessarily. There is still no one ready to take his place.
"It's not fair for us to say, 'Now that you're weak, we'll get rid of you,' " Mr. Keene said. "If he has talents, and if you owe him, and if you think if he gets his arm back he's still the best pitcher in the league, then you ought to give him some time."
This suits the Republican moderates just fine.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newt Gingrich, after meeting with the President on Capitol Hill last month. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX RELIEF (69%); ETHICS (69%); FAMILY PLANNING (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



218 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Sunny Forecast for Los Angeles Mayor

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 8

 BODY:
At a breakfast speech to a business group the other day, Mayor Richard J. Riordan, the affable Republican who took on the leadership of the nation's second-largest city four years ago, delivered a sunny summary of the state of his city: leadership in the fields of entertainment, biotechnology, international trade and apparel, and recovery from a devastating earthquake and riot.
"Today I stand here at Town Hall to declare, Los Angeles is on a roll," Mr. Riordan proclaimed. 
 Whether his sprawling, sun-drenched, smog-smudged city is really on a roll is a subject of perpetual debate among Angelenos, but there seems little doubt that Mr. Riordan himself is. A month before the nonpartisan city election in which he is seeking a second term, he has a 2-to-1 lead in the polls over his principal opponent, State Senator Tom Hayden, and a better than 10-to-1 advantage in fund-raising.
Last week, Mr. Riordan, a multimillionaire lawyer and businessman who had never run for office before winning City Hall in 1993, narrowly won the endorsement of the local branch of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., despite Mr. Hayden's celebrated support for the migrant workers of Cesar Chavez and three decades of association with liberal causes. On Thursday, the Mayor broadcast his first television commercial of the campaign, a feel-good hymn in which a narrator brags about "2,000 new cops," "30,000 new jobs" and "a good start from our great Mayor -- and he works for us for just $1 a year."
The commercial was made by Mr. Riordan's media team of Bill Carrick and Hank Morris, a pair of longtime Democrats who have worked for candidates from Senator Dianne Feinstein to the New York City Comptroller, Alan C. Hevesi, and their willingness to cross party lines to work for him is itself a sign of Mr. Riordan's broad, bipartisan appeal.
Mr. Hayden, the 1960's student protester who was once married to Jane Fonda and who has spent 15 years in the State Legislature, is running a grass-roots, shoestring campaign, but has been at some pains to get any traction. He has raised just about $200,000 (half of it from himself) to $2.4 million for Mr. Riordan, though he will eventually get more because he, unlike the Mayor, is taking part in the city's voluntary campaign finance system, which offers matching public money in exchange for limits on contributions and spending.
Mr. Hayden has also been hard pressed to make headway even among the minority groups, liberals and members of the entertainment industry who should be his natural base. Few give him much chance of holding Mr. Riordan below the majority vote needed to avoid a runoff.
"Tom shouldn't even be running," said Susan Estrich, a veteran Democrat who managed Michael S. Dukakis's Presidential campaign in 1988 and is an old friend of Mr. Hayden's but is supporting Mr. Riordan.
"He's 57 years old and he's having an identity crisis," she said. "I sat with him for hours to say, 'Don't do this.' It was clearly a suicide mission. Even his close friends, I don't think, think he has a chance."
It is not that Mr. Riordan is such a dynamo at the age of 66, though he does like to glide along at the beach with in-line skates. In contrast to his Republican counterpart in New York, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Riordan is a phlegmatic, aw-shucks sort, a halting public speaker with a tendency to step on his own lines and an unusual willingness to defer a question to a nearby aide. At his speech on the city's economy on Wednesday, he repeatedly mangled the tag line of his text, which proclaimed Los Angeles as the "capital city of the future," instead referring to it as "the capital city of the world."
"He's not polished, and I think that's what people like about him," said Noelia Rodriguez, the City Hall press secretary who is on leave to serve as the Mayor's campaign communications director.
But after prevailing four years ago over a crowded field to succeed Tom Bradley, the city's first black mayor, who served for 20 years, Mr. Riordan has worked tirelessly to reassure a city shaken by the 1992 riots and the police brutality that helped provoke them, overseeing the expansion of the police force to its largest level in history and presiding over a 25 percent drop in crime. "It all comes back to safety," he said in his speech.
Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the Center for Politics and Economics at the Claremont Graduate School, said the calculus was simple, especially in a city where the City Council, independent boards and the county government hold great sway and the mayor's powers are limited compared with cities like New York, Boston and Chicago.
"Riordan campaigned on two issues, jobs and public safety," Ms. Jeffe said, "and the perception among the electorate -- and I always make a distinction between the electorate and the rest of the city -- is that the economy is picking up and crime statistics are down. They're satisfied with the way things are going, so why get rid of a mayor?"
The Mayor, like Mr. Giuliani and President Clinton, has also adopted the prevailing bipartisan mantra of minimalist government mixed with activist volunteerism. Last week, for example, Mr. Riordan proposed a five-year freeze on city business taxes for businesses willing to relocate or stay in distressed urban areas, and set a goal of designating 15 new magnet schools for multimedia training, to be financed with $1 million from the private sector.
For his part, Mr. Hayden has the challenge of persuading voters who hope they have put the worst behind them that they are not as happy as they think. In his economic proposal, released a day ahead of Mr. Riordan's last week, Mr. Hayden chose to see the glass as half-full, emphasizing an increase in the number of local business failures and personal bankruptcies last year. And he proposed much more sweeping solutions, including a $250 million bond issue for multimedia schools to train the animators, technicians and computer graphics experts of the future.
Mr. Hayden's spokesman, Rocky Rushing, conceded a setback in losing the endorsement of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, but said it reflected the conservative bent of older union leadership.
"We knew it would be a fight to get it," Mr. Rushing said. "What I think it says is that the old guard is still in place in terms of leaders' embracing the status quo. I think Tom has very good relations with the younger activists who are shaking things up."
Paradoxically, Mr. Riordan and Mr. Hayden have a fair amount in common. Both share Celtic, Catholic roots, though Mr. Riordan has been far more active among lay Catholics as a longtime philanthropist, while Mr. Hayden, whose alienation from the church dates to its hawkish stance on the Vietnam War, has only lately begun to rediscover and celebrate the faith of his forebears.
Both also live in the wealthy enclave of Brentwood, since Mr. Hayden rented out his house in the adjoining beach-front city of Santa Monica to run for mayor this year, a fact that has let the Riordan campaign suggest he is a flaky carpetbagger by referring to him as "Santa Monica Senator Tom Hayden."
Mr. Hayden counters that Mr. Riordan's assertion of 30,000 new jobs ignores the reality that most of them are in low-wage occupations and the result of an economic cycle.
"For Riordan to claim credit for them," the Hayden economic position paper says, "is like Jack Nicholson claiming he scores Laker baskets by cheering."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard J. Riordan, left (Jim Wilson/The New York Times), who is seeking re-election to a second term as the Mayor of Los Angeles, holds a 2-1 lead in the polls and a 10-1 advantage in campaign fund-raising over State Senator Tom Hayden, right. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; ENDORSEMENTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); MIGRANT WORKERS (65%); EARTHQUAKES (56%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; RIORDAN, RICHARD J (MAYOR); HAYDEN, TOM (SEN) DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



219 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Dan E. Sweat Dies at 63; Guided Atlanta

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Dan E. Sweat Jr., a self-styled Federal bagman and municipal whipping boy who spent 30 years whipping Atlanta into modern shape as its premier civic administrator, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Atlanta. He was 63 and had been suffering from stomach cancer.
On paper, Mr. Sweat was never more than a high-profile functionary -- administrative assistant to Atlanta mayors, point man for the city's powerful downtown business interests and, later, coordinator of Jimmy Carter's ambitious urban cure-all known as the Atlanta Project. 
 Yet Mr. Sweat proved so adept at negotiating the city's political thicket and so adroit at securing Federal money for the myriad projects he dreamed up, designed and implemented for his patrons that he put his own stamp on the city.
Among other things, Mr. Sweat, who once described his job as "hustling Federal money," was credited with rescuing the Chattahoochee River and preserving the city's water supply, transforming an abandoned downtown tract into an integrated, mixed-income residential communiy, and spearheading programs intended to bring the city's black and white leaders together.
Along the way, he recruited and trained so many administrators that there is hardly a civic agency in the city without one of his proteges at the helm or in a high position.
Over the years, Mr. Sweat became so closely identified with virtually every facet of Atlanta's drive to put its racist past behind it and become a modern, enlightened city that it was easy to forget that he was not an Atlanta native but a railroad machinist's son from Waycross, Ga.
Or, as Mr. Sweat liked to put it when he was in an aw-shucks mood, he was an "old boy from the Okefenokee" who arrived in Atlanta on a Greyhound bus in 1952, at the age of 18, and never stopped referring to his adopted city as "up here."
Originally aiming for a career in journalism, Mr. Sweat enrolled in night courses at Georgia State University and took a daytime job as a reporter for The Atlanta Journal, but because the school had no journalism major, he graduated with a degree in public administration.
After a three-year stint as a naval officer, he returned to his job at The Journal, but he soon left to become the spokesman for the DeKalb County Commission chairman, Charles Emmerich, a legendary local reformer who was so impressed with Mr. Sweat that he quickly made him his chief administrative assistant.
After Mr. Emmerich's defeat in 1964, Mr. Sweat became associate executive director of Economic Opportunity Atlanta, an agency formed to attract and distribute Federal antipoverty money. So much of that money came in during Mr. Sweat's tenure that he was soon hired away by Mayor Ivan Allen Jr. as Atlanta's chief administrative officer, a post he also held under Mr. Allen's successor, Sam Massell.
After a year as executive director of the Atlanta Regional Commission in 1972, Mr. Sweat began a 15-year-run as president of Central Atlanta Progress, an association of downtown business leaders.
Under Mr. Sweat's direction, the association attacked Atlanta's problems on a broad front, stimulating construction, reclaiming the downtown area as a residential district and working with community groups on an array of programs to establish and strengthen ties between black and white Atlanta.
For Mr. Sweat, a tireless administrator who often worked long hours, it was not always smooth sailing.
A sometimes brusque man who could be impatient with municipal bureaucracy, Mr. Sweat, who made a career cutting through red tape, was often a lightning rod for criticism and had some monumental battles with city officials, including the city's first black Mayor, Maynard H. Jackson Jr. He once went so far as to bar a City Hall doorway to keep Mr. Jackson from storming out of a meeting.
Mr. Sweat, who left the association in 1988 to run a local foundation, was hired in 1991 by Mr. Carter to run the Atlanta Project, which seeks to solve virtually every urban problem through cooperative efforts of business and community groups. He remained until 1995.
He is survived by his mother, Kathleen Sweat of Waverly, Ga.,; his wife, Tally; a daughter, Sally, of Waverly; two sons, Stephen, of Atlanta and Charles, of LaGrange, Ga.; five sisters, Elouise McCrary of Brunswick, Ga., Ruth Lopez of High Springs, Fla., and Merle Kimbrell, Linda Strickland and Vivian Ragan, all of Waverly, and four grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan E. Sweat Jr. (Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); EXECUTIVES (89%); JOURNALISM (85%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); CANCER (72%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: SWEAT, DAN E JR; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR JIMMY CARTER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



220 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Retirement Planning for Too Much of a Good Thing

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
THE notion that Congress might enact a tax break and that accountants would advise their clients to go easy on taking advantage of it would seem about as likely as children deciding on Christmas morning to go easy on opening their presents. Yet, it has happened -- the tax break part, that is.
The break, a complicated one, concerns tax-deferred retirement plans, an area in which Congress passed significant legislation in 1996. For three years, beginning this year, taxpayers older than 59 1/2 can take as much as they like out of I.R.A.'s, Keogh plans, employer-sponsored pension plans or 401(k) or 403(b) plans without having to pay the 15 percent excise tax that would normally be owed on 1997 distributions exceeding $160,000, or $800,000 for a lump-sum payout. 
 Years ago, Congress decided to defer taxes both on deposits into qualified retirement plans and on the income they earned until withdrawn. The point was to encourage retirement savings. But to make sure such generosity was not abused, Congress also decided on a series of penalties: for early withdrawal, for failing to take money out on time, for excess distributions and, finally, when estates were left with big balances, for excess accumulation.
With the stock market's boom, many people now have the problem of their dreams. Their retirement plans have grown so much that plan holders are likely to incur excess distribution penalties, or -- if the money stays in the accounts -- their estates may be gutted by a combination of estate taxes, which reach as high as 55 percent at the Federal level, income taxes and the 15 percent excess-accumulation excise tax.
"Some retirement plans have doubled in the past year," said Edward A. Slott, a partner in E. Slott & Company, an accounting firm in Rockville Centre, L.I. "A million dollars is not uncommon anymore. The average person's largest asset is often an I.R.A." Many people who quit a job or retire early roll over money from a corporate plan into an I.R.A.
SO Congress offered such taxpayers a three-year opportunity to withdraw big sums free of the excise tax. Yet accountants are counseling caution.
"It's a great temptation, but you still have to pay ordinary income tax" on any money withdrawn, said Stephen Pennacchio, a partner with KPMG Peat Marwick in New York. In doing numerous calculations for clients, he said he has found that "in most cases it is beneficial to leave the money in" for continued tax-deferred growth.
Avery E. Neumark, director of employee benefits and executive compensation for the New York accounting firm of Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company, said he was "not rushing to have clients take money out."
"If you are going to do anything," he said, "wait until the third year" and let the account grow in the meantime.
Besides, he said, he saw "a very good possibility the excise tax won't be reinstated." Unless a person's individual circumstances warrant taking money out now, Mr. Neumark said he would prefer to see what happened in the next couple of years.
In deciding whether to make large withdrawals or to leave the money to grow tax-free and eventually pay the excise tax, considerations include account balances, a person's projected tax rate, projected inflation rate, the expected annual return on investment, life expectancy and what use will be made of the money withdrawn.
In general, the longer money remains in a plan and the higher the rate of return, the more likely that the advantage of tax-deferred growth, even with an eventual excise tax, will outweigh the benefit of pulling out money now to avoid the excise tax.
However, if the taxpayer is very elderly or terminally ill or if the plan is earning little, withdrawing money now makes sense, as it may for someone who has a specific use in mind for the money, like starting a new business.
Mr. Neumark, who is chairman of the employee benefits committee of the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants, cited calculations for a taxpayer with a combined Federal and state income tax rate of 45 percent, assuming that a deferred distribution would be subject to the excise tax that would be avoided now.
With only a 2 percent annual rate of return on the retirement plan, the taxpayer would be better off withdrawing the money now. With a 4 percent return, the money would have to stay in 20 years for tax-free growth to be the better deal; at 6 percent, it would take 12 years; at 8 percent, 10 years; at 10 percent, 8 years; at 12 percent, 7 years, and at 14 percent, 6 years.
STILL, people do not run their lives strictly by the numbers. Raymond G. Russolillo, director of financial education services for Coopers & Lybrand, cited an example of a client, age 70 1/2, who had not yet taken any distributions, so he was eligible for a lump-sum distribution with five-year forward averaging -- a tax benefit that is scheduled to expire after Dec. 31, 1999. (It allows taxpayers, using Form 4972, to stretch out the tax payments over five years.) The client chose to take the money out of his plan now, pay the income tax and avoid the excise tax.
Strictly from a tax standpoint, it would probably have been better to make his granddaughter the plan's beneficiary and minimize distributions. But the client wanted the money to go to his wife, and he wanted it now, "so his goals and objectives take precedence," Mr. Russolillo said.
People whose total assets exceed $600,000 and who want to be sure their money goes to their families or to favorite charities may want to make some withdrawals now and begin making gifts, said Mr. Slott, author of "Your Tax Questions Answered" (Plymouth Press, 1997). A person may give as much as $10,000 to each recipient annually with no gift or estate tax consequence.
Mr. Pennacchio agreed with that advice, noting that otherwise, "After estate tax, income tax and excise tax, the kids can get 10, 12, 14 cents on the dollar."
People who reached 70 1/2 last year must begin making at least minimum withdrawals from their I.R.A.'s by April 1 of this year, Mr. Neumark noted, "and if you don't, you must pay a 50 percent excise tax" on the amount that should have been withdrawn.
Thanks to another change, effective this year, he added, "you may be able to delay taking minimum distributions from your employer's pension plan at age 70 1/2 if you are still working," as are many people, especially entrepreneurs.
However, Joel S. Isaacson, who heads his own New York accounting and financial planning firm, cautioned that here, too, because of possible estate-tax problems resulting from excess accumulations, it would still make sense for many people to begin taking out money by 70 1/2.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about distributions from retirement plans referred incorrectly to the tax benefit known as five-year forward averaging. A lump-sum distribution is treated as if the income were received over five years, thus lowering the tax owed, but the tax is paid in one year, not five.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "When to Take the Medicine" shows what $100 in tax-deferred savings would be worth if left until retirement or withdrawn and put in a taxable investment at the same return. (Source: Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (88%); ESTATE TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); US KEOGH PLANS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



221 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
With Bonds, Colleges Can Get Topsy-Turvy

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
FORGET everything you've ever heard about what makes a top school. When it comes to higher-education debt ratings -- admittedly a little more obscure a detail than, say, the size of the library, the success of the swim team or the proportion of Ph.D.'s on the faculty -- tiny Grinnell College is right up there with Harvard, Yale and Princeton.
Like those three famous institutions, Grinnell, a solid liberal arts college in Grinnell, Iowa, with an enrollment of 1,300, has a AAA rating from Moody's Investors Service for its bonds. "Their endowment and their assets are so large relative to their modest amount of debt," said John Nelson, an analyst with Moody's. "It's half a billion versus $10 million in debt." 
On the other side of the fence is Georgetown University, which, despite its great fame, has some credit strikes against it. "They have not historically been strong at raising funds," Mr. Nelson said. "Plus they run a teaching hospital, and they are in an urban area, and the hospital is in the District of Columbia. Those things are all weak credit factors." Thus, Georgetown has an A-1 rating from Moody's, in the middle of the investment-grade risk spectrum.
Looking at a college's bonds may never become the primary way for prospective freshmen and their parents to size up a school. But they, along with investors, may want to pay greater attention to these mostly tax-exempt debt offerings. Schools often use them to finance projects like new dormitories, or rewiring old ones for the information age.
"Deferred maintenance is the big issue," says Mary Peloquin-Dodd, a director at Standard & Poor's ratings group who follows nonprofit debt. "Our feeling is that over the last two years, colleges and universities have really tried to dig into their deferred maintenance, and it certainly has affected the market."
Last year, $9.1 billion in tax-exempt debt was issued by the nation's public and private universities, up from $6.8 billion in 1995, said Patrick Hannigan, the higher-education analyst at Morgan Stanley.
The number of schools in debt has risen, too. Statistics are sketchy, but perhaps as many as one-third of the nation's 3,600 colleges and universities have bonds or bank loans outstanding, up substantially from 10 years ago, Ms. Peloquin-Dodd said.
Higher education tends to get a warm reception in the bond market. "There is a general view that these places can withstand pressures and have managed to survive through some pretty serious turmoil," said Fred Prager, whose San Francisco firm, Prager, McCarthy & Sealy, underwrites many such offerings. "Higher-education credits trade as a class better than hospitals and can do better than general-obligation debt and housing and utility bonds."
This high regard means that investors in school bonds are willing to accept yields that are, for example, 10 to 20 basis points lower than that of otherwise similar hospital bonds. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.)
Nevertheless, as more colleges issue bonds, the number of risky offerings is growing. While nearly 30 colleges and universities join Grinnell in receiving the highest ratings from either Moody's or Standard & Poor's -- others include Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Rockefeller University and California Institute of Technology -- the two ratings services say more colleges are on the speculative-grade list than ever before. For Moody's, this means a rating below Baa3; for Standard & Poor's, BBB-.
Four schools rated by Standard & Poor's are in this "below investment grade" category: Odessa Junior College in Texas, Anderson University in Indiana, Wagner College on Staten Island and Seton Hill College in Pennsylvania. Moody's also has Odessa Junior College on its below-investment-grade list, along with three others: Bennington College in Vermont, Colby-Sawyer College in New Hampshire and the University of Hartford in Connecticut.
HOW did these places get sent to study hall, financially speaking? To rate bonds, Ms. Peloquin-Dodd said, she looks at not only a school's finances and debt, but also at its management and the prospective student interest in the school -- something that can fluctuate, often with dire results.
Consider Bennington College, which Moody's has rated below investment grade since 1995, and the University of Hartford, which saw Moody's lower its rating to below investment grade in January.
Because fewer high school students were moving through the college-bound pipeline, Bennington, like many other colleges, saw applications shrink. While the school tried to turn things around by dismissing a lot of faculty members, fewer students meant less income. "They spent down most of their endowment," Mr. Nelson said.
Michael Leary, a spokesman for Bennington, said the school was working on its problems. "We've continued to show an improvement in our enrollment," he said, with the freshman class growing from 78 in 1995 to 119 last year. Total enrollment is just 189, though, down from 500 before the restructuring.
At the University of Hartford, the nationwide drop in the number of high school students has forced the school, like others, to dangle full and partial scholarships before prospective students to fill seats.
So even though Hartford's class size has remained the same, its revenue is much lower, said Naomi Richman, another Moody's analyst. At the same time, widespread layoffs in two pillars of the local economy, the military and insurance industries, have undercut the continuing-education program, which has long subsidized the undergraduate school.
"So they had a double whammy," Ms. Richman said. "They have had an operating deficit for the last five years. We think they are likely to survive, but are much more vulnerable to any kind of a disruption."
David Isgur, a spokesman for the University of Hartford, said the school had already taken major steps to turn itself around by the time Moody's downgraded its bonds.
"The agency did say the outlook for the university is stable," Mr. Isgur said, "and we see this as a reflection of the success we have already had in significantly reducing our deficit." He added that the university expects to have a balanced budget by next year, and that admissions do not seem to have been affected by the rating.
But a lower rating does increase a school's borrowing costs. For each "notch" that a rating drops, said Mr. Prager, the yields that investors demand rise from 5 or 10 basis points to 40 or more, depending on market volatility and which notches are involved. Of course, lower ratings mean lower resale values and higher risk, too. But Mr. Nelson said that no college rated by Moody's had ever defaulted, although not all carry insurance to reimburse investors in the event of a default.
Whether their tastes run to AAA ratings or to something chancier, investors can go directly to their brokers to buy school bonds, which are typically offered in denominations as low as $5,000. Many mutual funds also invest in the bonds.
But don't expect schools to peddle the bonds to their own graduates. "There's a finite amount of alumni money out there, and you don't want to draw on it and have to pay it back when you can draw on it and not pay it back," Mr. Prager said.
Secondary schools, meanwhile, are learning from their cousins in higher education, issuing bonds of their own. "That's an emerging market," Ms. Peloquin-Dodd said.
In that group, Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, N.H., got the red-carpet treatment with a AA+ rating, the highest rating that Standard & Poor's bestows on such schools. Another New Hampshire school, Brewster Academy, had a bumpier ride and wound up with a Baa3 score from Moody's.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about debt ratings of colleges and universities misstated the enrollment of Bennington College. It is 289, not 189.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sizing up colleges on the basis of bond ratings may yield surprises. Although it is far better known, Georgetown University, top, runs behind Grinnell College of Iowa, above, in Moody's debt ratings. (Guido Cassetta for The New York Times; Steve Pope for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Bottom of the Class"
Whatever their academic reputations, these schools have flunked financially: Their bonds are rated below investment grade by one of the two major credit-rating services.
 
Anderson University
Anderson, Ind.
Debt: $6.4 million
Ratings service: Standard & Poor's
Rating: BB-
Reasons: Unsound investment in lumber company, declining endowment
 
Bennington College
Bennington, Vt.
Debt: $2 million.
Ratings service: Moody's
Rating: B3
Reasons: Small size; declining enrollment
 
Colby-Sawyer College
New London, N.H.
Debt: $10.5 million
Ratings service: Moody's.
Rating: Ba1.
Reasons: Small size, few assets
 
University of Hartford
West Hartford, Conn.
Debt: $81 million
Ratings service: Moody's
Rating: Ba2
Reasons: Weak local economy, operating deficits
 
Odessa Junior College
Odessa, Tex.
Debt: $29.3 million.
Ratings service: Standard & Poor's
Rating: BB stable
Reasons: High debt; falling property tax revenues, to which this public school's finances are tied
 
Seton Hill College
Greenburg, Pa.
Debt: $1.5 million
Ratings service: Standard & Poor's
Rating: BB
Reasons: Declining enrollment; operating deficits for four years in a row
 
Wagner College
Staten Island, N.Y.
Debt: $22 million
Ratings service: Standard & Poor's
Rating: BB
Reasons: High debt; little unrestricted cash available

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



222 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3917 words

HEADLINE: Downsized, but Not Out: A Mill Town's Tale

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER 

DATELINE: BIDDEFORD, Me.

 BODY:
FOR more than a century, outsiders controlled the economic destiny of the men and women who toiled in the textile mills of this coastal town south of Portland.
Whether those who held this power were faceless Boston bankers, Southern textile brokers or Wall Street portfolio managers didn't matter much to the millworkers. Owners came and went, and the only visible sign of each transition was a new company name printed on payroll checks. 
 So when word spread last July that Albert J. Dunlap had been hired as the chairman of the Sunbeam Corporation, owner of the Biddeford Textile Company, the 352 workers at the mill took the news calmly, expecting some manner of corporate shake-up but confident that their jobs were safe.
After all, they reassured one another, they helped produce Sunbeam's popular, and profitable, "Beauty With a Brain" line of electric blankets. True, the controls and wiring were manufactured in Mississippi and Mexico, but the fabric "shells" -- some four million of them last year -- were woven for Sunbeam exclusively on Biddeford Textile looms. Once finished, the electric blankets were shipped to department stores across the country and sold for up to $179.
But Mr. Dunlap didn't get his nickname "Chainsaw Al" for nothing. In November, he announced that the Biddeford plant would be either shut down or sold as part of his plan to slash Sunbeam's overall work force in half. When Robert B. Reich, then the nation's Labor Secretary, described the move as "treating employees as if they are disposable pieces of equipment," Mr. Dunlap brushed off the criticism and said his first obligation was to the shareholders who hired him to make the company profitable.
The mill hands reacted to the thunderbolt much as most people deal with death -- with disbelief, anger and depression. They have resisted, so far, only the last stage: acceptance.
Perhaps they should have seen it coming. It was no secret that Mr. Dunlap had joined Sunbeam after lopping off 11,200 workers, one-third of the work force, at the Scott Paper Company in a mere 28 months, earning $100 million for his trouble. And the Biddeford workers' blankets, though of high quality, are far from high technology. It would be far cheaper to make them in a third world country.
Moreover, plant closings are hardly unusual these days. About 10 times a week, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a big factory shuts down somewhere in the United States, throwing an average of 190 people out of work with each closing. And those figures do not include the even larger number of mining and construction sites and service-company workplaces that are shuttered.
But these are ordinary folks -- on the flip side of the investing public's obsession with the surging Dow Jones industrial average and the performance of its mutual funds. Many live from paycheck to paycheck, contribute to a modest union pension, but have no 401(k) plans or stock options.
The Biddeford mill work force, including managers who worry as much about their own futures, now stands at under 300 because of winter layoffs. Few jobs in the local market come close to the $9 to $13 an hour that workers are paid to tend the thrumming weaving machines. Mill hands rely on a tradition of grit to see them through hard times, which in textiles in New England is almost a full-time job.

Unraveling of a Mill Town
That tradition goes back a long way. It is hard to imagine today, but this town was once a cradle of American industry, beginning in 1826 when the largest cotton mill in the country was built on an island where the Saco River plunged into spray-tossing cataracts. As production peaked earlier in this century, nearly 6,000 textile workers in different mills flooded the streets during shift changes.
Yankee farmhands were the first millworkers, subsequently replaced by Irish immigrants and French-Canadians who trekked from rural Quebec, sometimes by foot, as production expanded and more cheap labor was needed. In this century, as New England textile mills bled jobs to Southern states with nonunion labor, companies were sold, merged or went out of business.
With no money or political power to speak of, the mill hands relied on grit as their main weapon against anguish while waiting for Mr. Dunlap to decide whether to close or sell the mill. By year's end, few of them had any illusions about a boss who wrote a book called "Mean Business" and who relished his reputation as a tough guy with a mission from shareholders to clean up the mess left by his predecessors.
Yet grit alone would not be enough to prevail against the executive suites of Sunbeam's South Florida headquarters. In the end, however, millworkers may be saved from the scrap heap of modern corporate history through a union effort to negotiate an employee stock ownership plan with the help of a private investor and a mill manager who -- in their eyes -- is as much a hero as Mr. Dunlap is a villain.

Rumors, Hope and Anger
The workers' first reaction to Mr. Dunlap's November announcement was shocked disbelief and bafflement. "We've been working a lot of overtime this year, so no one guessed it would be this bad," muttered Rosaire Breault a few days before Thanksgiving, as he downed an early-morning $1 pint of beer at Pop's, a workers' hangout a block from the mill. "We've always been a profitable place for Sunbeam. They've always made a buck here."
Rumors were still flying about Sunbeam's intentions, and Mr. Breault was under the false impression that Mr. Dunlap had set a Jan. 1 deadline for deciding whether to jettison the Biddeford factory. Weary from working the overnight shift, he looked out the window in silence for a while as the first snowfall of the season dusted the parked cars outside.
"The thing nobody can figure out is, Why would Dunlap want to get rid of the only mill that makes shells for the electric blanket line he wants to keep?" he finally said. "It doesn't make sense."
Just down the street from Pop's, a similar incredulity reigned at the meeting hall of Local 1856 of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. A few members had gathered in an upstairs office, and they were in a combative mood.
They suspected that Sunbeam had a hidden agenda: It would either bust the union contract and cut wages and health plan benefits, or it would sell the mill to a buyer who would crate up its modern machines and relocate production closer to Sunbeam's Mississippi plant, where the shells are shipped to be fitted with electrical-heating components.
"Why else would they sell their only supplier?" asked Ray Tilton, president of the local and the third generation in his family to work in the mill. "It's like making an engine without a car to put it in."
"We're being sold because we're in the Northeast and a union shop," shot back Wally Szumita, another union official.
"There are a lot of half-empty textile mills in the South that would be happy to be Sunbeam's supplier," interjected Michael J. Cavanaugh, assistant manager of the union's regional board.
The conversation soon veered into wishful thinking. "They have no experience down there making blanket shells," declared Mr. Tilton, who works a second job driving a taxi at night. "We have all the skills and the experience. No one else could do what we do. Not those Rebels, anyway."
Mr. Szumita picked up the theme. "Not taking anything away from these Southerners," he rasped, "but you can't find a good work force down there like you can here. Here the millworker takes pride in his work and will work 60 hours a week, every week, if you ask him."
Others in the room nodded agreement. endorsing a long-held sentiment. However, manufacturing workers in the South today can often earn as much as Biddeford's unionized workers. But that fact is tough to accept in a union hall whose members fear more job losses.
"Compare our blankets with what they produce down there," he continued. "Theirs are like a rag. If you went down there and said you were a millworker from Maine. they'd hire you in a heartbeat," he said, snapping his fingers for punctuation.
Rita LaChance had listened to the exchange quietly. But when she spoke, the others fell silent.
It is an axiom of the mill that the closer a job places a worker to the loom, the higher he or she is in the pecking order, both for pay and respect. And Mrs. LaChance, a gray-haired grandmother with a commanding voice that seems made of polished steel, stands atop the hierarchy. She has worked in textile mills for 42 years and is the head weaver at Biddeford Textile, in charge of setting the patterns that tell the automated looms what to weave.
"Any company can weave our shells if they have our patterns," she said flatly, bringing the conversation down to earth.
Recently installed modern machinery at the mill could be shipped almost anywhere, she said, even to Mexico.
"I have the feeling, Ray," she said, softly now, as she looked at Mr. Tilton, "if they wanted to move us down South they could do it. That's what scares me."
"I don't know," replied Mr. Tilton, a little deflated but refusing to concede defeat. "We have all the experience. The tradition. Our families are here."
"They could retrain workers and get it done in six months," Mrs. LaChance said, pursing her lips with conviction.
"Family, traditions -- that means this much to Al Dunlap," said another person in the room, forming a zero with his thumb and forefinger.
"Well, if some new owner comes in here and tells us to renegotiate our contract and cut benefits or he'll move South," Mr. Szumita retorted, growing angrier, "we're going to tell him to take his company and get the hell out of town!"
Similar scenes unfolded throughout this town of 21,000 in the early days. But the mood of defiance was hard to maintain against a faraway autocrat who held all the cards. By mid-December, it was giving way to fear in the mill families' lives.

Specter of Minimum Wage
Already, some millworkers were being idled in seasonal layoffs and other cutbacks. The rest were picking up their weekly paychecks not knowing whether each payment would be their last. Then, the week before Christmas, the mill was idled for repairs to a smokestack. There was no work and no pay.
Suddenly, what bravado remained had an an air of desperation. "I ain't going to let Al Dunlap spoil Christmas," Norm Gagnon sang out a little too brightly on a cold morning as sunshine streamed into his new kitchen.
Last spring, Mr. Gagnon, 48, who had worked at the mill since 1974 as a carding-machine operator, and his wife Sharolyn, took out a $75,000 bank loan to remodel their home. That was a lot of money for a couple whose combined income at the time -- she made $11.99 an hour as a trouble-shooter in the spinning unit, he earned $10.44 -- totaled $900 a week. But, they figured, with overtime and with the extra money they made from their home photo-and-video sideline and her work as an Avon lady, they could afford to meet the repayments and pay the extra property taxes, totaling $300 a week.
"If we'd known what was coming we'd have never taken that loan," Mrs. Gagnon said. "But we're better off than most because we work at other jobs." Under a Christmas tree in the living room were piles of brightly wrapped gifts. "We saved $1,500 in our Christmas club," she added. "Not even Dunlap was going to take Christmas away from us."
She was wrong. Two days before Christmas, Mr. Gagnon was laid off with 37 other millworkers. The gift exchange with relatives the next day was a somber affair, and things have not improved. Now on $210-a-week unemployment, Mr. Gagnon has found little in the help-wanted ads that offers him much hope. "The only jobs listed were picking shrimp or working in a warehouse for six or seven bucks an hour," he reported.
The threat of losing their textile jobs -- and dropping down the economic ladder to within a couple of rungs of the minimum wage -- haunts the workforce. Millwork is hard, dusty, noisy and repetitive, requiring a high tolerance for boredom. But here, at least, it beats the alternatives.
"In most cities the mills would be considered employers of last resort, but in Biddeford it's the cream," said Charles Butler Jr., head of the local historical society. "Jobs pass down in families from one generation to the next because the wages and health benefits are good compared to anything else available in town."
Marge Perry, 39, a single mother who earns $12.37 an hour as a weaver, foresees a grim future if the Sunbeam plant closes. There is only one other textile plant in town, owned by West Point Stevens of West Point, Ga., but openings are scarce. About the only other job prospects are low-paying, menial work. "I'll have to work two jobs just to make what I do now," she said wearily.

Local Hero Plans a Rescue
But maybe the mill won't close, after all.
If there is a hero in this story, it is probably Rene Boisvert, Biddeford Textile's top executive who resigned in December rather than oversee the possible destruction of the company he had helped create.
As quiet as Mr. Dunlap is brash, Mr. Boisvert (his full name is pronounced RAIN-ee BO-vye) is the model boss who came up through the ranks. Though he refuses to give his age, he says he started out 43 years ago on the production line at the Biddeford mill, then owned by West Point-Pepperell (since renamed West Point Stevens). When West Point-Pepperell's blanket division was having problems, Mr. Boisvert helped arrange its sale to Sunbeam in 1971. It was then renamed Biddeford Textile, with Mr. Boisvert in charge.
After Sunbeam took over, ultimately becoming the only producer of electric blankets in the country, he never forgot his roots, making a practice of strolling on the production floor in his shirt sleeves and soliciting the workers' views on production improvements. His former charges talk about him in tones approaching reverence, and at first, his departure prompted despair.
"We feel Rene was the only one looking out for the workers," Mrs. Gagnon said. But instead of heading for the sunny South, Mr. Boisvert got into the thick of negotiations to find a way to salvage his mill.
The discussions, involving city and state officials, the union and Sunbeam, had begun almost as soon as Mr. Dunlap announced his intention to rid his company of the plant. Sunbeam assigned its investment bank, Chase Securities, a unit of Chase Manhattan, the task of seeking potential buyers. The union, for its part, engaged American Capital Strategies of Bethesda, Md., an investment bank that specializes in helping labor unions develop employee stock ownership plans to buy their companies, troubled or not. American Strategies helped Northwest Airlines employees with a limited buyout in 1993, for example.
As January came and went without any developments, the remaining management team appeared as much in the dark as the workers about the mill's fate. "Just like us, they don't know if they'll have a job when they show up for work tomorrow," said Ms. Perry, the weaver.
Adding to the somber tone was news in January that a profitable Sunbeam unit in McMinnville, Tenn., which had been spared the Dunlap ax in November, was being closed and the operation moved to Mexico, at a loss of 650 jobs.
As the talks in Biddeford progressed, details of a possible solution leaked out. An outside investor -- Michael Liberty, a Portland real-estate developer -- was willing to take a large stake in a new company that would buy the plant from Sunbeam for an unspecified sum. His two equity partners would be American Capital Strategies and the millworkers, who would make pay and benefits concessions in return for their stake.
Mr. Dunlap, professing enthusiasm for the proposed agreement, pledged to continue buying the blankets for several years. He also said he would welcome efforts by the new company to sell blankets to other buyers; already, it sells one-tenth of its annual production to airlines and prisons.
And running the show, as of old, would be Mr. Boisvert, who would take the title of president and chief executive of the new concern.
The prospect of Mr. Boisvert's return heartened the rank and file as nothing else had throughout the cold winter. "Rene is well-off enough to be playing golf in Florida this winter, but he really cares about the people who work at the mill and what happens to them," said a union member who requested anonymity, fearing that any comment on the record might be seized by Mr. Dunlap as an excuse to torpedo talks.
Late last month, the group signed a letter of intent with Sunbeam to buy the mill and was given exclusive rights to close the deal by later this month. Confidentiality agreements have kept all the principals and their agents from commenting on all aspects of the pact.
However, a Sunbeam official said the company was "confident" the sale to the workers could be achieved. John DeSimone, Sunbeam's director of investor relations, said Sunbeam had talked with other potential buyers, but that the Biddeford group "is our first choice of the organizations we would like to sell the company to." Mr. DeSimone also said that Sunbeam was prepared to offer the worker group a five-year guaranteed supply contract. Sunbeam's agreement to buy all its electric-blanket shells from the Biddeford mill would give the factory a secure base for growth. And growth seems possible for this mill, especially now that Sunbeam is the only producer of electric blankets in the United States. Though electric-blanket sales dipped in the early 1990's, corresponding with consumer concern about the possible link between cancer and the electromagnetic fields they generate, those fears have been allayed somewhat by a National Research Council study that found no evidence of such a hazard. The Biddeford mill, meanwhile, has been modernized and it doubled production of electric-blanket shells from two million in 1990 to four million last year.
Last Sunday, the outside investors held a series of closed meetings with union members in Biddeford's City Hall to lay out their plans. With the memory of another local employee-ownership experiment that had failed still fresh in the minds of participants, several workers asked pointed questions about their own prospects. They listened quietly but respectfully to the answers, with one exception -- every time Mr. Boisvert spoke, they applauded.
"We left the meeting feeling a little skeptical," reported Michael Boisvert (no relation to Rene), a 41-year old spinning-frame repairman who has worked at the mill since high school. "We can negotiate what we feel we can give back in wages or benefits, but you can't expect us to work all week and not eat. If they want more than we can give, they can forget about it."
He had a reason for some pessimism. His wife, Barbara, had been involved in a similar employee-buyout effort at a local company named John Roberts, which made men's apparel. That attempt to save jobs collapsed in 1994 after three years.
"The last two years were terrible, with the workers scared into making concessions like giving up 6 percent of their wages, all vacations and holidays, and they still had to shut down," Mrs. Boisvert said.
For all that disquieting precedent, Mr. Cavanaugh, the union official, said any parallel to Biddeford Textile would be a stretch. John Roberts was in bankruptcy proceedings when the buyout plan was started as a last-ditch attempt to save jobs, he said. By contrast, he said, the local Sunbeam plant "is very healthy, profitable and a leader in its industry."
Moreover, he added, invoking the name of the man of the hour, "This group, headed by Rene Boisvert, has leadership and management skills everyone respects."

Yanked by the Stock Market
The workers' optimism may be justified, according to Corey Rosen, executive director of the National Center for Employee Ownership, an advocacy group in Oakland, Calif. Prospects for employee buyouts of financially healthy companies generally are favorable, he said, if workers are not asked to make excessive concessions and if the former owner stays involved. "So much depends on keeping a good relationship with the former parent to maintain guarantees about buying the product," Mr. Rosen said.
Now, as the clock ticks toward the deadline for closing the deal, the tension in Biddeford is almost palpable. Last Tuesday, Sunbeam officials met with Mr. Boisvert and union representatives to begin final negotiations on the sale, while a union team began work on concession proposals that would be put to a vote by the rank and file.
Although the principals of the buying group remained tightlipped about final deals of an agreement, Mr. Boisvert seemed at pains to temper worker hostility toward the Sunbeam chief. "We appreciate the opportunity Mr. Dunlap has given the workers to buy Biddeford Textile," he said last Thursday during a break in the negotiations. "We have had a long and friendly relationship with Sunbeam and we hope to continue making shells for the company for some time to come."
If the deal goes through -- and most people expect it will -- the workers may need some time to get over their bitterness toward Mr. Dunlap, the man they blame for making their lives miserable. "He has caused me more stress than the cancer surgery I had four years ago," said Ms. Perry, the 39-year-old single mother. "But Chain Saw Al doesn't care who he steps on and squashes, as long as he gets paid his millions."
Mr. Dunlap brushes off such characterizations as misguided. "Everyone whose job is threatened sees me as the villain because I am the visible symbol of change," he said in an interview during the midwinter International Housewares Show in Chicago, where he met with representatives of major retailers under banners heralding the company's new slogan: "There's a New Sunbeam Shining -- Now There's a Bright Idea."
Mr. Dunlap remained unrepentant about the large-scale layoffs that Sunbeam has conducted nationwide. "At the end of the day, I feel I've rescued 6,000 jobs that would've been lost because Sunbeam had become a basket case and would've gone out of business this year unless drastic changes were made," the West Point-trained paratroop officer said with square-jawed command. Indeed, Sunbeam's stock has vaulted from about $12.50 a share to more than $30 since he took charge.
Whatever the outcome of the buyout attempt, the decision would not have many repercussions outside of Biddeford. It is a turn of events in an out-of-the-way place, but hardly one that will be noticed beyond the kitchens and parlors of the troubled workers.
The Republican Mayor of Biddeford, James M. Grattelo, a businessman who owns an amusement park in Portsmouth, N.H., said there might be another villain in this story: The millions of people who have hitched a ride on the biggest bull market run in American stock-market history. It is these shareholders and their mutual-fund managers who put unremitting pressure on companies to raise stock prices, whatever the human cost, he suggested.
"Al Dunlap's not stupid and he's not a monster," Mr. Grattelo said over lunch shortly after the November announcement. "I don't want to defend him but he didn't create the stock market. We did. Businessmen, investors, people all around the country. They hold mutual funds, they have 401(k)'s. They want profits."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture last Sunday with an article about a planned buyout of a Sunbeam Corporation textile plant in Biddeford, Me., was published in error. It showed part of the former Bates textile operations in Saco, across the Saco River from Biddeford.
A picture caption misidentified two men involved in negotiations for the buyout. At left at the head of the table was Michael Cavanaugh, assistant manager of the regional board of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, not Rene Boisvert, the former top executive of the Biddeford mill. Next to Mr. Cavanaugh was Wally Szumita, business agent for Local 1856 of the union.
The article also misstated the party affiliation of the Mayor of Biddeford, James M. Grattelo. He is a Democrat, not a Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A king-size Sunbeam Smart Automatic blanket; The Sunbeam mill at the falls of the Saco River in Bidderford, Me. (Scott Perry for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Norman and Sharolyn Gagnon remodeled their home with a $75,000 bank loan taken out before they learned their jobs at the Biddeford Textile mill were in jeopardy. Two days before Christmas, Mr. Gagnon was laid off. (Scott Perry for The New York Times);
Rene Boisvert, left, former president of the Biddeford mill, met on Tuesday with the union official Michael Cavanaugh, right, and managers to negotiate an employee buyout that workers hope could save their jobs. (Herb Swanson for The New York Times) (pg. 12); Albert J. Dunlap, Sunbeam's chairman, who wants to get rid of the Biddeford mill, said he welcomed its workers' efforts to buy it. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Graph: "ELECTRIC BLANKETS"
The first electric blanket is believed to have been made by the Simmons Company in 1946 and sold for $39.50, or $318 in today's dollars. Graph shows domestic shipments of electric blankets, 1986-95. (Sources: Appliance magazine; Famous First Facts); "CORPORATE OWNER: Sunbeam Corp" shows weekly closes of Sunbeam Corp., 1996-1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Chart: "PLANT AT A GLANCE"
 
LOCATION -- Biddeford, Me., about 20 miles south of Portland.
LOCAL POPULATION -- 21,000.
WHEN BUILT -- More than a century ago. Current company formed in 1971 when Sunbeam bought it from West Point-Pepperell.
PRIMARY PRODUCT -- The fabric -- or shells -- for electric blankets. (About 10 percent of production is dedicated to making conventional blankets.)
AVERAGE RETAIL PRICE -- $50 to $179, dependig mostly on size.
HOW MANY MADE IN 1996 -- Four million, just about every blanket shipped domestically.
LAST DOMESTIC COMPETITOR -- Fieldcrest, which has not made them since 1991.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES -- Under 300, down from 671 at its peak in 1981. Roughly one out of every 70 townspeople are employed by the plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (71%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BIDDEFORD TEXTILE CO; SUNBEAM CORP; UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES JARDEN CONSUMER SOLUTIONS (71%); SCOTT PAPER CO (63%); UNITE HERE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIDDEFORD TEXTILE CO; SUNBEAM CORP; UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES UNITE HERE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIDDEFORD (ME); UNITED STATES (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) TEXTILES (91%); TEXTILE MFG (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FABRICS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); PAPER MFG (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); TEXTILES & SEWING MATERIALS WHOLESALERS (73%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); RETAILERS (66%); STATISTICS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; DUNLAP, ALBERT J; BOISVERT, RENE ; LIBERTY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



223 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: At the World Bank, Architecture as Diplomacy

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE new World Bank complex now approaching completion here is about as un-Washington -- and as un-banklike -- as a building gets.
In a city known for its classical influences, there is nary a cornice or pediment in sight. Moreover, there is a total absence of such traditional materials as marble and brass. And with the exception of granite curbstones mandated by the city -- and various wood veneers -- all the building materials are manmade. 
 But the reasons for these departures are far from apolitical.
"The World Bank is in the business of assisting third-world countries and the whole language of classicism is very much connected to the issue of colonialism," said William Pedersen of Kohn Pedersen Fox,the New York-based main architect for the project. "We did not want to get involved in that debate."
The complex, which occupies a square block along Pennsylvania Avenue two blocks west of the White House, comprises three buildings grouped around a 13-story atrium. One of the buildings and the atrium are new and two are what is left of the bank's original headquarters, a complex of six fairly nondescript office buildings erected over roughly 25 years beginning in the mid-40's.
The original buildings were linked on some floors, but not on others, and had separate climate-control systems. "It was a complete hodgepodge," said Tim Cullen, senior adviser for external affairs at the bank.
"The old buildings were very dark and there were a lot of problems with technology and with heating and cooling," said Sven Sandstrom, managing director of the bank. "They were hot in the summer and, given the darkness, had a very enclosed feeling. We also had asbestos problems, which made wiring and renovation very difficult."
In addition, by the mid 80's, the bank was bursting at the seams with personnel. The old complex held just under 4,000 staff members; another 4,000 were scattered in buildings the bank either owned or leased in the area. Clearly, something had to be done.
In 1989 the bank held a worldwide architectural competition and received 76 proposals from 26 countries. This was later narrowed to 8, with Kohn Pedersen Fox the eventual winner. One of the terms of the competition was that the two newest buildings in the original complex be retained temporarily for economic reasons. The winning proposal went a step further and incorporated them into the finished plan.
"They're serviceable buildings by good architects and we thought we'd be a step ahead of the game in terms of the bank's master plan if we used them," said Mr. Pedersen.
One of the retained buildings was designed by Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill who also designed Lever House in New York and many other office buildings in the 60's. The other is by Vincent Kling in association with Clas Riggs, now Clas Riggs Owens & Ramos. The older buildings, with their austere modern facades, appear to be embedded in the new and larger aluminum and glass structure.
BUT what really carried the day, said Mr. Sandstrom, was the way the design introduced natural light not only to the center of the building but also to two underground floors by way of the vaulted atrium. The atrium is 178 feet tall, considerably above the 130-foot limit in the district, but allowable because the extra height is not used for occupancy. It has a 28-foot waterfall, elevator banks, planters and a number of seating areas.
"It has the feeling of a main street where people get together, talk, eat lunch," said Mr. Sandstrom. "We've never had that before."
The complex includes two large conference rooms on the roof of the new building and a ground-floor auditorium. All are equipped with simultaneous translation facilities. There is also a gleaming basement cafeteria and a private dining room for which Kohn Pedersen Fox designed everything from the lighting fixtures to the china.
Surprisingly, the bank's top management resisted the urge to construct glitzy new offices for themselves and it remains ensconced in a 12th-floor suite in one of the old buildings. "We didn't see any point in moving the offices," said Mr. Sandstrom.
The complex, which has 2.1 million square feet of space, an increase of about 300,000 square feet, will house about 4,700 employees.
For all its familiarity with the intricacies of third-world economic development, the bank proved less adept when it came to the cost estimates and scheduling for its new headquarters. The original estimate was $211 million. That has been steadily revised upwards to $314 million.
"The overrun was mainly about bad planning," said Peter Copplestone, a construction manager who was brought in to oversee the project when costs started skyrocketing. "They were very optimistic about the concessions they were going to get from contractors."
Demolition of four existing buildings began in late 1989. Completion of the project is expected late this summer.
The complex is the first of several large downtown projects that are expected to roil the waters of the real estate market here in the next few years. The other projects include the 1.8 million-square-foot Ronald Reagan International Cultural and Trade Center, a 650,000-square-foot building for the International Finance Corporation and a 500,000-square-foot Secret Service building. Downtown Washington has about 32 million square feet of office space, making it the third largest office market in the country after Chicago and New York, the largest.
ACCORDING to the local office of Cushman and Wakefield, the national brokerage, the overall vacancy rate for the downtown business district is just over 13 percent. "It's been very stable for the last five years," said Elisa Hughes, an analyst with the firm. She added, however, that the new projects would bump that number up a point or two in the next few years.
Ms. Hughes. as well as others in the industry, say the city is finally on the upswing after a long period of fiscal and governmental turmoil that led many firms and associations to relocate to the suburbs.
"Anyone who doesn't have to be in the district would prefer not to be but if you have to be, you live with it," said Alfred Neely, senior vice president of development for Charles E. Smith Company, a development and property management concern here with interests both in the district and the suburbs.
One plus for the city, he added, is that suburban rental rates -- particularly in northern Virginia -- have been rising steadily and are now on par with the city.
The World Bank is among the entities that need to be in the city, according to Ernesto Henriod, director of construction for the bank.
"We are an international institution and need to be near government offices and embassies," he said. "We also get a lot of visitors from overseas so we need to be close to hotels and other services. Economically, it would have been a lot cheaper [in the late 80's] to go out to the suburbs, but from a functional standpoint it would have been wrong."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 9 about the rebuilt World Bank complex in Washington misidentified the architect of an existing building that was retained. He is Bruce Graham, not Gordon Bunshaft.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new World Bank headquarters in Washington, with its vaulted, 13-story atrium at right. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Washington showing the location of the New World Bank complex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (50%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (75%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); 

PERSON: SHAROFF, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



224 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
It's Called Poor Health for a Reason

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. SHWEDER; Richard A. Shweder, a cultural anthropologist, is chairman of the Committee on Human Development at the University of Chicago.

 BODY:
FROM a cerebro-vascular, genito-urinary, gastro-intestinal, psycho-therapeutic or mortuary point of view, the rich and famous have never had it so good. Yes, their children are more prone to acne and allergies. Nevertheless, during the last half of the 20th century, people in the developed world with an elevated social status have been producing health, well-being and longevity at a faster rate than those with lower social standing.
Physical and mental health run parallel to social rank. In England, commoners die sooner than aristocrats. In the military, sergeants have more heart attacks than generals. Blue-collar workers -- and not only those working in mines, construction sites and chemical plants -- have more respiratory infections and hacking coughs than white-collar workers. Office clerks are more anxious and depressed than office managers. Lower-middle-class Americans are more mortal, morbid, symptomatic and disabled than upper-middle-class Americans. With each little step down on the educational, occupational and income ladders comes an increased risk of headaches, varicose veins, hypertension, sleepless nights, emotional distress, heart disease, schizophrenia and an early visit to the grave. 
 The funny thing is, no one knows why.
Of course, people who are socially well placed have not always been spared the ravages of disease. Mythic images of wounded elites come to mind: gout-endamaged royalty, wan and hysterical Victorian ladies, ascetic malnourished Brahman widows, Mandarins eating vitamin-deficient polished rice and bearing beriberi. In the 1920's and 30's, coronary heart disease was apparently a mark of social distinction among men in England. In the 1940's and 50's, the polio virus crippled those at the top in the United States. And even today there are a few afflictions, like breast cancer and malignant melanomas, that seem to prevail among citizens of high station.
On the whole, though, the upper- crust neuroses and illnesses have all but disappeared from Europe and the United States. During the last 50 years, Western men and women of higher status have lived longer and have been healthier and saner than the people they outclass.
The study of "social inequalities in health" is today one of the hottest areas in epidemiology, medical sociology and health psychology. Only last December, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation established a research network on socioeconomic status and health, under the direction of Nancy Adler, a psychologist at the University of California, San Francisco.
Much of the excitement dates from the 1980 publication of the "Black Report," when Sir Douglas Black (a former president of the Royal College of Physicians) and his medical, social science and public policy associates showed the statistical association between illness and social class in England and Wales. The Conservative Government detested the Black Report, viewing it as a trespass of social medicine into politics, an ideological tract produced by welfare-state advocates longing to redistribute wealth and level the social class system. Liberal egalitarians, just as predictably, took the study as proof that social hierarchy is a public health problem.
Politics aside, no one knows precisely why people with high status are more healthy and less crazy.
It is not primarily because they have better access to health care. Socioeconomic differences exist for diseases that are not amenable to treatment. In fact, since the advent of the British National Health Service in 1948, the gap in health between occupational statuses in England has widened. (Perhaps this confirms the dismal economic principle that publicly financed institutions -- hospitals, schools, highways and courts -- always benefit the well-to-do most.)
The health gap cannot be blamed mostly on hazardous work or living conditions, either. Social status differences in health persist even when members of different social classes are exposed to similar levels of pollutants and carcinogens in their environment.
Nor is poverty itself the prime reason. Consider, for example, the famous "Whitehall Studies," an investigation of the tidy, hierarchically graded world of relatively well-off white-collar British civil servants, conducted by the epidemiologist Michael Marmot and his public health colleagues at University College, London.
The Whitehall study showed that with each tiny descent in civil service rank, from senior executive officer down to executive officer, comes more angina, more diabetes and more rough cough with phlegm. In this securely employed population, the mortality gap between senior administrators and clerical workers is even greater than the health divide in the general population. Moreover, as comparisons between richer and poorer countries in Europe have shown time and again, greater national wealth does not readily translate into greater national health. A 45-year-old Greek male can expect to live longer than his English peer.
The health gap cannot be blamed primarily on life style differences, either. It's true that clean living (no smoking, alcohol or fatty foods and lots of exercise) is a high-status religious activity (though professional women probably drink more liquor than working-class women). Nevertheless, it turns out that most of the social inequality in coronary heart disease remains even after such life-style differences are taken into account.
Could the health gap exist because unhealthy people are downwardly mobile or because healthy women marry up? Those things do happen. Some people rise in status because they are vigorous and others are "selected" for demotion because they are disabled or out of their minds. But social migration isn't enough of a stampede to explain all the health effects.
Neo-conservatives believe that both health and high social rank are jointly produced and justly earned by hard-working, intelligent people who avoid reckless risks, educate themselves and take a long view of life. And liberal-minded egalitarians believe that health is a common good that ought to be provided and regulated by the government (just like highways, schools, courts and national defense). But neither side has explained how the health divide is actually produced.
Perhaps it is karma. Perhaps it is in the genes. Perhaps it is all of the reasons above. Perhaps it is a statistical artifact. Perhaps the safest thing one can say is that the socioeconomic health gradient is a "multiple complex synergistic non-linear incremental cumulative threshold-bound lag effect." Social scientists like to talk like that when they think they are looking at something important but don't really know what is going on.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Alison Seiffer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); WALES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); WALES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CANCER (87%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); ACNE (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); HYPERTENSION (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); VIRUSES (66%); BREAST CANCER (65%); SKIN CANCER (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHWEDER, RICHARD A (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997



225 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Suspicions in the East, Confusions in the West

BYLINE: By ORVILLE SCHELL; Orville Schell is dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:

THE COMING CONFLICT WITH CHINA
By Richard Bernstein and Ross H. Munro
Illustrated. 245 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $23. 
 Even before Deng Xiaoping's death, the question of whether China's economically dynamic but politically unsettled state of affairs would ultimately pose a threat to the interests of the United States and other nations was so sensitive that most members of the foreign policy establishment chose to tiptoe cautiously around it. With Beijing alleging foreign plots bent on "containing" China's aspirations and denying Chinese "their rightful place in the world," few cared to offend Chinese Communist Party leaders with unflattering criticism.
The party has long mastered the art of controlling what its own people say and think. What is new is the way it has succeeded in controlling expressions of opinion from abroad as well. Its trump card in this global manipulation is, of course, its new ability to withdraw access to China's swelling market and to put pressure on foreign businessmen, politicians, diplomats, academics and even some journalists to be silent or even to polemicize China's brand of market Leninism.
But two former Beijing bureau chiefs -- Richard Bernstein (who reported on China for Time magazine and now is a book critic for The New York Times) and Ross H. Munro (Beijing correspondent for The Toronto Globe and Mail and now director of the Asia Program at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia) -- have unrepentantly plunged harpoons into the tenderest interstices of the Chinese-American relationship. In "The Coming Conflict With China," they portray China as a growing economic and military threat that "during the past decade or so has set goals for itself that are directly contrary to American interests, the most important of those being to replace the United States as the pre-eminent power in Asia."
They are particularly concerned about how China's long repressed yearnings for hegemony and its "historic aggrievement" have made anti-Americanism "a matter of national dignity." One foreign affairs expert in Beijing notes that it has become "politically correct to describe the U.S. as a sinister superpower, a dangerous enemy, a superpower bully."
A new wave of paranoid official accusations charging the United States with plotting to "subjugate China" by "subverting the Chinese Government and strangling China's development" leads the authors to observe, "No other supposedly friendly country has attacked the United States more strenuously or with more rhetorical excess than China."
It is a great paradox that after suffering for a century as "the sick man of Asia" and then as the epicenter of a failed Marxist revolution and when now at last it is evincing signs of real economic success and global influence, China remains so lacking in self-confidence that its leaders need to conjure up phantom foreign enemies. So commonplace has overblown nationalist rhetoric become that Deng's insistence that even though "China and the United States are different in ideology, there is no conflict between their fundamental interests" already seems like a reverie.
China's new truculence is a reminder that those wellsprings of suspicion and hostility toward the outside world that grew out of the opium wars, fueled myriad xenophobic movements and gave rise to Mao's militant anti-imperialism have not vanished behind the signs of American fast-food restaurants. Instead there remains a deep and enduring ambivalence in China about the West and Japan that will be difficult to overcome even if the United States finally does arrive at a China policy that is coherent, consistent and wise.
One of the most worrisome aspects of present-day China is the way the party's unyielding commitment to "unifying the motherland" could lead to a conflict over Taiwan involving the United States and Japan. The authors go so far as to suggest that "Beijing's rulers will risk war with America not because it is in their country's interest but because it is in the interests of the governing clique." While they do not believe that war is unavoidable, they point to the fact that the United States is "a handy natural enemy" and that xenophobia is always a tempting way to unify a divided society.
While the authors support "engagement," they assiduously reject "that noble but naive American idea that better communications automatically lead to better relations" or that "making concessions to China and shrinking from imposing sanctions on it no matter how bad its behavior will encourage it to act with greater restraint and responsibility in the international community."
They are particularly critical of overseas businessmen. "China's efforts to impose its international agenda on foreign companies doing business in China has shaken up American businessmen," they write. "But it hasn't shaken them into leaving China. It has shaken them into doing China's bidding more eagerly than ever."
Crucial in this alliance between the leaders of a Communist Party and captains of capitalist industry is what the authors call "the new China lobby," that group of former United States Government officials turned private consultants who, while incanting the mantra that open markets equal open societies, "use their prestige and influence both publicly and privately to advance policies from which they profit mightily."
While its provocative assumptions about China's aggressiveness will doubtless doubtless play into Beijing's paranoia, and its critique of accommodation will be rejected by those who espouse unalloyed engagement as the best hedge against a rogue China, "The Coming Conflict With China" presents an important and cogent argument from the "tough love" school of Chinese-American relations.
It forces us to confront the fact that as this errant "people's republic" reinvents itself, it has given rise to a society that is both undemocratic and off balance and capable of becoming a destabilizing force instead of a constructive one. By laying out the dangers implicit in this new belligerence, Mr. Bernstein and Mr. Munro may offend many Chinese, but they may also help reset the goal posts for what one hopes will be a new and realistic debate over American policy in the post-Deng era.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Bernstein, left, and Ross H. Munro (Mariana Cook/Alfred A. Knopf, left; Standard Photo Group/Alfred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COMING CONFLICT WITH CHINA, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GLOBE & MAIL (54%); FOREIGN POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); FOREIGN POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); FOREIGN POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); LITERARY CRITICISM (74%); JOURNALISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); LITERATURE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHELL, ORVILLE; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; MUNRO, ROSS H RICHARD A BERNSTEIN (93%); DENG XIAOPING (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



226 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Prisoners in Their Home, Facing the Twin Ravages of Plague and Power

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY 

 BODY:
The child is faceless. She has pulled her skirt up her over head, something that little girls are not, of course, unknown to do. But in this case, the image isn't playful. There is instead the sense that what is before us is only a body, a disquieting feeling confirmed by the first words she speaks, "What are you doing out of your grave?"
So begins Naomi Wallace's "One Flea Spare," which opened last night at the Joseph Papp Public Theater. It's an appropriate and unsettlingly effective prologue to a play in which flesh is not only mortal but also exploitable, marketable and ultimately interchangeable. 
 This moment, both tantalizingly ambiguous and joltingly specific, is also, unfortunately, the high point of this densely lyrical, self-conscious drama set in London in 1665, the year of the bubonic plague. Ms. Wallace, an American playwright who is also a poet and whose work has been widely praised in England, does indeed have a poet's precision in sustaining and developing metaphors (while giving a whole new resonance to the phrase "body politic"), as well as an ear for the music in plain language.
But while sensationally dramatic things do happen in "One Flea Spare," the work remains stiff, schematic and surprisingly unaffecting. Often one has the feeling of looking at, rather than listening to, a score for a chamber ensemble. The notes are clearly all in place, but you've yet to hear the music that would sweep you into experiential involvement.
Ms. Wallace mines the same historical material that Daniel Defoe used in his crypto-journalistic novel "A Journal of the Plague Year." The biological details of the course of the disease that paralyzed and transformed a city are unstintingly described, creating a climate in which illness and death are, if nothing else, democratic. In the lime pits where bodies are piled, as one character notes, "all faces looked the same."
But the rot that Ms. Wallace smells isn't just a product of disease. Her greater concern is with a more discriminating abuse of bodies: of the poor by the rich, of the powerless by the powerful. And the central conflict of the play, directed by Ron Daniels, is one of class, enacted by a quintet of Londoners who suddenly find themselves in a world in which the old, order-defining rules are under siege.
As in Sartre's "No Exit," this work confines characters of disparate stripes in a sealed environment and then watches the power shifts among them. The setting is the household of William and Darcy Snelgrave (Jon De Vries and Dianne Wiest), an affluent couple of the merchant class.
They have been prisoners in their own home for 28 days, dependent on their unscrupulous guard, Kabe (Paul Kandel), for news and groceries, when they are joined by two unwelcome interlopers in search of sanctuary: Bunce (Bill Camp), a rough-spoken sailor, and Morse (Mischa Barton, the appealing young actress from Tony Kushner's "Slavs!"), a mysteriously intuitive 12-year-old who says she is the daughter of neighbors of the Snelgraves.
The dissolution of the status quo, already shaken by the plague, is traced in a series of vignettes that often suggest theatrical exercises in a Marxist economics class, with more than a little assistance from D. H. Lawrence and Jean Genet.
The Snelgraves take a most prurient interest in Bunce, whom they make their provisional servant while trying to get some vicarious experience of the world beyond their cushioned, insular lives. William, who controls a dockyard, is fascinated by ocean travel, though he has no stomach for it, and "the foul and lecherous ways of the sea."
Darcy, who was horribly mutilated by a fire two years after her marriage at 15 and has had no physical contact with her husband in the succeeding decades, is predictably drawn to the lusty sailor. (She even says to him, a la Lady Chatterley, that while she hardly gives him a thought during the days, "every night I ravish you in my sleep.")
Well, sex, like death, is certainly a great leveler. And it probably wasn't a good idea for William to let Bunce try on his fancy shoes as a little experiment in class distinction. By the play's end, Bunce will be wearing more than William's shoes, and the master will find himself stripped and tied to a chair, with the eerily wise Morse playing arbitrator.
This sort of role reversal inevitably brings to mind "The Maids" of Genet. But "One Flea Spare" doesn't begin to have the far-reaching reverberations of that work. It's too firmly anchored in its conscientious set of symbols -- of unhealing wounds, sexual bartering and penetration, fire, water and decay -- for its characters to spring into autonomous life.
This may be partly the fault of the production. Aside from Mr. Camp, who brings to his part a canny sense of reawakened appetites blunted by years of oppression, the actors approach their roles as though they were uncomfortable pieces of furniture.
Ms. Wiest, heaven knows, is a marvelous actress, and she does some terrific things with her eyes and smile that speak volumes about the thwarted, restless spirit beneath Darcy's proper facade. But she is crippled by a plummy, aristocratic accent that at moments recalls Edith Evans at her loftiest.
Riccardo Hernandez's spare Vermeer-like set and Scott Zielinski's artful lighting are lovely and haunting. And the production achieves moments of eloquent, silent tableau, as when Bunce, on his knees, is hand fed by William. But you're also entirely too aware of the significance of the staging: who's standing, who's lying down, who's seated; who, in short, is in power.
"The movement of history," William observes, is "as inflexible as stone." That may be, but theater usually requires an immediate spontaneity and a sense of manifold possibilities to breathe freely. "One Flea Spare" is definitely carved in stone.
 
ONE FLEA SPARE
By Naomi Wallace; directed by Ron Daniels; sets by Riccardo Hernandez; costumes by Paul Tazewell; lighting by Scott Zielinski; sound by Stuart J. Allyn; original music by Michael Rasbury; production dramaturge, Mervin P. Antonio; production stage manager, C. A. Clark. Presented by the Joseph Papp Public Theater/New York Shakespeare Festival, George C. Wolfe, producer; Rosemarie Tichler, artistic producer. At 425 Lafayette Street, East Village.

WITH: Dianne Wiest (Mrs. Darcy Snelgrave), Mischa Barton (Morse), Bill Camp (Bunce), Jon De Vries (Mr. William Snelgrave) and Paul Kandel (Kabe).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon De Vries, left, Bill Camp, Mischa Barton and Dianne Wiest in "One Flea Spare," at the Joseph Papp Public Theater. (Michal Daniel/"One Flea Spare")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ONE FLEA SPARE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (66%); HISTORY (64%); 

PERSON: BRANTLEY, BEN; WALLACE, NAOMI JOSEPH PAPP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



227 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: No Change in Capital Gains

 BODY:
Since the beginning of the Bush Administration, Democrats have managed to contain the Republican obsession with cutting the tax on capital gains. But opposition to a cut among Congressional Democrats, and even in the White House, appears to be weakening, now that stock prices are soaring and millions of investors are facing a stiff tax bill when they sell investments. Small farmers and business owners are also begging the Democrats to go along. Both groups face tax burdens when they sell their family-owned enterprises at elevated prices.
The Democrats should hold their ground. A major achievement of the 1986 tax reform bill, still mostly intact, was to tax all types of income, including capital gains, at the same rate. It makes no sense to discard this hard-fought victory. It also makes no sense to cut taxes at a time when Congress and the White House are faced with the huge task of eliminating deficits totaling hundreds of billions of dollars over the next five years. The wise course would be to keep capital-gains taxes in place. But if the Democrats want to mollify small-business owners and farmers, they can easily do so without capitulating to the G.O.P.'s attempt to grant what would be a large and discriminatory tax break. 
 The Republicans offer two arguments. One is that capital gains are taxed too heavily. The second is that a much lower capital-gains rate would encourage a wave of new investment and growth. Neither argument is correct.
Under current law, wages and interest income are taxed in the year they are earned. But capital gains on investments escape taxes until they are sold. By postponing the tax, Washington lets investors keep money they would otherwise turn over to the Treasury -- giving them, in effect, an interest-free loan that weakens the claim that capital gains are overly taxed.
More important, an across-the-board cut, as the Republicans propose, will not deliver the economic punch they promise. If Congress cuts the tax in half, the after-tax profit on typical investments is likely to rise by no more than 7 percent. That is too little benefit to generate a substantial increase in saving and investment. As a fraction of national output, the additional investment would be minuscule, much less than 1 percent.
Venture capitalists would be the major beneficiary of the tax cut because their reward largely takes the form of capital gains. But even for them, the impact would be small because venture capitalists account for very little investment themselves. Nearly 90 percent of the money they invest comes from institutions like pension funds and universities, which are exempt from taxes and therefore indifferent to capital-gains tax rates.
Small farmers and business owners often have their wealth tied up in one place, their farm or business, and face large tax bills when they sell their operations. Exactly why the tax burden is seen as unfair to these groups is unclear. After all, everyone else pays taxes on appreciated assets. Indeed, the code already provides tax relief on the sale of family businesses. But if Congress wants to further ease their plight, it can do so with a targeted measure that does not create a massive loophole elsewhere in the tax code.
The budget can afford a hit limited to family businesses and small farms. It cannot afford a needless giveaway that drives up the deficit and creates a loophole Congress rightly closed 10 years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; EDITORIALS CAPITAL GAINS TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (74%); TAX REFORM (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



228 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Unions, Bruised in Direct Battles With Companies, Try a Roundabout Tactic

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Frustrated that companies are beating unions in so many organizing drives, American labor leaders are making a fundamental shift in strategy away from a 60-year tradition of concentrating on workplace elections.
Instead, labor leaders say, they will focus on getting at least 51 percent of the employees at various companies to sign cards backing a union and then demand that the companies recognize the union. 
 This card-check strategy, as it is called, is likely to produce more clashes with management, labor leaders acknowledge. Unions are warning employers that if they do not accept unions on this basis, labor will mount campaigns to press management into recognizing unions even when management is demanding an election.
In Los Angeles, for example, the New Otani Hotel has been rocked by a campaign in which the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Internatonal Union, angry that management rejected a card check, has organized a boycott, sponsored demonstrations and even flown workers to Tokyo to confront and embarrass the hotel's Japanese owners.
The architects of this strategy, which include the leaders of several of the nation's most aggressive unions, say they hope to persuade most employers to recognize unions based on card checks, not only to avoid a pressure campaign but to avoid months and perhaps years of labor-management hostility in hard-fought representation elections.
"American companies say they can't compete without a cooperative environment," said John Wilhelm, secretary-treasurer of the hotel workers union, who has led successful card-check drives in Las Vegas, Nev., avoiding lengthy conflicts. "It's essentially impossible to go from this kind of warfare to a cooperative environment. That's why I tell companies they should accept card checks."
Labor leaders view card checks as a vital weapon in the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new campaign to recruit millions of members to reverse the movement's two-decade slide in membership and clout. As the model for their card-check strategy, union leaders cite the organizing drive in which the hotel union has increased its membership in Las Vegas to 45,000 from 18,000 by using cards instead of elections. As another example, union officials point to the United Food and Commercial Workers, which added 68,000 new members last year through card checks.
"Unions have found that the system of representation elections is heavily weighted in favor of employers," said Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, which has relied on card signings to unionize 30,000 janitors in its Justice for Janitors campaign. "These elections don't really give workers free choice. We're saying, 'If Americans can buy a house or a car by signing their name, if they can register to vote by signing their name, then they should be able to join a union by signing their name.' "
Many business executives reject labor's push for card checks, arguing that unions have adopted the strategy because they have done such a poor job selling themselves in elections. Noting that the National Labor Relations Act established a right to secret-ballot elections, company officials assert that elections are the fairest way to determine whether employees want a union.
"Card checks seek to circumvent the secret-ballot process in order to force the employer to recognize the union," said Jeffrey C. McGuiness, president of the Labor Policy Association, an employers' lobbying group. "Our problem with cards is they can be coerced. A large union organizer can stand next to a small person and say, 'It will be in your interest to sign this card.' "
Union officials say they have embraced card checks after concluding that representation elections are skewed against them. They note that employers often delay elections for a year or more through legal maneuvers. They cite studies by Prof. Paul Weiler of Harvard Law School showing that employers dismiss about 1 in 20 workers who campaign for a union. Union leaders further note that dismissed union supporters must often wait years for the courts to reinstate them, and that usually happens long after the dismissals have crippled the organizing drive.
Labor leaders also complain that management is free to spread its anti-union message to employees during their eight-hour shifts, while union organizers are barred from the workplace. In many cases, companies require workers to watch anti-union videos or sit through anti-union presentations by managers. In a recent survey of 525 organizing drives, Kate Bronfenbrenner, a Cornell University labor expert, found that half the companies threatened to close their plants if the union won.
"Even when employers don't fire workers, the deck is stacked heavily in favor of management," Mr. Wilhelm said. "Employers can indoctrinate workers during paid work time in a situation where the union has no access. To win recognition through an election, union supporters have to survive a period of propaganda, even terrorism."
Richard Bensinger, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s organizing director, says that if the rules for representation elections applied to political campaigns, President Clinton would have controlled all television stations and been able to make all voters watch his videos several hours a day. Meanwhile, Bob Dole would have had to stand at the Canadian border, handing out fliers to cars whizzing by.
Unions lose about half the representation elections at private-sector employers, but labor's success rate is 85 percent in the public sector, where many employers do not campaign against unions.
Charles Ecker, a spokesman for the New Otani Hotel, said it refused to accept card checks because it viewed them as unfair. Too often, he said, employees sign cards after hearing only the union's pitch -- and never hearing about the negative side of unionization. Elections are preferable, he argued, because workers get to hear both sides.
As for the pressure campaign the hotel faces for refusing to accept a card check, Mr. Ecker said: "It's a campaign of attrition. Nobody wins."
Under Federal law, a union may ask the National Labor Relations Board to supervise an election once 30 percent of a workplace's employees sign cards supporting union recognition. When more than 50 percent sign, the union can ask management for recognition without an election, but most employers demand a vote.
"It's nonsense for employers to say they oppose card checks because they want to give workers a free choice," Mr. Stern said. "This is really a matter of employers wanting to use all their inherent power and economic leverage to pressure employees to vote against the union."
Unions rarely ask for an election unless 70 percent of the workers have signed cards. Organizers say that if they do not have 70 percent support before an election, they are likely to lose because management's anti-union offensive usually changes the minds of many workers.
If there was a guru at last month's A.F.L.-C.I.O. meeting in Los Angeles, it was Mr. Wilhelm, the hotel union strategist in Las Vegas who has earned a reputation as the leading card-check practitioner. Mr. Wilhelm, a Yale graduate who made a name for himself organizing Yale's clerical workers two decades ago, has persuaded many hotels to accept card checks by offering the union's cooperation.
He persuaded Mirage Resorts to accept card checks at its future Las Vegas hotels -- and to be neutral in organizing drives -- in exchange for the union's promise to help make the hotels more efficient. As an incentive, the union agreed to reduce the number of job classifications to 38 from 96, enabling management to have each employee do more tasks.
Mr. Wilhelm persuaded the 5,000-room MGM Grand in Las Vegas, the world's largest hotel, to accept a card check after an intense pressure campaign in which 500 union supporters sat in at the hotel and the union fought MGM's expansion to other states and issued a caustic report on MGM to investors.
Peter Pantaleo, an MGM lawyer, said, "I don't see management ever agreeing to a card check unless they are pressured or perceive a legitimate business justification."
Mr. Wilhelm has gone the election route only once in Las Vegas, and he says it underlined all the defects of elections. In May 1992, a union drive began at the Santa Fe Hotel and Casino, with 70 percent of the workers signing cards by September 1992. Insisting on an election, management rejected the union's request for card recognition. The election was not held until September 1993, and the union won by 300 to 241, but only after management had dismissed 9 union supporters, threatened to dismiss 14 others and cited 12 union supporters for trespassing. Five workers charged the hotel with illegal surveillance, and many complained that hotel security had pulled pro-union fliers out of their hands in the cafeteria.
The hotel challenged the election results, and it was not until October 1996 that a Federal appeals court upheld the union's victory and ordered the hotel into contract talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEVADA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; UNIONIZATION ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (78%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BOYCOTTS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



229 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Bonn Said to Expel U.S. Envoy Accused of Economic Spying

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: BONN, March 9

 BODY:
A United States diplomat is reported to have been expelled from Bonn, after being accused of committing economic espionage against Germany, one of Washington's staunchest allies.
The newsmagazine Der Spiegel, which released the report in advance of publication on Monday, said the expulsion, two years after a similar incident in France, was the first of its kind in Germany. 
 In Washington, a State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that German authorities had notified the United States that an American was to be expelled but that the person had not yet left. A spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Bonn said, "We do not comment on intelligence matters." German officials here also refused to comment.
Der Spiegel said the expulsion had been carried out quietly without a formal diplomatic protest. But Willfried Penner, a member of the opposition Social Democratic Party who heads a key parliamentary committee, said "things will be different" if further instances of American espionage are uncovered.
The notion of American agents spying on Germany, which sees itself as a steadfast ally, is bound to complicate the question of how Washington now views a country that for decades during the cold war stood on Europe's front line against the Soviet bloc.
The affair coincides with what many German commentators view as Bonn's deepening sense of alienation from Washington. This was reflected, for example, in dismay over the recent American readiness to publicly accuse Germany of human rights abuses over its hostile attitude toward the Scientology movement.
Der Spiegel said that the unidentified American, apparently an operative of the Central Intelligence Agency under diplomatic cover, had tried to recruit a high-ranking official in the Economics Ministry with access to "high-tech projects." The nature of the projects was not disclosed.
According to Der Spiegel, the American agent's attempt to recruit the German official backfired when the German reported the approach to Bonn's counter-intelligence authorities.
Der Spiegel did not say when the expulsion took place.
The incident has highlighted the continued presence of American intelligence agents in Germany despite the end of the cold war, when this country was the most dangerous potential flashpoint in Europe and housed hundreds of thousands of American service personnel.
Since the fall of the Soviet Union the number of American soldiers stationed in Germany has been drastically reduced, to around 65,000, but the United States has rejected German requests for the dismantling of American intelligence-gathering operations here, saying they are necessary for the security of the North Atlantic alliance.
German officials quoted in Der Spiegel countered that economic espionage against an ally has nothing to do with NATO's security.
German intelligence officials, moreover, accuse their American counterparts of behaving as if nothing had changed since the cold war, when the divided Germany was an espionage center for East and West.
"The Americans still look upon us as their backyard where they can do anything they like," Der Spiegel quoted an unidentified German intelligence official as saying.
The expulsion was reported in recent days to the German parliamentary intelligence oversight committee, by which time the purported American spy had left the country, Der Spiegel said. It was reported to the committee by Bernd Schmidbauer, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's top intelligence aide, and Peter Frisch, head of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, the domestic intelligence agency.
The Government's reluctance to publicly discuss the move today reflected a perception among officials here that some matters are best not aired. Last year, Bonn maintained a studious silence about the expulsion of two Iranian diplomats, even after word of their departure had been published in the American press.
Two years ago, France ordered five Americans -- four of them C.I.A. operatives working under diplomatic cover -- to leave France after they attempted to bribe French officials into betraying their country's position in world trade negotiations.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); SPIEGEL (GERMAN MAGAZINE) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); SPIEGEL (GERMAN MAGAZINE) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ESPIONAGE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); ARMED FORCES (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (53%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



230 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Finance Complicates China Policy

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9

 BODY:
When James Sasser, the American Ambassador to Beijing and a former Democratic Senator from Tennessee, went home to talk to the Economic Club of Memphis on Friday, local business executives wanted to know about China's unfair trade practices, its human rights problems and politics after Deng Xiaoping.
But reporters brought up something else: the so-called China connection to the campaign finance scandal. 
 Wherever the Ambassador spoke on his tour of various cities to tout 1997 as "a very important year" in relations with China, he found himself playing down accusations that either the Chinese Government or big campaign contributors with close ties to Beijing had influenced, or tried to influence, the Clinton Administration's China policy or the 1996 Presidential election campaign.
"I would be the most surprised person in the United States of America if we find there is any participation by the Chinese Government in campaign contributions," Mr. Sasser said in an interview in Memphis.
But domestic politics have a way of seeping into even the best-built foreign policies.
And although Mr. Sasser and other Administration officials deny that the scandal-charged atmosphere in Washington has in any way affected policy toward China, concerns are emerging inside and outside the Administration that the United States and China may now have less room to maneuver at a crucial time in their relationship.
Vice President Al Gore is to travel to China with his family this month, in the Administration's highest-level visit to that country so far. If all goes well, President Jiang Zemin will come to the United States this fall on an official state visit complete with a 21-gun salute and a formal White House dinner. That could be followed by President Clinton's first trip to Beijing next year.
But already, officials at the White House and the State Department are worried that Mr. Gore's visit could be overshadowed by questions about his involvement in campaign fund-raising or about whether fund-raising activities somehow compromised American policy toward China.
Officials who until a few weeks ago were billing Mr. Gore's trip as a major step toward finding a new way to talk to China are now playing down expectations of any substantive progress during the visit.
In fact, Mr. Gore is said to be concerned about the potential political repercussions in the United States of the toasts of friendship that he and his Chinese hosts will make and the official -- and unofficial -- photographs that will be taken, Administration officials familiar with China said.
The officials recall with dismay the ill-fated visit of Secretary of State Warren Christopher to Beijing in March 1994. That visit, initially planned as the culmination of six months of intensive high-level engagement with the Chinese, was poisoned by China's rounding up of political prisoners and by Chinese officials' public censure of Mr. Christopher as he sharply criticized their human rights policies and refused an invitation to an official banquet.
Although the atmosphere between Washington and Beijing has improved since then, it is impossible to predict what new reports about fund-raising may surface before or during Mr. Gore's trip.
Complicating policy toward China, the post of Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs is vacant. Winston Lord, who held the job for the last four years, made clear early last fall that he did not want to stay on. Next week, he is moving back to New York, where he intends to consult, study art and music and work on his tennis game.
The nomination of Stanley Roth, who handled Asia policy at the National Security Council and the Pentagon during Mr. Clinton's first term, is stymied at the White House. His confirmation hearings are several weeks, perhaps months, away.
In addition, Mr. Roth's name is on a few of the White House documents related to campaign finance practices that were released by the White House as part of the nomination of Anthony Lake, the former national security adviser, as Director of Central Intelligence. Mr. Roth's confirmation could be delayed even longer if Republican lawmakers try to link him to questionable fund-raising practices.
"The State Department is stretched thin in the East Asia division because of the absence of a successor to Win Lord," Mr. Sasser said. "It is imperative to get someone in place as soon as possible."
Although no evidence has come to light indicating that Chinese money affected Mr. Clinton's fundamental policy toward China, in the current supercharged political atmosphere, any accusations linking campaign contributions to Beijing could cause the Administration to be more cautious in making positive gestures toward China.
"The allegations about Asian fund-raising in general and connections with China in particular inevitably create an atmosphere in which people will interpret leadership on China policy as a payoff for Chinese contributions," said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China expert at the University of Michigan. "I think that would be a wrong interpretation, but politically that has to be a concern for the White House."
The accusations could also complicate lobbying by the Administration on behalf of American companies doing business in China.
"Clinton is going to have a hard time legitimately making demands on behalf of American companies to the Chinese Government, because of the perception that the normal boundaries between policy-making and fund-raising were not maintained," said Fareed Zakaria, managing editor of Foreign Affairs, who has written extensively about China.
But during his speaking tour, Mr. Sasser did his best to separate policy toward China and domestic politics.
He told a luncheon given by the National Committee on United States-China Relations in New York that he did not know much about the scandal but that America's policy of engagement would not "be deterred by any news story."
He told the Asia Society in Washington that China "was the worst lobbyist" in Washington and needed to do more, not less, to get its point of view across on Capitol Hill.
Still, even if the fund-raising scandal was not reflected in businessmen's questions to Mr. Sasser at the Economic Club luncheon in Memphis, much of the informal talk there was indeed about who was sleeping in the Lincoln bedroom and the political fallout for Mr. Gore, who like former Senator Sasser, is a product of Tennessee politics.
"There'll be a press conference in the front bedroom -- I mean dining room," announced Bruce Taylor, the head of a big construction company and one of the luncheon organizers.
For some businessmen, the fund-raising scandal is only of passing concern. "Since '91 we've become so accustomed to hearing things about Clinton and Gore that you've got to really come up with something new to grab our attention," said Calvin Anderson, an executive with Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Memphis, who worked for Mr. Sasser when he was in the Senate.
But other executives disagreed.
"The best thing Gore had going for him was that he was Mr. Clean," said Rudi Scheidt, who was involved in cotton exports to China when he was chairman of the Hohenberg Brothers Cotton Company. "So what does this all do to Mr. Clean?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); POISONINGS (60%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



231 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Neglected Churches Are Given New Use In the Netherlands

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS 

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM

 BODY:
Every Friday afternoon, a courtyard along a busy Amsterdam street fills with Muslim men parking their bicycles and removing their shoes as they prepare for prayers. They may not see it this way, but the worshipers at the Fatih Camii Mosque are part of a fundamental change in the Netherlands.
The site where Allah is now loudly praised used to be a Roman Catholic church. It has been stripped of its crosses and paintings, and the spires on its two plump towers now carry a crescent moon. 
 But it is not Islam, brought here mainly by Moroccan and Turkish immigrants, that is troubling the Dutch priests and pastors. Rather it is a more far-reaching shift, the continuing decline of Christianity.
Dwindling church attendance by Catholics and mainstream Protestants has forced the clergy in much of Europe to confront the same, often painful question their counterparts in New York and other American cities have asked: What to do with the cavernous churches, the myriad chapels and sprawling monasteries that have become redundant and require small fortunes to keep up.
Disused churches can be found in Britain, France, Germany and elsewhere in northern Europe, and many are simply closed. German churches, though, are supported by tax revenues, and French churches long ago became municipal property, all of which help pay for maintenance.
But in the crowded Netherlands, where the churches own the buildings and space is precious, the response has been pragmatic and secular.
Cash-strapped church elders have sold off more than 250 places of worship in the last two decades, buildings where Catholics, Calvinists and Lutherans had prayed for a century or longer. Many have already been converted into libraries, shops, cultural centers and even apartments and discotheques.
Some changeovers signal another kind of transition. A handful of churches were bought by young evangelical sects, New Age groups and growing Muslim communities.
Jews have followed the trend, though on a smaller scale. One community sold a little-used 18th-century synagogue in The Hague, and it was recently dedicated as a mosque. Another synagogue, in Amsterdam, houses the Resistance Museum. A third is being turned into a store.
The Dutch Government's national heritage foundation often pays part of the conversion costs, particularly if it involves one of the 2,300 places of worship listed as protected. Protected or not, the churches are seen as part of the neighborhood, as a vital part of the urban landscape, said Jaap het Hart, director of the foundation.
"They do not want them demolished or changed," he said. "But as the country goes on secularizing, there is less and less money available to keep the buildings going."
In much of Western Europe, church attendance has been slipping since the 1960's, dropping particularly fast in the 1980's. Among the Dutch, the decline has been especially steep. While in 1960, 18 percent of the Dutch said they belonged to no church or religion, in 1995 that number had reached 40 percent, according to the national Bureau of Statistics.
The steepest drop has been among Protestants, who are split into various denominations. Catholics remain the single largest group, making up 33 percent.
The dismantling of the churches has produced anxiety and soul-searching among parishioners, even in a country that tends to be more practical than emotional. Religion may seem irrelevant to many people, but the power of its images and symbolism endures.
"People were offended at first and said things like: How dare you violate the church?" said Willem van Vliet, who in 1984 bought a large disused Protestant church in the heart of Hoorn, a town north of Amsterdam.
The century-old, neo-Renaissance building had been closed for 20 years, and the local "save the church" group had not managed to collect enough money for basic repairs. Mr. van Vliet and his partners paid $2.6 million for the hulking church and parsonage. The heritage foundation and the provincial government put up a similar amount for repairs and conversion work.
"We had a lot of sleepless nights," said Mr. van Vliet, recalling the overhaul of the slated roof, propping up four towers and worrying about painstaking tasks like restoring leaded glass windows, chimneys and ornamented pillars.
Today the church has five floors. Shops occupy the first two. In the soaring height of the nave, Mr. van Vliet built 18 apartments.
"I'm proud as can be," he said. "We were so criticized, and now we have a waiting list of 80 families wanting to live here."
One tenant, a young woman, said she was not religious but loved the idea of living in a church and sleeping under its slanted roof. For the neighborhood there is another kind of comfort: up in its tower, the old carillon still chimes the familiar tunes.
Tessel Pollmann, the author of a study of converted churches, said that not all projects had been an economic success and that some were struggling to survive. A few have become public libraries that have proved impractical and difficult to heat.
"It costs a lot more to turn a church into an apartment building than to put up a new one," Ms. Pollmann said. "There are architectural limits; it's expensive to maintain. But people keep doing it. Land is scarce, and everything is urbanized and intensely managed. And this is a rich country where people can afford to do impractical things."
Amsterdam, the nation's capital, has more than a dozen former churches with a new purpose. The Vondel Church, an elegant neo-Gothic structure named after a hallowed Dutch writer, houses several discreet offices with only tiny name plates on the door. But a few blocks away, the Holland Diving shop has painted the outside of an disused Protestant church black, hung up large signs, replaced the pews with racks of wet suits and flippers and built a swimming pool in the apse.
"The church elders knew of our plans, and they accepted it," said Lothar de Bruijn, the manager. "But when the pastor came to take away the organ, he had tears in his eyes."
As merchants have become brasher, opposition has grown. On the edge of Rotterdam, local residents who were furious when a Protestant church was turned into a carpet salesroom campaigned until the most objectionable billboards were taken down. A synagogue in Weesp that was recently sold was about to re-open as a giant outlet for discount jeans. Local citizens, considering this undignified, mobilized and stopped the project.
Selling property has sometimes put religious elders in an awkward position. When a Muslim group wanted to buy the big 18th-century synagogue on the Wagen street in The Hague to use it as a mosque, the Jewish community opted for a go-between: It first sold the building to the city, which then sold it to the Muslims.
Of the country's nearly 40 Orthodox synagogues, only about a dozen are in use. Almost three of four Jews who lived in the Netherlands before World War II died in the Holocaust. Today many do not practice the faith.
The Roman Catholic Church is clearly the most reluctant to sell. A Catholic church is considered to occupy consecrated ground, explained Leo Klok, the head of finance for the Archdiocese of Utrecht.
"We must protect the dignity of the building, and that can be difficult," Mr. Klok said. "We make agreements with the Government or a buyer, and they are not always met. So against our wishes a few churches have become offices, dance halls and shops."
More than 125 Catholic churches have been closed since 1973, but just as many smaller ones have been opened that allow for more versatile use as community centers. The old buildings have been much in demand as mosques, because their large size. But the archdiocese hesitates to sell them to Islamic groups, after a few "difficult" experiences, Mr. Klok said.
"Islam has many currents, and you end up dealing not with a religious group but with the government behind them," he said.
In Utrecht, for instance, the Emmaus Church was being transferred ostensibly to an Islamic foundation. "It turned out we were dealing with the Libyan Government," Mr. Klok said.
The Archbishop's office has calculated that in the coming years, as people leave rural areas for the cities, 90 more Catholic churches around the country will have to close, too great a number to sell easily, specialists say.
"We prefer that the churches are used by other Christians or for a cultural purpose -- or perhaps even as funeral parlors," Mr. Klok said. "If a dignified destination cannot be found, then we prefer them to be demolished."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a former Protestant church in Amsterdam, the Holland Diving shop has built a swimming pool in what was once the apse. (Friso Keuris for The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Map showing the location of Amsterdam: Amsterdam has more than a dozen former churches with new uses. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (95%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); MOROCCO (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS; MOROCCO; TURKEY; NETHERLANDS (95%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); MOROCCO (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; SYNAGOGUES; MOSQUES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; REAL ESTATE RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); PAINTING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); REFUGEES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



232 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Artful Dodger

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Bill Clinton is one of the great masters of the art of politics, which in its essence is the art of the con -- the ability to convincingly declare that day is night, that up is down, that what is so is not.
He was at it again on Saturday, during his radio address. Aware that the day is coming when large numbers of women and children will be thrown off welfare and into destitution because of legislation that he signed (the devil made him do it, or the Republicans -- whatever), Mr. Clinton announced that he was ordering Federal agencies to recruit and hire welfare recipients. 
 Said Mr. Clinton: "Government can help to move people from welfare to work by acting the way we want all employers to act -- demanding high performance from workers but going the extra mile to offer opportunity to those who have been on welfare and want to do something more with their lives."
Listeners could be forgiven for imagining one-time welfare recipients hurrying off each morning to their spiffy new Government jobs. It was the image Mr. Clinton intended to create. A small problem, which he managed not to address, is that the Federal Government has little more than a handful of jobs -- at best -- that can go to welfare recipients. The President has been assiduously downsizing the Government, a fact that he never hesitates to mention when it is politically advantageous.
As Robert Pear wrote in yesterday's Times: "Mr. Clinton's initiative faces formidable obstacles because the Federal Government is not hiring many people. The President boasts that he has reduced the number of civilian employees in the executive branch by 13 percent, to 1.9 million, the lowest level in 30 years, and he promises that the Federal work force 'will continue shrinking' as he tries to balance the budget by 2002."
Welfare recipients, for the most part, require low-skilled entry-level positions. Mr. Pear noted: "For permanent blue-collar jobs last year, the Federal Government hired 32 people in the Boston area, 27 in Dallas, 8 in Kansas City, 31 in New York and 17 in Seattle."
Current lists of Government job openings nationwide typically show few entry-level opportunities: 11 openings for nursing assistants, 6 for clerk typists, 9 for mail and file clerks.
Proponents of welfare "reform" adamantly refuse to address the fundamental issue of whether there are jobs available for those who are forcibly removed from the rolls.
A recent study out of Chicago showed what should be plain to anyone who looks at this matter in good faith: the so-called welfare problem is the result of a big problem in the labor market.
The study was conducted by researchers from the Center for Urban Economic Development at the University of Illinois at Chicago and the Chicago Urban League. It found that while overall unemployment rates in Illinois are at their lowest levels in more than 20 years, the jobless rate for those needing entry-level jobs was nearly twice that of other workers.
The study found that there are four workers in search of entry-level jobs for every entry-level opening in Illinois. In the urban centers of Chicago and East St. Louis, the gap is worse: six workers for every entry-level opening in Chicago and nine for every opening in East St. Louis.
In rural Illinois, the same story: six to nine workers for every entry-level opening.
And while an entry-level job is a step in the right direction, it's not as if it's the answer to the hideous constellation of problems associated with long-term poverty. As the Chicago study notes: "If welfare reform is to promote self-sufficiency, workers must be able to secure jobs that pay enough to allow families to cover household necessities and work-related expenses."
But jobs that pay a so-called "livable wage" are in extremely short supply at the entry level. The study found that, depending on the wage level designated as minimally adequate, "there are between 33 and 222 less-skilled job seekers for every entry-level, livable job in Illinois."
To move people from welfare to work there has to be enough work. Right now there is not nearly enough. Mr. Clinton knows that. But he goes on the radio and speaks as if he didn't. The art of the con.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LABOR CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); CITIES (60%); NURSES & NURSING (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



233 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
China, Part III

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
At the recent Davos World Economic Forum I found myself seated at dinner next to the chairman of one of the world's largest energy companies, with major investments in Europe and China. He began by asking me: "What do you think about this Swiss-Jewish thing?" I told him the Swiss needed to be more forthcoming and he mumbled something about how the Swiss were no better or worse than anyone else in Europe. It was one of those conversations, though, where I knew if I had said, "Those Jews, they're just blackmailing the Swiss," this guy would have said, "Man, you're so right." Then he went on to China. What did I think of the U.S. human rights activism there? Before I could even answer, he unleashed a broadside against the U.S. for promoting human rights in China, and he added, for good measure, that one reason his oil business was doing so well there was because China didn't have all those pesky environmental rules.
The encounter ruined my dinner, but it was typical of the attitude of big business toward China today, which is craven, cynical and amoral. The most cynical say the job of business is business, and human rights in China is not their concern. Those slightly less cynical peddle the view that by doing business with China we are promoting free markets there, which will inevitably change the Chinese system into something close to democratic capitalism. Therefore we needn't press human rights, or rule of law, on China; it will happen naturally. 
 China's rapid economic growth definitely is prompting Beijing to introduce more rule of law in fields like copyright, administrative law and contracts. But there's nothing inevitable about this march ending with democracy and human rights in China and to pretend so is a cop-out. We've learned from what happened in the Soviet Union that the successor to Communism might not be democracy but "kleptocracy," where an economic elite rips off all the state assets. One reason that happened in Russia was that there was no rule-of-law foundation in place when the U.S.S.R. collapsed. We can't afford that in China.
Yes, the job of business is to make profits for shareholders, not to campaign for dissidents, like Wang Dan. But if business can't be persuaded to sacrifice profit for principles, it should be persuaded to not sacrifice the long term for the short term. In the short term, businesses can operate in China, without adequate rule of law there, by simply buying risk insurance or paying bribes. But this is a very shortsighted strategy.
As one diplomat in Hong Kong remarked to me: "How smart is it to be investing billions of dollars in a country which at any moment could surprise you with the worst thing you've ever seen on CNN -- all taking place in Tiananmen Square with your brand name in the background?"
Both Congress and the big pension funds need to encourage business to think long term. Congress should consider giving tax breaks to U.S. companies that promote rule-of-law practices in China. And fund managers should question any company that is too heavily invested in a country with inadequate rule of law.
U.S. business leaders better wake up. They do business with China in the context of a larger U.S.-China relationship -- and anyone who has been to Congress lately knows this larger relationship is in trouble. There is a sour mood in Congress these days about China -- a feeling that in the last few years the U.S. has so cravenly put profit ahead of principle with China that people are a little bit ashamed.
This mood could produce a violent reaction by Congress, if, for instance, China mishandles Hong Kong or is found to have massively meddled in the U.S. elections. If U.S. business wants to prevent such a lurch backward, it needs to start taking some responsibility for improving the overall framework of U.S.-China relations. That means taking some initiative to bridge the huge gap between the U.S. business community and the U.S. human rights community when it comes to China -- rather than always widening that gap. Business could start by looking for ways to promote rule of law in China, which helps commerce, human rights and the Chinese people.
I still believe in the mantra that human rights and business rights are just flip sides of the same coin -- the rule of law. And, in the long run, when there is no rule of law for Wang Dan there will be none for Microsoft, Mickey Mouse or Ronald McDonald.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); HONG KONG (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); HONG KONG (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%); BRIBERY (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



234 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2729 words

HEADLINE: In a Pocket of Brooklyn Sewn by Welfare, an Unraveling

SERIES: WELFARE NEIGHBORHOOD: Change Comes to Southside

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
Southside, a Latino and Hasidic section of Williamsburg, sits on one edge of Brooklyn, a neighborhood staring out at the lights of Manhattan. It is a neighborhood of dying industry and full-blown poverty, a neighborhood of churches and shuls, of immigrants and their children.
It is also a welfare neighborhood, and so it now feels a deep unease about the new welfare legislation and what it and similar local changes have done, and will mean. 
 Fear of the future is already reshaping life in Southside, where roughly half the 27,000 residents receive public assistance, money that not only supports families but also holds together the modest economy of bodegas, discount stores and travel agencies.
The effect can already be seen in tales of hardship and success and in the decisions of business people and institutions that function on welfare money.
Angel Feliciano, owner of the Latin Corner bodega, studies his bank statements -- more than two-thirds of his income comes from food stamps -- and frets about his store's prospects in a world of shrinking public assistance. Mr. Feliciano has decided that his bodega's future is perilous enough that he will not make his usual contribution to the neighborhood's Little League program. Mr. Feliciano said he believed that the city's aggressive efforts to trim the welfare rolls during the last two years had already helped reduce his monthly food stamp income to $1,600, from $2,100.
A former building superintendent, Hugo Contreras, 48, sent his three children back to the Dominican Republic after he was cut off from welfare for refusing his work assignment.
Miguel Pena, a 72-year-old Dominican immigrant in whom mental illness has been diagnosed, will lose his Federal disability benefits, known as Supplemental Security Income, within months because he is not a citizen. He, like many of the 80,000 legal immigrants similarly affected, has no other source of income.
The insular world of the neighborhood's Hasidim, one rich with children, will also feel the force of change. Rabbi David Niederman, a leader of the Satmar sect, estimates that 30 percent of the roughly 30,000 Hasidim in Williamsburg receive some form of public assistance. "As we don't believe in birth control, there is only one breadwinner in our families," he said. "Secular education for our men ends early. What jobs can they get? Doctors? Journalists?"
Meanwhile, working mothers wind up in tears daily at Nuestros Ninos, a city-financed day care center, after being told there is no space for their children, partly because the city has made welfare mothers its top priority for available slots.
So there is a palpable sense in Southside that its economy and people are on the cusp of a major transition as a result of the government's redefinition of what it will do for the poor. The complex currency of welfare reaches places obvious and not in Southside. It is spent on drugs, but also pays people's tithes to the dozens of Pentecostal churches; it buys fancy clothes, but also Catholic school tuition and Torah studies.
The forces starting to reshape Southside do not flow from one piece of legislation. Welfare reform is a series of changes in social policies, made at several levels of government. It is a patchwork of new laws and pending proposals, many of which will be phased in over weeks, months and years.
Of the 27,000 people in Southside, 6,200 have been receiving guaranteed cash and other assistance through the core Federal welfare program, Aid to Families with Dependent Children. The Federal Government has given control of this and other welfare programs to the states, and decreed that no person or family in neighborhoods like Southside will receive Federal money for longer than five years. Gov. George E. Pataki has proposed cutting the size of those Federal payments year by year as the five-year limit approaches for families. The results of the coming debate in the Legislature over his proposal will have direct consequences for the people of Southside.
In addition, 1,100 single childless adults in the neighborhood, ineligible for A.F.D.C., receive money through Home Relief, a state cash assistance program that Governor Pataki has proposed be eliminated. For the last year, New York City has been requiring both A.F.D.C. recipients and Home Relief recipients to work for their benefits.
Another 2,400 residents exist on Supplemental Security Income, which is Federal assistance for the elderly or disabled and is often used for medical care. The government has sent letters to hundreds of immigrants lacking citizenship saying they will be cut off from the program no later than this summer. Changes in Supplemental Security Income will also affect scores of children who will lose their monthly checks as a result of a toughening of Federal regulations for who qualifies as disabled.
An additional 3,700 people receive Medicaid as their only public subsidy. Food stamps will be eliminated for much of the welfare population: people who reach their welfare time limits, those who fail to meet the work requirements and immigrants who are not citizens.
The supporters of the welfare legislation have their own forecast for the future of a place like Southside: its residents will reclaim their independence, find work, give up the corrosive burden of welfare. And its economy, despite short-term damage, will emerge as an authentically healthy engine.
 
Ripple Effect
Economic Change, Dismal Decisions
It is hard to measure cause and effect so early on in the life of welfare reform, but the economic ripples are already being felt.
The administrators at a parochial elementary school, SS. Peter and Paul, worry about having to raise tuition if hardship forces parents to withdraw their children. Conversations in the boardroom of at least one bank that makes loans in Williamsburg have included talk of welfare reform's potential effects. Officials with a nonprofit economic development project acknowledge it may be more difficult to attract investors.
Moises Esdaille, the owner of the C-Town Supermarket on Havemeyer Street, closed his store last month after he was refused a loan by the Empire State Economic Development Corporation, the state agency that awards grants and loans to entrepreneurs and institutions across New York. More than 60 percent of Mr. Esdaille's business at the supermarket resulted from food stamps.
Mr. Esdaille, who admits he has had several financing problems, has been left to wonder how much the uncertain economic future of the neighborhood made his store appear a risk. "It was never said to me directly that they worried about what was going to happen to the neighborhood," said Mr. Esdaille, who laid off 15 workers. "But how could it not have been one reason?"
Randy Daniels, a senior vice president for economic revitalization at the Empire State Development Corporation, said concerns about Mr. Esdaille's debt and other problems were much much greater than any unease about the economic impact of welfare reform. Mr. Daniels, however, said, "We have to take note of anything that might have a positive or negative impact on a local economy, and so the impact of welfare reform will have to be taken note of in any decisions we make."
The store's supplier, Krasdale Foods Inc., which deals with small supermarkets across the city, was even more blunt about how the changes in welfare might affect its decisions in welfare neighborhoods.
"I think a lot of the store owners we deal with have bought into the idea that if welfare reform works, dealing with a neighborhood of working people that results is going to be good for them financially," said Ray Thek, a lawyer for Krasdale. "The question is what happens short term. It's absolutely true that we are going to be very conservative, even reticent, about what stores we get involved in."
People have been making painful decisions, great and modest, and preparing for difficult realities elsewhere in Southside.
An example of that has taken place at the Francis of Paola Preschool for disabled children in Williamsburg. The Federal Government, in addition to ending Supplemental Security Income benefits to legal immigrants lacking citizenship, will no longer extend hundreds of dollars in monthly benefits to children with learning delays or behavioral problems. School officials say that roughly one-fifth of the 280 students will lose their monthly checks of $500 to $800 in the coming months because they will not meet the new standards of disability.
As a result, school administrators are preparing the staff of 140 for layoffs.
"We know what might happen," said Carmen Pagan, a classroom aide and former recipient, "and so those who work here look at each other and think: 'I hope it's you that goes when the layoffs come.' You don't want to feel that in your heart. But you do."
 
Workfare Woes
Work Requirement Cuts Welfare Rolls
The greatest impact on Southside has resulted from the city's program to make people work for their benefits. The program, in place for two years, has helped reduce the city's welfare rolls, city officials say, to 900,000 from 1.1 million. More than 110,000 people have gone through the Work Experience Program, called WEP.
Scores of the 35,000 now participating in the workfare program come from Southside. Williamsburg Works, an agency with a limited staff on Union Avenue that tries to find work for welfare recipients, has been so overwhelmed with people sent by the city that it informed state and city officials that they would have to rethink their contract. One week, 35 welfare recipients involved in the city's mandatory work program showed up to look for jobs. No one got a job there.
The workfare program has produced casualties and successes. Mr. Contreras, who lives alone and gets by on odd jobs, said he refused his work assignment because he was frightened and humiliated by having to sweep streets for his welfare benefits. But Maggie Montalvo, a mother fearful of losing her benefits after 15 years on welfare, now meets her 20-hour-a-week work requirement by assisting teachers at her daughter's Head Start program. She is studying for a high school equivalency diploma.
"A lot of people are scared at first," Ms. Montalvo said. "They think their children will be deprived. But I needed help, a push. Half my life I stayed inside. I stayed inside, I thought, for my kids. Now I want to do something for me."
Others forced to work for their benefits remain mystified, uncertain why such a furor has been directed at women living on a sum that averages, for a family of three, $577 a month, plus $230 in food stamps.
Many of the women, a significant percentage in their 50's, are unsure what they are expected to do in the years to come. They do not consider their job prospects good, particularly in a neighborhood like Southside.
Antonia Medina, 58, arrived in Southside from Puerto Rico 30 years ago. A former factory worker, she has been required to clean McCarren Park, blocks north of Southside, for more than six months, receiving no guidance or training.
"Go to the factories, they are Dominicans, Mexicans, and they don't have papers," said Ms. Medina, who works 44 hours every two weeks for her $68.50 in cash benefits and roughly $150 in food stamps. "They take $3 an hour. I can't take that work. I didn't come here for welfare. But this WEP program is not a serious program to have people work."
Palmira Rodriguez, 55, suffers from asthma and was hospitalized during a trip to her city-mandated workfare job. But city officials insisted she could work, and cut her off from benefits. She had her benefits restored, but doctors hired by the city now say she can do office work. She is awaiting a hearing.
"I was an independent woman once," she said. "I worked at Bellevue Hospital. I don't wish to be on welfare. It's embarrassing. I feel like I am begging. But I am sick."
The work requirements have also strained the neighborhood's day care system. The city has directed the day care centers it finances to give first priority to welfare recipients.
So in January, the board of the Nuestros Ninos Child Development Center decided not to expand its operation, fearing that expanding to meet the demand caused by work requirements for welfare mothers might compromise its quality of care. So there is virtually no room for the children of the parents who stream through the door daily.
"It's not fair to make people who work wait longer," said Maria Rodriguez, 27, a legal secretary with two children and no subsidized day care options. "Everybody should have the same rights."
 
Don't Sell It Short
A Neighborhood With Resources
In the end, Southside may be up to the challenges. Many working people in Southside say they think that many recipients cheat the government and could be working.
"I know what goes on here," said Lena Manino, owner of Aldo's Coffee Shop in the heart of Southside. "Those are my taxes. Yes, there are people who need help. But out of 10 people on welfare in this neighborhood, maybe two deserve it."
The neighborhood, too, is not without resources. Physically rehabilitated from the days of arson and abandonment in the 1970's -- the number of reported felony crimes has fallen 42 percent during the last three years -- the neighborhood has churches, an alternative high school, an array of addiction treatment centers. Parts of the neighborhood fall within the boundaries of a major city and state plan to build affordable housing. And there is a legacy of political organizing among the Puerto Ricans.
But any positive remaking of the neighborhood will be difficult. Southside reflects discouraging national demographic realities: more Latinos are now officially defined as poor than are members of any other group, and their incomes are declining further; only 5 percent have college degrees; nearly 90 percent do not speak English as their primary language.
Roughly 15 percent of the neighborhood's children are born to teen-age mothers; scores of its households include the welfare-supported granddaughters of welfare-dependent grandmothers; much of its work force consists of illegal immigrants. There is also virtually no medical infrastructure in Southside. The distant Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center is the site of nearly all care. Drug use remains a plague. Domestic violence, which studies have shown often shackles women to welfare, is widespread.
Manufacturing, once the thumping economic heart of the area, is a faint presence. Many remaining factories flout laws governing wages and legal employment.
"I have worked for 10 years, put money away for my kids, seen the neighborhood improve," said Mike Vasquez, a building superintendent raised by a mother on welfare. "Maybe the neighborhood now goes down the drain. Welfare has been a kind of security for the neighborhood."
Residents say the welfare measures could widen the fractures already coursing through the neighborhood.
Divides of distrust have long separated the old-line Puerto Rican households from those of the more recent Latino arrivals, with many Puerto Ricans saying that Dominicans and Mexicans have helped destroy the job market, taking jobs for substandard wages.
Another chasm has separated the Latinos and the Hasidim, groups that are as suspicious of each other about welfare and the real need for it as they always have been about housing, police protection and political clout.
The Rev. Matthew Foley, pastor of Epiphany Roman Catholic Church in Southside for 37 years, said: "There were families on welfare in great numbers when I came, and there are even greater numbers of them now. For some it was a moral question. For others it was a practical question. Mainly it was a question of surviving and finding a way to do that. Now we will see if there is another way."

Welfare Neighborhood
The nation's welfare system is being reshaped with an array of policy changes at the local, state and Federal levels. Some people have forecast disaster for the poor; others see the end of decades of dependence and dishonesty. In the coming months, this series will examine how the changes come together in one Brooklyn neighborhood, Southside in Williamsburg. It will measure consequences and opinions. This is the first visit.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A treeless street in Brooklyn's Southside, where new welfare rules are having an impact, and residents and merchants fear for the future. (pg. A1); In Southside, part of the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, the proportion of children is 50 percent higher than in New York City as a whole, according to census figures; A landlord, Ari Gottman, ordered Debra Brown, Robin Sirota and Evelyn Cardona off his property last month. The women were protesting changes in welfare rules. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Changing Rules, New Deadlines"
 
So Far
 
FEBRUARY 1995 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani begins a program that includes investigations of new applicants for welfare, the fingerprinting of recipients to prevent fraud and mandatory work requirements for adult recipients.
 
AUG. 22, 1996 President Clinton signs sweeping welfare legislation, ending 60 years of guaranteed Federal financial help for the poor.
 
SEPT. 21, 1996 The city begins denying Federal food stamps to new applicants who are legal immigrants but not citizens.
 
JAN. 1, 1997 All people receiving Supplemental Security Income benefits because of substance abuse or alcohol problems are to be terminated unless they can show another underlying disability.
 
Coming Up
 
MARCH 31 Many legal residents who are noncitizens receiving S.S.I. will have been notified that they are no longer eligible for benefits.
 
APRIL 1 The city can begin removing legal immigrants from the food stamp program. An estimated 100,000 to 130,000 people receive stamps. They must be removed by Aug. 22.
 
APRIL 1 Toughened immigration rules go into effect, including no judicial review of people seeking asylum, and no guaranteed legal aid for those seeking asylum.
 
JULY 1 Because of limitations placed on the criteria for qualification, children receiving S.S.I. for disabilities that are no longer applicable will begin to have their benefits terminated. (pg. B6)
 
Table/Map: "A Portrait of Southside"
Table compares demographic data for Southside and New York City. Census tracts surveyed within Southside, a neighborhood in Williamsburg, are indicated by a lighter shade in the map. The shading does not reflect the boundaries of Southside. The data are for 1990 unless noted. (Sources; Census Bureau, New York City Human Resources Administration, New York City Department of Health) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series; Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (59%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (59%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; HASIDISM; JEWS RELIGION (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); FOOD STAMPS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (54%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



235 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Palestinians Say Pullback By Israel Is Not Enough
The Palestinians rejected Israel's decision to withdraw from 9 percent more of the land it occupies, giving Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu an unexpected new crisis. After a three-hour meeting, the Palestinian negotiator said the territory to be turned over was insufficient. Foreign Minister David Levy reiterated Israel's position that the peace accords left it to Israel to decide on the size of the pullback, and he indicated that the matter was not closed. A8
 
Offer From Albanian Leader
 President Sali Berisha of Albania proposed a plan for a transitional government and national elections, but the offer appeared to be too little and too late to placate the rebels centered in the southern port of Vlore. Rebel leaders said they still wanted the resignation of Mr. Berisha, a hard-line leader widely blamed for failing to curb fraudulent financial schemes that have cost Albanians some $1.5 billion in savings. A3
 
Bonn Is Said to Expel American
A United States diplomat was expelled from Germany after being accused of committing economic espionage against that country, the news magazine Der Spiegel reported. A State Department official said that Germany had notified the United States that an American was to be expelled, but that the person had not yet left. German officials refused to comment. A6
 
Refugees Scatter in Zaire
United Nations officials began searching for tens of thousands of refugees who had scattered into the jungles in eastern Zaire. On their first return after evacuating the region nine days ago, relief officials found several hundred bone-thin people in the ruins of the Tingi Tingi camp, which was overrun by rebels last week. They said more than 100,000 others had either melted into the bush or pushed on to a Government-held town about 80 miles away. A5
 
Ex-Leader Charged in Ecuador
Ecuador's Supreme Court charged former President Abdala Bucaram and four top aides with corruption and embezzlement in a case involving $88 million. After being voted out by Congress last month, Mr. Bucaram and his aides left the presidential palace with 11 burlap sacks stuffed with money, investigators say. Mr. Bucaram's secretary, Oscar Celleri, was arrested carrying $3.4 million in a border town near Peru on Friday. Mr. Bucaram denies any wrongdoing. (AP)
 
Kabul University Reopens
Kabul University reopened its doors for the first time since the Taliban religious army took control of the Afghan capital in September. Many of the buildings were ruined by bomb and rocket attacks, and much of the campus, littered with land mines, is off-limits. The Taliban have banned women from the school as both students and teachers. Before the school was closed, women made up about 60 percent of the teachers and half the student body. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A10-12, B7-8
 
Showdown Looms Over H.M.O. Changes
A showdown is shaping up between Congress and the managed-care industry as both sides weigh the likelihood of legislation to set standards for the quality of care offered by health maintenance organizations. Lawmakers say they are responding to constituents' frustrations with H.M.O.'s. Managed-care companies denounce the prospect of new Federal regulation but find themselves in an awkward position because they also say they want to protect consumers. A1
 
Rap Artist Is Fatally Shot
The Notorious B.I.G., a gangsta rap artist who turned his drug-dealing past on the streets of Brooklyn into a platinum-selling recording career, was killed in Los Angeles in an apparent drive-by shooting. The victim, whose real name was Christopher G. Wallace, was the second big-name rapper to be slain in the last six months. Mr. Wallace, 24, was a fierce rival of Tupac Shakur, who died in September, six days after being shot in a drive-by attack in Las Vegas. A10
 
Rain and Prayer Along the Ohio
Residents along the Ohio River had to contend with more rain in their devastated towns. In Falmouth, Ky., about 100 residents gathered in a single church for worship because most of the rural area's other eight churches had been too badly damaged by the Licking River's floodwaters to be used. A10
 
Labor Shifts Organizing System
American labor leaders are shifting their tactics for organizing workers. They are frequently dropping a 60-year tradition of concentrating on workplace elections to focus on getting at least 51 percent of the employees at a company to sign cards backing a union and then demand that the company recognize it. One result is likely to be more clashes with managers, who often reject recognition requests based on signed cards and demand secret-ballot elections instead. B7
 
Feinstein Alerted on Donations
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California said the F.B.I. had warned her that the Chinese Government might try to funnel illegal contributions to her campaign and other Congressional campaigns through middlemen. But she said the information had not influenced her position or her vote on any issue. B8
 
Dodd Sees No Reform
Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who was general chairman of the Democratic National Committee at the height of the Clinton re-election drive, said the current reports of abuses in political fund-raising had not stirred up the degree of public outrage needed to force changes. "Reform will not be passed," he said. He called the current fund-raising system "contaminating," but said he was hard at work raising money for his 1998 re-election race anyway. B8
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Trenton Poised to Enshrine Ticket Brokers' Freedom
The New Jersey Legislature is close to passing a bill that would let ticket brokers charge concertgoers and sports fans as much as they could. The state is in the midst of an 18-month experiment with deregulation of ticket brokers; the bill would make that experiment permanent even before its time expires. Whether the experiment has caused ticket prices to go down or up is not likely to be clear before lawmakers act. B1

Funeral for 2 Killed by Tree
Several hundred people attended a wake and funeral in Queens for two young sisters who were killed when a tree blew down onto their school van. The other two children killed in the accident will be buried today. B1
 
Security Plans in Bayonne
New security measures are to begin this morning at Bayonne High School in New Jersey, where a student was fatally stabbed in a hallway last week. The school's 40 doors will remain locked at all times, except for three that will be open in the morning until 9 A.M. Visitors will be allowed in only at the main entrance, which will be monitored by a video camera. And everyone will be required to wear identification badges throughout the day. B4
 
A Renewed Plea on Abortion
John Cardinal O'Connor joined the nation's other Roman Catholic leaders in urging President Clinton to change his mind and sign a bill that would make certain late-term abortions illegal. The Cardinal's opposition to the procedure, known by its opponents as "partial birth" abortion, was not new. But it was given new impetus by an abortion-rights supporter's admission that he had lied last year when he said the procedure was used only rarely. B3

SPORTSMONDAY C1-10
 
N.C.A.A. Sets Tournament Field
The defending champion, Kentucky, joined Kansas, North Carolina and Minnesota as the highest-seeded teams in the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament. Among the high-profile teams that did not get bids were Syracuse, West Virginia, Fresno State and Michigan. C1
 
ARTS C11-16
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-12
 
TV Ratings' Accuracy Debated
The Nielsen Media Research Company reported that the average number of American households watching prime-time television on all channels fell by well over one million in February. The broadcast networks stepped up their complaints that Nielsen's methods were inaccurate and outdated. They have joined together to help finance an experimental ratings system that they hope will either become a full-fledged competitor to Nielsen or force it to change its methods and answer their complaints. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
Edward M. Purcell
A Harvard University physicist, he helped make the first detection of radio emissions from clouds of hydrogen in space, a technique that is now a prime astronomical tool. Dr. Purcell shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1952 for discovering a way to detect the extremely weak magnetism of the atomic nucleus. He was 84. B9
 
Mac Charles Jones
The Baptist minister who led the National Council of Churches' drive to focus attention on a wave of racist arson fires at black churches in the rural South was 47. B9
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
Editorials: No change in capital gains, let our jurors go, Philip Taubman on "Shine."
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Anthony Lewis, Bob Herbert.
 
Chronicle 
 
B4 Bridge B12
 
Crossword C16
 
Weather B12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ALBANIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); GERMANY (93%); ECUADOR (92%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ALBANIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); GERMANY (93%); ECUADOR (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (85%); TALIBAN (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); EMBEZZLEMENT (68%); ARRESTS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ESPIONAGE (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); BOMBINGS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997



236 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: As More Sharks Wind Up on Plates, Need for Protection Rises

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONE of mankind's largest and least regulated harvests of creatures from the wild is ravaging many of the world's shark species, but nascent international efforts to protect the species are hampered by a deep ignorance, not only about how many are killed but also about how they live and what they need to survive.
"Little effort has been made to collect even the most basic kinds of information, such as numbers of sharks caught and discarded, necessary for meeting even minimal standards of management of fisheries affecting sharks," says a report on the species to be issued this week by the Center for Marine Conservation, an environmental advocacy group based in Washington. 
 The report says little is known about the life history and other characteristics of most shark species, like growth rates, reproductive potential, distribution, movements and interactions with other species.
Other recent studies echo the complaint. Now that demand and prices for shark are rising worldwide, they say, the low priority placed on shark research and management is a relic of the past.
Long relegated to second-class status, shark fishing is expanding worldwide, rising in prominence as other fish for the table become scarcer and as a worldwide trade in shark fins and other exotic shark products grows rapidly.
The reports of landings, the amount of fish brought to shore, of sharks and related species, like skates and rays, together called elasmobranchs, grew from about 220,000 tons in 1947 to more than 800,000 tons in 1994, according to sketchy data collected by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. The actual total catch is thought to be at least twice that much because there is substantial underreporting of how many sharks are caught incidentally by people who are fishing for other species in commercial, recreational and subsistence fishing.
The United States is one of the few countries to have imposed major controls on shark fishing. Its recent proposals to tighten restrictions even further this year are being welcomed by conservation groups but have provoked dissent from the fishing industry.
The proposed rule would reduce the annual quota for large coastal sharks taken in Eastern United States waters by 50 percent, to a little more than 1,400 tons, while also imposing a quota of 1,940 tons on small coastal sharks, about a third less than the current catch. Five species would be put off-limits altogether.
But in comments to the National Marine Fisheries Service, which is expected to issue a final rule within weeks, the fishing industry has argued that the tightening is premature because populations of these sharks may have already stabilized or even begun to recover since quotas and other controls were first imposed in 1993.
"Patience is truly a virtue," said John J. Hoey, a shark scientist at the National Fisheries Institute, an industry group, "and so is honestly describing the difficult position we are in, in terms of scientifically evaluating what has happened and what else needs to be done to enhance management and our understanding of current conditions."
The debate over the American shark controls would surely be amplified if any strong measures were proposed to control fishing for these species worldwide.
According to documents drafted by the United States for consideration by the various world bodies studying the issue, only 10 of the countries that report shark landings make any attempt to manage their fisheries, and only four countries have detailed management plans for shark fishing. Few international bodies are competent to manage shark fishing, and none are actively doing so, the documents say.
But several world bodies are encouraging member countries to at least collect more information, a vital first step toward regulating the industry.
How to build international rules to control shark fishing has been closely examined by the world's fishing nations for only the past three years, following the adoption of a resolution by the Conference on International Trade in Endangered Species, calling for some kind of global action.
Next week in Rome, the Committee on Fisheries of the Food and Agriculture Organization is expected to take up the subject, and at the next full meeting of the conference on endangered species, in Harare, Zimbabwe, in June, there may be debate on adding some sharks and their products to the list of protected species whose parts are restricted in international trade.
But any formal steps to devise international measures to protect sharks could be years away.
"We have to do the homework first," said Erhard Rucke, F.A.O.'s senior fisheries officer in Rome. "We are in rather bad shape with regard to information on a global basis."
Conservation groups warn, meanwhile, that the quirks of human appetite and the economics of the fish trade seem to be conspiring against sharks.
Their slow growth, long lives, extended gestation and low birth rates -- classic characteristics of big predators -- make the species especially vulnerable to human predation.
There are a number of factors driving people to increase shark fishing.
The most prominent is the surge in demand for shark fin, which is dried and processed into the gelatinous main ingredient of the famous Chinese soup. Global trade for this product, centered in Hong Kong, is booming.
In the United States, dealer prices for wet fins range, depending on the species, size and quality, from a few dollars up to more than $100 per pound, and dried fins can go for twice as much. That has helped stimulate the shark fishing industry, especially in Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico waters, although simply chopping off the fins and discarding the shark's body, a common practice around the world, is now discouraged by United States regulations.
Shark meat itself is increasingly sold, as traditional species are depleted and fishermen shift to new ones. In Taiwan, the value of shark meat exports is greater than the value of fin exports, even though the price per pound of meat is far less.
Other shark products include liver oil, skin and the increasingly widely traded cartilage, believed by some to have medicinal value despite the lack of credible evidence for its reputed anticancer powers.
Retail prices for shark cartilage are high -- sometimes more than $100 for a bottle of capsules. But dried cartilage goes for $1 a pound wholesale and wet cartilage for even less, giving fisherman scant incentive to harvest this product for its own sake.
Whatever the market, untrammeled fishing for sharks is almost certain to push some populations to the edge of extinction, conservation experts say.
The Center for Marine Conservation report says: "Traditional strategies for managing fisheries are predicated on the reproductive biology of fishes that release large numbers of eggs, few of which need survive to adulthood in order to maintain abundance. Sharks, on the other hand, produce few young, many of which survive to adulthood."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scavenger fish feed on carcass of a gray reef shark that has been stripped of its fins; it lies on the sea floor off the coast of Thailand near Koh Tachai. (Mark Strickland/Innerspace Visions)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (83%); CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (83%); CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHARKS; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES FISHES (92%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (91%); MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FISHERIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



237 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST AT WORK: Robert C. Gallo;
For Besieged Scientist, New Start in New Lab

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
As he exercises command from a splendid new battlement in medical science's slogging campaign against AIDS, Dr. Robert C. Gallo seems at least as resilient as his quarry.
"You grow when you're challenged or when you're hurt, don't you?" the 59-year-old virologist asked in dark recollection of a nightmare time in his often brilliant but once bedimmed career as one of the country's leading AIDS researchers. 
 "If everything is perfect and going along harmonious, I don't think you have any chance to grow as a human," he observed. He spoke as a survivor of some hard years of notoriety that might have sent lesser scientists into eclipse: first, an international dispute challenging his co-discovery of the AIDS virus, then a bruising professional misconduct inquiry that followed.
Ultimately cleared, Dr. Gallo has not just landed on his feet. He has engineered one of the dream assignments of medical research as director of the new Institute of Human Virology here at the University of Maryland city campus.
The institute, intended to concentrate on AIDS but to work beyond it on an array of viral diseases, was tailored for Dr. Gallo by university and Government sponsors after a multistate competition for his services. It is being hailed by envious peers as a flagship venture.
The institute is an unusual enterprise because it combines in a single $52 million building the basic research that is Dr. Gallo's forte plus full epidemiological and clinical divisions, a drug marketing company to try to keep the financing pump primed from discoveries and even an in-house animal testing division to speed the tight path mapped here between single-site experimentation and therapy.
"It's a state-of-the-art place, but that's not necessarily all," said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, a longtime colleague and AIDS researcher who is director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. "The Baltimore institute is already a very important component of the AIDS effort in this country because Bob Gallo, a brilliant scientist, is the main driving force there."
Fiercely dedicated, at times intemperate and often controversial, Dr. Gallo is a virtuoso in basic medical research, a complex world where ego can be as big an X-factor as any virus. He came here six months ago after 30 years as one of the most celebrated scientists at the National Cancer Institute. There, he and his research teams were responsible for significant success in registering scores of discovery patents and reaping tens of millions of dollars for the Government in royalties.
Most notable is the widely used blood-screening test for the AIDS virus, whose royalties he shares with a French team at the Pasteur Institute. A dispute over shared laboratory samples and primacy in discovery caused an international uproar a decade ago that had to be settled by a co-discovery agreement signed by the Presidents of France and the United States.
Afterward, Dr. Gallo labored to pursue fresh research while enduring four years of detailed scientific and Congressional inquiries into misconduct charges of falsifying research information and using French AIDS research to pave the way for his own claims. Confrontation and record-combing became his routine. Investigators at the Department of Health and Human Services found that there had been "minor misconduct," but the charges were dropped after an appeals panel found that they had not been proved. Dr. Gallo describes the experience as nothing less than harrowing and said it would have been unendurable but for the support of colleagues at the National Institutes of Health.
"Something like that does tend to make you a better person," he speculated warily, speaking with far less elan than he shows at his laboratory blackboard in diagramming the mysteries of AIDS. "Humbled?" he responded, rising to a question. "No. Empathetic is a better word: I'm more understanding of other peoples' hurts and problems.
"Humbled? No. You get too humble, you lose all your confidence, and then you can't think about science," he explained, suddenly sober at that prospect. "Actually, I became more determined -- determined that I lost years of research that I have to make up for. I always think, what if we were operating full blast in those years? We were at 50 percent, one arm tied behind our back, my colleagues being put through hell, too."
As he moves handsomely beyond that past, the gleaming new institute, reborn from the skeleton of an old shoe factory, seems not only a measure of Dr. Gallo's avowed indomitability but a device for him to try to catch up with some of that lost science. It offers one-stop shopping for his restless mind and ambition.
"The major reason for being here is to bring from lab to clinic, better and faster, the advances we believe in," he said of the institute, which has a staff of 90 and a budget of $30 million, which is expected to grow to 300 people and $100 million in five years. "This is a day-and-night difference," he said of the national institutes, which he speaks of fondly but commutes past daily in his fresh perch in the outside world. "Here, we have much more ease in bringing from lab to clinic, and certainly far more exchange of ideas."
Situated around an atrium and occupying four of the six floors in the university's Medical Biotechnology Center, the institute is attracting a galaxy of respected scientists, with more than 700 applications pending, Dr. Gallo said. Beyond weekly interdisciplinary conferences, the center was laid out for casually routing its central laboratory specialists down common corridors and open stairwells in a kind of Brownian-motion hope of sparking fresh notions.
Parallel with his research effort, epidemiology is in the charge of Dr. William A. Blattner, former chief of viral epidemiology at the National Cancer Institute. The clinic operation, which is already treating 4,000 AIDS patients who live nearby, is run by Dr. Robert R. Redfield, who is credited as the first investigator to demonstrate the heterosexual spread of the virus that causes AIDS. Dr. Joseph L. Bryant directs the animal testing program, where transgenics is emphasized, with mice scampering under the burden of transplanted human Kaposi sarcomas, the purplish skin cancers that are common among AIDS sufferers.
"This is the new paradigm of how things can happen," said Dr. Edmund C. Tramont, a virologist who directs the university's Medical Biotechnology Center, which includes the institute. He has also enlisted as Dr. Gallo's subordinate in charge of the institute's vaccine division.
"How do you take advantage of an artist?" Dr. Tramont asks in explaining the research, clinical and entrepreneurial inducements arrayed to attract Dr. Gallo here. These include $12 million a year in state and city financing to promote economic development in Baltimore's already thriving medical science industries. Plus an entrepreneurial venture named Omega Bio therapies that is intended to capitalize on useful discoveries.
However dogged by controversy, Dr. Gallo is clearly bolstered by loyalty and his continued strength as a researcher. Even before his role in isolating the AIDS virus, he had shown a pioneer's flair in virology in 1980, when his team discovered the first virus demonstrated to be a direct cause of cancer -- the beginning of the retrovirus studies that are now a critical focus in AIDS research.
As the author of more than 1,000 scientific papers and other publications, Dr. Gallo is probably the most cited scientific investigator in the literature of AIDS. Even critics who contend that he is too prize-driven and egocentric concede that his research has continued unabated.
Dr. Gallo's institute has a decidedly post-AIDS outlook. He anticipates a time when a variety of therapies will prove AIDS "clinically curable" in most cases and the institute will focus more on a wide spectrum of other virological problems and suspicions that already interest him and his colleagues. These include tumor and leukemia viruses, the possible role of hepatitis in cancers, questions about the role of papilloma virus in cervical cancer and even the theory that disorders like multiple sclerosis might have viral origins.
"There's no reason not to think of AIDS as a controllable disease in time," Dr. Gallo said, noting the success of combination therapies.
"If you can control the virus replication for the life of an individual, you likely will have a clinically curable disease," he said, drawing a parallel with insulin and diabetes.
But true success will remain elusive, he said, so long as a significant minority of sufferers do not tolerate current drugs well "and 99 percent of the people of the world who are H.I.V.-infected cannot afford them."
"So how can we then say, 'Fine, we've done it'? We have to think of alternatives that are less expensive and less toxic," Dr. Gallo said.
"We know more about this disease than we know about any other cause of any other human disease in the history of medicine," he said. "But that hasn't necessarily translated into a quick fix for many reasons because of the complexity."
But persistence in the face of complexity is Dr. Gallo's strength.
"He's incredibly resilient," said Dr. Fauci, his old colleague at the health institutes. "If you look at the stress and the strain Bob went through over those several years when he was literally under a microscope virtually every day, every week, I think it would have worn down and perhaps broken a lesser spirit. His new center is a breath of fresh air for him, on fresh ground, and he can concentrate on what he loves and what he's very good at. And that is science."
From his new station, Dr. Gallo hesitates to look back triumphantly. "I got trapped in a bad period," he said. Young researchers on his old team, many of them with him now, inspired him through that period, he insists. "Nobody was anything other than positive, supportive, angry, fighting, mad, the whole business."
At this memory, his signature self-confidence seems muted.
"I look upon it as a period of extreme ignorance combined with cruelty and witch-hunting," said Dr. Gallo, who noted that among the valued researchers he quickly hired here was Dr. Mikulas Popovic, a virologist who had been investigated and cleared along with Dr. Gallo.
"One might anticipate that from all this evidence, after all the sound and fury, there would be at least a residue of palpable wrongdoing," the appeals panel of scientists finally concluded. "This is not the case."
Still, those days echo for Dr. Gallo. "I don't believe that every human being in this country would ever believe the truth or ever know the truth," he said. "And I'm not sure it's worth trying to tell them."
Ultimately, his explanation of how he prevailed is elemental. "The answer was, I had a functional lab," Dr. Gallo declared. He nodded firmly amid the shiny new setting for his resilient ambition, a scientist well in command of a functional laboratory and then some.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Robert C. Gallo in his new laboratory in Baltimore. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF HUMAN VIROLOGY; UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND; NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (52%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (82%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF HUMAN VIROLOGY; UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND; NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (82%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (50%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RESEARCH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) AIDS & HIV (96%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VIROLOGY (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); CANCER (89%); VIRUSES (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); 

PERSON: GALLO, ROBERT C (DR); FAUCI, ANTHONY S (DR); CLINES, FRANCIS X JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



238 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Doubts on Monetary Union Buoy Mark Against the Dollar

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against the German mark yesterday as fresh doubts that European monetary union would start on time buoyed the German currency.
A German economic adviser and a central bank official both suggested that the country might fail to meet some of the criteria for the single currency, the Euro, which is scheduled for introduction in 1999. 
 The Euro would effectively merge the mark, the strongest European currency, with some weaker ones. Signs that monetary union might be delayed typically bolster the mark.
"The mark is the best place to be" if monetary union does not happen, said Roger Chapin, foreign exchange manager at the Banc One Corporation in Columbus, Ohio. "That is the major factor weighing on the dollar right now."
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.7020 marks, from 1.7145 on Friday. It eased to 121.63 yen from 121.82. The British pound edged up to $1.6033, from a five-week low of $1.6013 on Friday.
Concern over European monetary union increased after a weekend newspaper report. Herbert Hax, chairman of the Government council of economic advisers, said Germany was unlikely to meet some of the criteria for joining, an article in Bild am Sonntag reported.
A Bundesbank council member, Klaus-Dieter Kuhbacher, echoed that concern in a speech yesterday, saying he doubted that Germany could meet its goal of cutting its budget deficit to 2.9 percent of the gross domestic product this year, given the absence of a self-sustaining recovery and as high unemployment eroded tax revenue.
Last week, the Bonn Government said that joblessness had increased in February to its highest level in more than 60 years.
Another report, in the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and quoting the Kiel Institute of World Economics, said the German deficit would reach 3.5 percent of output this year, and that debt would come to 61.5 percent of output.
To qualify for the single currency, countries must lower their deficits to about 3 percent of their G.D.P. and reduce debt toward 60 percent. They must also meet criteria on inflation, long-term interest rates and currency stability. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY MONETARY UNIONS (95%); CURRENCIES (92%); GERMAN MARK (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



239 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS;
N.F.L. Meets in Desert, And Everyone's Thirsty

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir 

DATELINE: PALM DESERT, Calif.

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch stood at the entrance of the little nighttime pool bash that his Fox Sports division threw yesterday for the National Football League.
At one point, the man who writes annual checks to the N.F.L. of $395 million but can't get his cable news channel shown in New York City chatted with some of the potentates who share in the manna: H. Wayne Huizenga, the Dolphins owner, and Leon Hess, the Jets owner and hitherto unknown stand-up comic. They're each getting nearly $10 million a year in Murdoch money, so neither had to ask, as Fox's Terry Bradshaw did, as his boss left the party, "Mr. Murdoch, would you give me a dollar?" 
 Here at the N.F.L.'s annual meetings, the next TV contract is not on the agenda. But in a way it is. Television money nourishes the league. The current deal ends after the coming season. Everybody seemingly has an opinion on how much money will be showered on the N.F.L. in the new deal, on who shall be in and who shall be out, and who needs to pay through a larger nose than anyone has ever envisioned. And all this conjecture is taking place in the desert, two hours from a very large city without an N.F.L. team.
By the fall, the TV deal will be the most important thing on the agenda, when Fox, NBC, ABC, ESPN and TNT vie to keep what they have and CBS fights to take something back for itself. In 1993, Fox proved that a needy, covetous outsider could change league economics by overpaying beyond the limits of anyone's optimistic hopes -- in that instance, $1.58 billion for four years, or 49 percent more than CBS had paid from 1990 to 1993 to televise National Football Conference games.
But Fox's expensive game of leapfrog was a surprise. CBS Sports' hunger is now a given and is providing the league with more leverage than William Perry on a teeter-totter, despite TV ratings weakness, the absence of an N.F.L. franchise in Los Angeles and the impending departure of the Oilers from Houston. Al Davis, the Oakland Raiders chieftain, created some nervous chuckles recently when he suggested that the league may double its current $4.4 billion TV take.
But Jeff Lurie, the Philadelphia Eagles owner, did not chortle at the notion as he nursed a beverage courtesy of the munificent Murdoch.
"Doubling? I wouldn't say no," Lurie said. "ABC is going to have to step way up."
"Doubling? How about tripling?" asked Paul Tagliabue, the N.F.L. commissioner. (We think he was kidding.) Suddenly, he turned lawyerly. "We're expecting an increase."
"Oh yeah, we'll get a boost," said Robert K. Kraft, the New England Patriots owner and the newest member of the broadcast committee.
And yes, it will come partly from the hide of ABC, which escaped in the current deal with a mere 2.2 percent increase from $900 million to $920 million, to renew "Monday Night Football." "M.N.F." regularly ranks among prime time's top 10, a three-hour block of time that generally slays its competition. The N.F.L. had already wrapped up its ABC and ESPN deals by the time Fox trumped CBS and NBC jacked up its fee by 15 percent to keep the A.F.C.
Thus, an imbalance in the annual-fee department exists among the three broadcast networks: Fox at $395 million, ABC at $230 million and NBC at $217 million.
Hoo ha, just look at the potential for growth that the N.F.L. sees: ABC and NBC won't climb up to Fox levels, but they can be pushed higher and higher.
And, if one does not want to be pushed too high, well, maybe CBS would. This will be a game defined by how much of a premium networks place on being in the N.F.L.
"It's our priority to be in at the best price possible," said Chase Carey, the president of Fox Television. A lower one? Hardly. Carey discounts ratings weakness at the three networks as one of miscalculation by Nielsen Media Research, and views the N.F.L.'s continuing appeal as the most distinctive product in sports television.
"Its value is driven by its uniqueness," Carey said. "It's a great franchise." Not the words of someone who thinks he can drive his price down to his rivals' levels.
He added: "The packages are not in balance. The fees are not proportional to the ad dollars. No one's complaining about it, but as you look at the next round, we hope there will be more parity in the rights fees near us, which will make everybody sell harder."
TNT and ESPN will pay more to split Sunday night on cable, too, assuming both stay in the picture. Together, they pay more annually than ABC does individually, which is another element of the imbalance. Speculation has centered on CBS eyeing the Sunday night package, but why? Sunday is a strong night for CBS's prime-time programs; why sacrifice it to the unevenness of the matchups endured by ESPN and TNT, which may yield decent cable ratings but would fall short of decent numbers for CBS?
"It's very important for us to retain it," said Harvey Schiller, the president of Turner Sports, standing within 50 feet of Murdoch but across the pool from Tagliabue. "The N.F.L. made TNT as a network. As it made Fox and made 'Monday Night.' "
And, it would remake CBS if CBS is allowed in the sandbox, which will happen only if the N.F.L. does not make a deal with its incumbents during an exclusive negotiating period that ends Oct. 1. The incumbents may look at what ante the league tells them to pay, and say, okey-dokey. But the N.F.L. would seem to be too smart to blow the leverage offered by CBS and not check out its cash wad.
It should be a giggle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (66%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); ASK ASA (71%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK JETS (57%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (57%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK JETS (57%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (57%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (66%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; TELEVISION SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



240 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Decline Ahead of Data On Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Government securities slipped yesterday, with few investors willing to buy ahead of economic data to be reported this week, for fear that if the news is too robust, the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates to avert inflation.
While most market participants expect the Fed to wait until May to tighten credit, some are beginning to suspect that it will come this month. 
 "Chairman Greenspan is inching closer to a pre-emptive strike," said Sung Won Sohn, senior vice president and chief executive of the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. "The tight labor market and above-trend economic growth have raised the probability of tighter monetary policy, but hikes in interest rates will be limited," he added, because the inflation picture looks good, and the dollar's appreciation is equivalent to monetary tightening.
The 30-year bond was down 2/32, to a price of 97 19/32 to yield 6.81 percent, unchanged from Friday's close. With a lack of new data to influence the market's direction, trading was mostly on technical factors.
"Given the market's renewed inflation anxieties," Anthony Chan, a vice president and the chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, "financial market investors are likely to focus this week on Friday's release of the Producer Price Index, with Thursday's retail sales report for February as the second most important number for the week." He added, "Investors will also be holding their breaths in anticipation of the Fed's beige book report, another part of the puzzle."
"Nonetheless," Mr. Chan said, "our view suggests that the employment report on Friday failed to provide the smoking gun needed to put to rest any or all doubts about a possible Fed tightening at the March 25 policy meeting. So we are sticking with our view that a May rate hike has a better chance, barring any negative surprises from either the P.P.I. on Friday or the Consumer Price Index next week."
Greg Jones, an economist with Briefing.com, a market analysis firm in Menlo Park, Calif., said investors could draw two conclusions about the market outlook if the Fed tightened on March 25: that yields will move higher and that the yield spread between the short end of the market and the long end will narrow. "A typical spread for the two-year note versus the Federal funds rate is 50 basis points when Fed policy is viewed to be on hold indefinitely," he said. "At present the spread is about 82 basis points." (A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.)
"Bulls might argue that this spread already incorporates a 25-basis-point tightening, so the market is well priced for the policy outlook," Mr. Jones added. "However, we can guarantee that if the Fed tightens there will be an immediate consensus that another 25-basis-point tightening will be seen at the May 20 meeting. With the first tightening, the spread will narrow to 57 basis points if the two-year remains steady. If another is expected, the spread will be in the 75-basis-point-to- 100-basis-point range."
Interest rates declined slightly at yesterday's Treasury bill auction, as the results were in line with expectations. The rate for a three-month bill declined four basis points, to 5.06 percent, and the six-month bill fell one basis point, to 5.18 percent, as investors showed a little more demand for the shorter maturity.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	 	Average Price	98.721	97.381	 	Discounted Rate	5.06%	5.18%	 	Coupon Yield	5.20%	5.39%	 	High Price	98.726	97.391	 	Discounted Rate	5.04%	5.16%	 	Coupon Yield	5.18%	5.37%	 	Low Price	98.721	97.381	 	Discounted Rate	5.06%	5.18%	 	Coupon Yield	5.20%	5.39%	 	Accepted at low price	38%	41%	 	Total applied for	$52,643,473	$40,214,577	 	Accepted	$12,068,408	$12,117,497	 	Noncompetitive	$1,379,626	$1,147,402	 	

Both issues are dated Mar. 13, 1997. The three-month bills mature on June 12, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 11, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since November 1996. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BRIEFING.COM (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



241 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Nothing 'Foreign' About Us

BYLINE: By Richard A. Goldstein; Richard A. Goldstein is president and chief executive of Unilever United States Inc. and chairman of the Organization for International Investment.

 BODY:
Reacting to the controversy over fund-raising from so-called foreign sources, the Democratic National Committee has decided to stop accepting political contributions from American subsidiaries of companies based abroad and from groups of their American employees.
The D.N.C.'s new policy is unfair. These companies are important to the economy of the United States. And they are American companies; some, like Unilever, have been doing business here for more than 100 years. Their workers are American citizens, voters and taxpayers. The companies pay American taxes. Their political contributions are just as legal as those of other American companies and their employees. 
 If the D.N.C. is concerned about foreign influence, the law already prohibits political donations from foreign nationals, including foreign parent companies. Federal election rules bar any foreign participation, direct or indirect, in the political action committees of American subsidiaries. And all corporate political contributions must come from revenue generated in the United States.
The fact is, subsidiaries of foreign corporations provide millions of good-paying jobs for American workers. According to recent government figures cited in a new report from the Organization for International Investment, 4.9 million people are employed by the American subsidiaries of foreign companies, an increase of almost 140 percent since 1980. While the number of jobs at all businesses rose by almost 9 percent between 1988 and 1994, employment generated by international investment increased by more than 26 percent in the same period.
Moreover, people who work at the American subsidiaries of companies based elsewhere enjoy higher wages. The average monthly wage at these subsidiaries is nearly 26 percent higher than the average wage at all businesses in the United States.
These companies contribute more than jobs. United States subsidiaries of foreign businesses paid a record-high $8.2 billion in Federal taxes in 1993, according to the latest available figures. Subsidiaries invested $15.6 billion in American research and development in 1994, and put $68 billion into new plants and equipment in the United States. Nearly $14 billion in earnings were reinvested in 1995. And United States subsidiaries gave more than $430 million to charities in 1993, a 22 percent increase over the previous year.
Increasingly, the investors in these companies are Americans. In 1995, American investors held $411 billion in shares of companies based abroad, a 27 percent increase over 1994.
Yet feeling the heat of a political fight, the D.N.C. adopted a policy that implies that United States subsidiaries and their American employees are somehow second-class citizens when it comes to contributing to the Democratic Party. Fortunately, the Democratic Congressional and Senatorial campaign committees have rejected the idea, as has the Republican National Committee.
At a time when politicians and policy makers, experts and economists struggle over how to sustain economic growth and create jobs, the contribution of American subsidiaries of foreign companies is worth remembering.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (57%); UNA (BIT) (57%); UNA (AMS) (57%); UN (NYSE) (57%); ULVR (LSE) (57%); UL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE UNILEVER PLC/NV (57%); AMERICAN RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CORP (53%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

PERSON: GOLDSTEIN, RICHARD A

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



242 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Retailer Imperiled as U.S. Rivals Move In

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 10

 BODY:
The near col lapse of the T. Eaton Company the stately department store chain that filed for protection from creditors last month -- has heightened fears that even Canada's most powerful companies are threatened by aggressive American retailers.
Sales at Eaton's 87 stores have declined about $375 million over the last five years, and the company has lost nearly $190 million since 1988. It owes its 4,000 Canadian suppliers around $115 million, and the banks more than $120 million. (All numbers are in United States dollars.) 
 Just as Eaton's was weakening, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. entered Canada, in two years grabbing a dominant share of the market, and specialty retailers like Home Depot Inc. have also made successful debuts north of the border.
The impact of Eaton's decline is amplified because the company is so important to Canada. Timothy Eaton, the Irish immigrant who founded the company in Toronto 128 years ago, is a towering figure here, so revered that one Protestant church in Toronto bears not a saint's name but his.
Its stores are downtown anchors from coast to coast. The company employs 5,600 full-time and 9,700 part-time workers and had sales last year exceeding $1.18 billion.
According to court papers, Eaton's technically defaulted on Feb. 27, when its $8 million twice-a-week payroll exceeded its credit line.
Two Canadian banks had recently reduced that credit line to $160 million from $200 million because of worries over Eaton's performance.
Justice Lloyd Houlden granted Eaton's protection from creditors until June 30 by applying the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act, which offers many of the same protections as Chapter 11 does in the United States.
Eaton's secured a $410 million short-term loan from GE Capital Canada and has until June to come up with a satisfactory plan for paying its debts, slicing unprofitable divisions and returning to competitiveness.
Not everyone is sure the company will survive. But in court papers, Eaton's gave a hint of its future.
Eaton's "cannot compete with mass merchandisers," said an affidavit presented by John R. Anderson, Eaton's chief financial officer. "Its market niche is in the middle to upper range."
Mr. Anderson said the company would have to get rid of its least profitable stores.
Analysts said that from one-third to one-half of the stores could be liquidated.
Richard D. B. Talbot, managing director of Thomas Consultants International of Markham, thinks the company will probably be sold to or merged with another retailer, most likely one from the United States.
George Eaton, great-grandson of the founder and now the president, encouraged such speculation in his news conference. "We are not looking for a buyer right now," he said, "but if one showed up, I think it would be irresponsible of us not to talk."
Executives from the Hudson's Bay Company, based in Toronto, have recently said the company is looking to acquire other stores, and have expressed interest in both Eaton's and Kmart of Canada.
Many analysts said the best match for Eaton's would be retailers like the J. C. Penney Company or Nordstrom Inc.
Neither company is publicly acknowledging that its expansion plans include either Eaton's or Canada. Duncan Muir, a spokesman for J. C. Penney in Plano, Tex., said its most recent expansions had been in Chile and Mexico.
 Paula Stanley, a spokeswoman for Nordstrom, said the company plans to open 11 stores in the next three years -- in Atlanta, Hawaii and other parts of the United States. It has no outlets outside the country.
"Canada," Ms. Stanley said, "is not currently on our schedule."
Analysts say that like many traditional Canadian businesses, Eaton's was too slow to respond to the encroachment of aggressive retailers like Wal-Mart. The advantages of free trade helped Wal-Mart decide to enter Canada but company executives say the primary reason was the chance to buy 122 Woolco stores from the Woolworth Corporation and gain an immediate presence.
Since 1994, Wal-Mart has converted all the Woolco stores to Wal-Marts and opened 14 stores. It now commands 24 percent of the department store market, twice Eaton's share.
Wal-Mart is playing down its impact. "There is no question that Canada's retail environment has become far more competitive," said Edward Gould, a spokesman for Wal-Mart Canada. "But it's not just Wal-Mart. Price Club, Toys 'R' Us, Home Depot and other category-specific stores also have entered the market."
Eaton's has also been battered by increasing competition from Canadian specialty stores that have cut into its sales in furniture, appliances and housewares. And Canada's tepid economy has made consumers inveterate penny pinchers. Even company executives acknowledge that Eaton's misread the move away from traditional department stores toward discounters.
"Eaton's was already fairly groggy after having gone six or seven rounds with Canadian competitors," said Len Kubas, a Toronto retail analyst. "The Americans came in with a left-right combination and finished the job."
Eaton's is not the only Canadian retailer to have taken blows recently. Hudson's Bay has been under competitive pressure the last few years. It seems to have made a turnaround lately but its discount marketing chain, Zeller's, keeps losing ground to Wal-Mart.
Even Canadian subsidiaries of some American companies are on the ropes. Kmart Canada Ltd. ended 1996 with a loss and recently announced that it would merge many of its Kmart Canada operations into its United States operations and cut 150 jobs in Canada.
But Eaton's difficulties have been startling in part because the privately held, family-run company has for so long been considered the embodiment of Canadian retailing, a company with such prestige that it could arrange, on its name alone, unsecured loans of hundreds of millions of dollars.
For many here, a recent news conference by Mr. Eaton was a sad and almost unimaginable event. At one point he admitted to reporters that his great-grandfather, whose bronze statue is patted for luck by customers in many of the larger stores, "would have been disappointed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The statue of Timothy Eaton, the Irish immigrant who founded the retail company in Toronto 128 years ago, is patted for luck by customers. (The Toronto Sun) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (64%); GEC (LSE) (64%); GE (SWX) (64%); GE (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (91%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: EATON, T, CO; WAL-MART STORES INC; HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: EATON, T, CO; WAL-MART STORES INC; HOME DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SALES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BANKRUPTCIES RETAILERS (92%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (74%); IMMIGRATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



243 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: New Agreement on Scofflaw Diplomats

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration and the State Department announced an agreement yesterday that officials hoped would ease a longstanding irritation for motorists and the police alike: foreign diplomats parking illegally and claiming immunity to the fines.
The agreement would, for the first time, put teeth into the city's efforts to collect thousands of dollars in fines by denying registrations and diplomatic license plates to consulates and missions that fail to pay tickets within a year. 
 The city could also remove diplomatic plates from cars that it tows for safety violations, such as parking in front of a fire hydrant. The plates would be turned over to the State Department and returned to the diplomats only after they had paid the city or successfully contested the ticket.
The plan, to take effect April 1, is similar to one announced during the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins, but then dropped when Rudolph W. Giuliani took office two months later for reasons that officials have disputed. It is similar to an enforcement program that has been used with considerable success in Washington since the beginning of 1995.
 At a news briefing with Ambassador Bill Richardson, the United States Representative to the United Nations, Mr. Giuliani took pains to stress that most members of the diplomatic community -- which contributes roughly $3.2 billion to the city's economy each year -- abide by the city's laws and pay tickets. "There are some that don't," he added. "And this allows us a process to separate one from the other."
But, in remarks that reflected the careful dance city officials have engaged in over the issue, the Mayor also appeared eager to assure New Yorkers that he would no longer stand for diplomats hiding behind immunity. "The agreement helps protect the citizens of New York City against diplomats who choose to vagrantly abuse those privileges," he said.
While reluctant to say it in so many words, Mr. Giuliani conceded that more than $5 million in outstanding fines accumulated last year alone by consulates and missions would probably have to be written off because the program will affect only tickets handed out after April. "There is no way to enforce collection of those tickets," he said, speaking of those from years past. "There was no procedure in place."
Thomas E. Burns, a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, said that in a one-time provision under the new agreement, the city would pursue more than 500 diplomats who have ignored past safety violations, mostly for parking in front of a fire hydrant. If those diplomats get another ticket for the same offense and do not pay it within 30 days, they would be asked to surrender their diplomatic plates until they paid for all the past tickets.
But for less serious tickets over the years, Mr. Burns said, "it's a new program and so it starts with a clean slate."
The city's Department of Finance now drops outstanding fines after they have languished in the system for a year, said Richard LoConte, a spokesman for the department, who added that the total amount owed the city was not calculated because it has become merely a "paper number." To arrive at an estimate, officials use an average of $40 per ticket, multiplied by the number of tickets issued last year: 134,281 or $5,371,240.
After years of mounting unpaid fines, the issue came to the fore again last December, when police officers scuffled with two envoys, one from Russia and the other from Belarus. The officers ticketed their car in front of a fire hydrant and tried to prevent one diplomat from driving because they suspected he was drunk.
The diplomat, whose elbow was dislocated in the fight, later denied being drunk, and accused the officers of ignoring his identification and license plates, and manhandling him. When the envoys' missions demanded apologies from city officials, Mr. Giuliani not only did not offer one, but also accused the diplomats of lying and used the issue to highlight the more than $100,000 in unpaid fines owed by Russia and Belarus.
Sergey Lavrov, the Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the United Nations, said yesterday that the new rules would only make it harder for Russian diplomats to obey the laws because it would probably force many to drive without proper registration in order to do their jobs. Last year, the Russian mission topped the list of parking scofflaws, with 31,388 tickets. Its closest competitors had about a sixth as many tickets.
Although the agreement provides guarantees that diplomats can use two parking spaces in front of their missions and one in front of consulates, and sets up a phone line for diplomats to report cars parked illegally in their spaces, Mr. Lavrov said the agreement "doesn't address the real problems that we experience."
"I'm not in favor of special privileges," Mr. Lavrov said. "But sometimes your job involves special treatment, if you will." He pointed out that journalists and many elected and appointed officials have reserved parking.
"Two parking paces per mission is not nearly enough for us," he said. At the American Embassy in Moscow, Americans can park legally around the block, he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo/Chart: "Parking Violations" lists diplomatic missions receiving the most parking tickets in 1996. (Source: City Department of Finance)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FINES (PENALTIES); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY; PARKING FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PARKING OFFENSES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); IMMUNITY (78%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (77%); CITIES (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); KENNEDY, RANDY RUDY GIULIANI (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



244 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Bosnian Serb Area Destitute and Vulnerable

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: LUKAVICA, Bosnia and Herzegovina, March 7

 BODY:
The collection of warehouses that make up a sprawling factory less than a mile from the Bosnian capital stand as a bleak harbinger of the Bosnian Serbs' future.
The Famos factory, once owned by the Yugoslav Government, employed 3,500 people making truck and bus engines and car parts before the Bosnian war began five years ago. 
 At the end of the war in 1995 this factory was seen by the Bosnian Serbs as the prize that would help regenerate their economy. It was to be the industrial centerpiece around which they would build a new Serbian-controlled capital skirting the edges of the existing Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, which is under the control of the Muslim-led Bosnian Government.
The factory had been in the Sarajevo suburb of Ilidza, but its 2,000 machines were dismantled and moved to Lukavica last year, to an area controlled by the Bosnian Serbs. The move took place before Ilidza was turned over to the Government as part of the peace agreement reached in late 1995 in Dayton, Ohio.
Under the agreement, Bosnia was to include two distinct political entities -- one controlled by a coalition of Muslims and Croats and the other by Serbs, their self-styled Republic of Srpska -- with a national structure to coordinate the two.
But the Bosnian Serb entity has refused to honor many of the Dayton terms. As a result, it has been cut off from international aid and remains isolated. The steady political and economic decline of Srpska, along with the refusal to honor the Dayton agreement, has left many Western diplomats warning that the enclave will pose an easy, and increasingly tempting target, to the Bosnian Muslim army once NATO peacekeepers leave next year, although such an attack would set off another war.
The failure of the Famos factory, owned by the Bosnian Serb leadership, is one of the most visible symbols of the looming breakdown of its political entity. In the last year the factory has produced only 20 engines and 50 clutches, which were sold to the state-run bus company in neighboring Serbia. The Bosnian Serbs have been unable to sign any contracts with foreign companies or to lure outside investment.
The rest of the Bosnian Serb structure is faring no better. Its military is still largely run by Gen. Ratko Mladic, who has been indicted by the United Nations commission at The Hague for war crimes, although he was publicly removed from his position last year. But the Bosnian Serb army, no longer financed by Serbia, has dwindled from 40,000 to about 12,000 soldiers. Thousands of demobilized soldiers are unable to support themselves, and much of the military's equipment is rusting from lack of maintenance and spare parts.
Although Radovan Karadzic, the former leader who has also been indicted for war crimes, was forced to resign under international pressure, he still wields enormous influence. And the current political leadership is openly feuding. Last month, citing "security concerns," Biljana Plavsic, the Bosnian Serbs' largely ceremonial President, refused to travel from her office in the northwestern city of Banja Luka to Pale, the wartime Serb stronghold near Sarajevo, to meet with other Bosnian Serb leaders and Assistant Secretary of State John Kornblum.
The areas of Bosnia controlled by the Serbs have frequent power outages, the hospitals lack medicine and schools are often without books.
There has also been a huge exodus, to Serbia and neighboring European nations, especially by the young, professionals and skilled labor. Like Famos, most factories sit nearly idle. The unemployment rate is 90 percent. Of the 800,000 Bosnian Serbs, 300,000 were displaced from their homes by the war.
The implications of a collapse of the Bosnian Serb entity are enormous. Under the Dayton agreement, tens of thousands of Muslims displaced from their homes by the Serbs have a right to return home. In fact, the Serbs have allowed none to go back.
NATO strategists say that the Bosnian Government increasingly sees the Serb zone as an easy military objective. These commanders say that if the peacekeeping forces withdraw it will be difficult to hold the Muslim-led Government back.
"At least this war would probably be swift," said a senior Western diplomat. "And frankly there would be little sympathy for the Bosnian Serbs given their role in the war, their refusal to cooperate with the joint Government institutions and their refusal to let displaced people go home. War, in fact, might be the best solution."
But that presupposes that Serbia would not intervene, as it did in the last war. The despair and malaise that now infect the areas of Bosnia controlled by the Serbs are palpable in nearly every forlorn, shabby village. On a recent day, Milena Jevric, nearly toothless and clutching a plastic container filled with her daily soup ration, walked in shoes several sizes too large up a muddy road in the village of Brezovice, about 20 miles northeast of Pale.
A widow, she owned a small shop in a Sarajevo suburb before it was turned over to the Muslim-led Government last year. Everyone on her street fled, fearful of Muslim reprisals, and she followed.
Mrs. Jevric now lives with her brother in the basement of an unfinished structure. She sleeps on a dirt floor and has no stove, heat or running water.
"As a girl I lived like this, after the Second World War -- and as an old woman I live like this again," she said. "We have no more savings. We are destitute. Most of the young people are leaving. The country is dying. I just struggle to eat."
The Bosnian Serb leadership in Pale, in a move to establish a link with Serbia, signed an agreement with the Serbian Government in Belgrade that included a promise of military cooperation.
The agreement, which Muslim leaders and Western diplomats said violated the Dayton accords, also spelled out cooperation in areas such as foreign trade, border traffic, citizenship and customs.
But while the economic cooperation outlined in the agreement is mostly smoke and mirrors, especially given the dismal state of the economy in Serbia, it is a huge blow for the joint Bosnian Government.
It defiantly resurrects the apparent effort by President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia to integrate the Bosnian Serb enclave into Serbia, which set off the Bosnian war in the spring of 1992.
The Bosnian Serb leadership, however, defends the agreement. "We have bonded ourselves to Belgrade with this agreement," said Momcilo Krajisnik, the Bosnian Serb member of the tripartite Presidency. "We are Serbs and we will never be ruled by the Muslims."
The continued presence in the center of power of hard-liners like Dr. Karadzic and his close ally Mr. Krajisnik bode ill for any real cooperation with the Bosnian Muslims and Croats.
The resolve of the Bosnian Serbs to retain the ethnic exclusivity of their enclave, where tens of thousands of Muslims died in the most brutal ethnic violence of the war, was driven home last Sunday. A mob of about 150 Serbs burned 11 prefabricated homes belonging to Muslims trying to resettle their old village in Serbian-held territory.
"Most of my friends have left the Republic of Srpska," said Bojan Brckalo, 19, as he sat with two friends recently in a Pale coffee shop. "But this does not mean that those of us who remain will allow the Muslims to seize our state. If the Muslims try to enter we will fight. This is Serb land."

GRAPHIC: Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing the location of Lukavica: A new automotive factory in Lukavica is virtually idle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (87%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (87%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; LUKAVICA (BOSNIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (87%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CROATIA (79%); OHIO, USA (87%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); TRENDS (78%); WAR CRIMES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RELIGION (69%); POLITICS (66%); INDICTMENTS (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



245 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Newmont Wins Santa Fe, With Further Gold Deals Expected

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Outbidding the rival Homestake Mining Company, the Newmont Mining Corporation announced an agreement yesterday to acquire the Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation for $2.43 billion in stock, securing a position as the top gold-mining company in North America.
But few analysts expect the dust to settle in this rapidly consolidating industry before another takeover effort is begun, possibly for the Battle Mountain Gold Company in Houston, or the Getchell Gold Corporation in Englewood, Colo. Barrick Gold, for one, is hunting for acquisitions and may even consider breaking up the Newmont-Santa Fe combination, said Todd A. Hinrichs, an analyst with Everen Securities. 
 "We're seeing consolidation across the gold-mining industry," Mr. Hinrichs said. "It's a fight among the large producers to maintain their growth potential and their position at the top of the heap."
The merger of Newmont and Santa Fe, a 1994 spinoff from the Santa Fe Pacific Rail Corporation, would create a mining company with estimated gold production in 1998 of 4 million ounces and 55 million ounces of proven reserves, according to the company. The combined company would overtake Barrick as the largest North American gold miner.
The winning bid by Newmont came 94 days after it started its takeover effort and 91 days after Santa Fe announced a friendly merger with Homestake. Under the merger agreement, each Santa Fe share will be exchanged for 0.43 share of Newmont common stock, a 30 percent increase since the bidding battle started in December. Based on Newmont's closing price of $43 yesterday, the deal is valued at $18.49 a share, or $2.43 billion. The transaction would be on a tax-free, pooling-of-interests basis.
The prize in the contest was Santa Fe's enormous land holdings in Nevada, which sit next to Newmont's own mining operations.
"It was a good match-up from Day 1," said Lawrence Glaser, analyst with Muzinich & Company. "There's more synergies between Newmont and Santa Fe than there were between Homestake and Santa Fe."
The two companies own complementary technologies that would make it less expensive to mine gold. Newmont said it expected to generate savings of $70 million to $80 million, nearly double the amount first identified in December, through cuts of overlapping staff, purchasing economies and new technology.
But the victory by Newmont comes with a price and may put pressure on it to increase the number of layoffs. The transaction will be dilutive, or break-even, in the first year, although the company said the combination would add 11 percent to earnings in 1998 at current gold prices. As a result, Santa Fe shares gained 50 cents yesterday. to close at $17.875, while Newmont Mining closed at $43, down $1.125. Homestake, which closed at $16, up $1, conceded defeat and collected a $65 million breakup fee from Santa Fe.
"We told them we were not willing to pay any more," Jack Thompson, president of Homestake, said. "If you pay too much, it negates the value of a combination."
If the deal is approved by shareholders, Santa Fe would close its headquarters in Albuquerque, N.M. But it is unclear what would happen to Patrick M. James, Santa Fe's chairman, who would have become president and chief operating officer of the Homestake combination. Newmont declined to comment on Mr. James's future role other than to say the company was hiring a management consulting firm to assist in selecting "the best of the best" of the two companies. Five directors of Santa Fe will join the Newmont board.
The struggle to gain size and increase earnings in the gold industry is not over. Barrick is the "big barracuda" in the mining industry at this point, according to analysts, and the company most likely to make the next acquisition. At the time the Santa Fe bidding war began, Barrick seemed to have outmaneuvered two rivals, Placer Dome Inc. and Freeport-McMoran Copper and Gold, in gaining control of the giant Busang discovery in Indonesia. But the Indonesian Government approved a plan last month that gave Freeport-McMoran a major interest in Busang, leaving Barrick empty-handed. In addition, Santa Fe is now $65 million richer, and it did not rule out making an acquisition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (94%); ABX (NYSE) (94%); NEM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (94%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (94%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (72%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SANTA FE PACIFIC GOLD CORP; NEWMONT MINING CORP; HOMESTAKE MINING CO SANTA FE PACIFIC GOLD CORP (94%); BARRICK GOLD CORP (94%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (92%); GETCHELL GOLD CORP (72%); BATTLE MOUNTAIN GOLD CO (72%); MUZINICH & CO INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANTA FE PACIFIC GOLD CORP; NEWMONT MINING CORP; HOMESTAKE MINING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; GOLD; MINES AND MINING; INDUSTRY PROFILES GOLD MINING (93%); MINES & MINING (91%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



246 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Hanoi Agrees to Pay Saigon's Debts to U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
The Vietnamese Government, increasingly anxious to strike a broad trade accord with Washington, has agreed to repay to the United States millions of dollars in debts incurred by the former South Vietnam for roads, power stations and grain shipments during the Vietnam War, Administration officials said today.
The agreement, struck on Saturday in Hanoi, ends several years of negotiations with Vietnam over its assumption of debts, now worth about $140 million, incurred by the Saigon Government before it fell to North Vietnamese forces in 1975. 
 Many of those debts were incurred to bolster the South's war effort, including the country's main railroad and water system, and a major power plant for Saigon, the former South Vietnamese capital, now called Ho Chi Minh City.
But the repayment does not include the vast sums -- roughly estimated at $1 billion -- in direct military assistance that Washington transferred to the South during the war. In fact, in the negotiations conducted by Treasury and State Department officials, Vietnam balked at repaying $12 million in outstanding loans for the "Food for Peace" program, arguing that through a series of complex transactions the United States used money that was ostensibly earmarked for grain purchases to help finance the war.
Today Administration officials said that the accord was a sign of how far the dialogue between the United States and Vietnam has moved beyond the single issue of identifying the remains of prisoners of war, and toward questions of how the Communist Government will be integrated in the world economy.
"The Vietnamese leaders have a clear economic agenda," one senior Administration official said today. "And they knew that resolving this debt issue was one of the hurdles they had to get past before they get the trading rights they want."
Under the terms of the accord, Vietnam will have 20 years to pay back the loans that were issued to the South.
The Vietnamese were also motivated by the impending visit of Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who is scheduled to travel to Vietnam in early April.
Since President Clinton normalized relations with Hanoi in July 1995, the two countries have been negotiating over the many ways in which the Vietnamese economy must change before the Administration is ready to grant most-favored-nation trading status to Hanoi. Most-favored nations are granted the ordinary trading rights -- including low tariffs on imported goods -- that the United States gives to almost all its trading partners.
That issue was high on the agenda when Warren Christopher, then Secretary of State, visited Vietnam in August 1995 to raise the American flag at a new embassy in Hanoi. Mr. Christopher was looking to celebrate the end of a raw chapter in American history; the Vietnamese were more interested in talking to members of his delegation about trade status, getting the country into the World Trade Organization, and economic reform issues.
But the talks since then have been painfully slow. Vietnam has many of the same trade barriers that American officials complain about in China: foreigners are not permitted to trade directly with customers in Vietnam (though many strike deals on the side); the country maintains strict import quotas and licensing requirements for companies that want to trade there, and it prohibits many kinds of foreign investment. "There is a long list of specific regulations and policies which make doing business difficult in Vietnam," Joan E. Spero said in a speech last year, when she was serving as Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
Like China, Vietnam has been hesitant to make the kinds of concessions that would open its state-dominated firms to foreign competition. But over the last several months, it has been working with the United States to draft the specific language of a trade accord, one of the prerequisites for most-favored-nation status. Haggling over the wording of that accord, one official said today, "could take up much of the rest of the year."
Before most-favored-nation status could be granted, President Clinton would also have to waive a legal provision, called the Jackson-Vanik Amendment, that concerns freedom of emigration. A similar waiver concerning China sets off an annual human rights debate in Congress, and the arguments would probably be equally heated in Vietnam's case.
The first payment is due next month, shortly after Mr. Rubin's visit to Hanoi, which comes at a time when American companies are exploring large investments in Vietnam, though they have been hesitant because of many of the country's trading barriers. But Conoco Inc. is reportedly nearing an agreement to win rights to one of Vietnam's most promising offshore oil sites, as part of a consortium with Vietnam's state-owned oil company and South Korean and French interests.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (95%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); PRISONERS OF WAR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (95%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); HISTORY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



247 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: The New Horizon for Arms Cuts

 BODY:
President Clinton's meeting with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia in Helsinki later this month is a crucial opportunity to revive the lost momentum of nuclear weapons reduction. A welcome new bargaining decision recently announced by the Administration should make it easier to do so.
Washington, essentially, has agreed to look ahead to the terms of the next arms reduction treaty to insure that the last one is belatedly approved by Russia and put into force. The proposal, if accepted by Moscow, can lead to significant cuts in the nuclear arsenals of both countries. 
 The last treaty reducing the number of nuclear weapons was signed during the Bush Administration but remains unratified by the Russian parliament. It would reduce the level of long-range nuclear warheads to between 3,000 and 3,500 for each side, one-third the level of a decade ago. The accord would also outlaw land-based multiple warhead missiles, which are particularly dangerous because they are considered the most tempting targets in a nuclear crisis.
Since Russia has more of these megaweapons than the United States, the destruction of them would leave Moscow well below the overall warhead ceiling. To maintain nuclear equality with the United States, Russia might feel compelled to initiate an expensive program of building single warhead missiles. By proposing to begin negotiations at once on a new arms reduction treaty, with ceilings of 2,000 to 2,500 long-range warheads for each side, the Administration offers a good way around this problem. Levels that low would mean no new Russian missiles would have to be built. Washington should go even further by offering to sign a new agreement if doing so would assure Russian ratification of the last one. The Bush Administration set an appropriate precedent by signing the last treaty before the previous one was ratified.
The missile-building issue is not the only problem holding up Russian ratification. The collapse of Moscow's conventional forces has made many Russian legislators more reluctant to reduce nuclear weapons. Western plans to expand NATO closer to Russia's borders and America's programs to develop ballistic missile defense systems also increase Moscow's feelings of insecurity. But in reality Russia's security will be strengthened by continued nuclear missile reductions and its economy will be spared a taxing drain.
American and European security will benefit as well. The future dangers that inspire Washington's plans for ballistic missile defense and NATO expansion are hypothetical. No rogue regime is near developing reliable long-range missiles. Russia's weakened and demoralized land armies will not threaten central and eastern Europe anytime soon. But the thousands of nuclear warheads still sitting atop Russia's long-range missiles could once again become a danger to the American people if a less responsible Russian government comes to power.
The faster Washington and Moscow can move ahead with actual reductions in nuclear arms, the safer both countries will be. Working with the new American proposal, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin have a chance to make real progress in Helsinki.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; EDITORIALS; TREATIES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



248 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Niagara Mohawk to Buy Out Costly Power Contracts
Seeking to avert collapse, Niagara Mohawk Power, which serves 1.5 million customers in upstate New York, agreed to a $4 billion buyout of long-term contracts with most of its independent power producers.
Niagara Mohawk is the first utility to rid itself of such contracts in one move. The contracts, dating from the late 1980's and early 1990's, have forced utilities in New York State to pay as much as triple the wholesale power price and raised consumers' costs. [Page B8.]
 
Stocks Soar, Despite Greenspan
Stock prices soared, with technology issues rebounding from recent losses and blue chips climbing, as cash continued flowing into equities, despite Alan Greenspan's warnings of irrational exuberance in the market. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 78.50 points to close at a record 7,079.39, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq 100 index gained 13.81 points to close at 854.84. [D8.] 

Treasury security prices slipped with investors hesitant to take positions ahead of this week's economic reports, lest they lead to higher rates. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was unchanged at 6.81 percent. [D20.]
 
Nationwide Insurance Settles Suit
Nationwide Insurance, the country's fifth-largest insurer, agreed to invest $13 million in minority communities and to end a series of practices that a Justice Department suit said discriminated against blacks and poor people and furthered the deterioration of inner-city neighborhoods. Some contended the settlement did not go far enough. [D2.]
 
G.E. in $875 Million Acquisitions
General Electric agreed to buy Greenwich Air Services and UNC Inc. for $875 million in cash and stock. Analysts said the move would effectively double G.E.'s share of the $28 billion market for servicing jet engines. [D3.]
 
Japan Pushes Ahead With Digital TV
Seeking to catch up to the United States and Europe, the Japanese Government announced that it would hasten the introduction of digital television by years, using a superior transmission system. [D6.]
 
G.M. Streamlines Its Management
General Motors moved to streamline its sprawling operations, putting all North American car making under a single executive, Donald E. Hackworth. Richard G. LeFauve, who built its Saturn division, is to develop companywide management and engineering practices. [D4.]
 
Dean Witter and Morgan Advance
Dean Witter, Discover and Morgan Stanley have resolved a thorny issue in their pending merger, agreeing to keep Morgan Stanley's general counsel, Jonathan M. Clark. [D8.]
 
Merrill Officer's Pay Up 40%
Daniel P. Tully, Merrill Lynch's top officer, received a 40 percent raise last year. His compensation exceeded $10 million. [D4.]
 
Putting Holders Ahead of Lawyers
In line with the nation's new securities law, a new settlement in a class action involving California Micro Devices provides much more for holders than the original settlement, in part by bringing in more defendants, including its former auditors, Coopers & Lybrand.
Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
 
Six Companies Shun Nomura
At least six Japanese asset management companies suspended business with Nomura Securities because of its announcement last week that two of its directors had made unauthorized stock trades. [D6.]
 
Thailand Plans Financial Rescue
The Thai Cabinet is to vote today on a Government plan to end the country's financial turmoil by setting up a company to lend $3.86 billion to property developers. [D6.]
 
Vietnam Agrees to Repay Debt
The Vietnamese Government, increasingly eager to strike a broad trade accord with the United States, agreed to repay millions of dollars in debts incurred by the former South Vietnam during the Vietnam War. [A8.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,079.39, up 78.50
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.81%, Unchanged
The Dollar -- 121.63 yen, down 0.19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (81%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (59%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GE AVIATION (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (81%); NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (59%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GREENWICH AIR SERVICES INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MERGERS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BONDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INSURANCE (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); LAWYERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); CLASS ACTIONS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (57%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



249 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Vietnam Agrees to Repay Millions in Debt to U.S.
Vietnam agreed to repay millions of dollars to the United States in debts incurred by the former South Vietnamese Government for roads, power stations and grain shipments during the Vietnam War. The agreement showed that dialogue between the United States and Vietnam had moved beyond prisoners of war toward Vietnam's integration into the world economy. A8 

European Leaders Snub Turkey
At a meeting in Brussels, a group of influential European political leaders said Turkey should not be considered for membership in the European Union. Opponents of Turkish membership said Turkey was too large and undeveloped and criticized its human rights record. Tansu Ciller, Turkey's foreign minister, summoned European diplomats to complain. A11
 
Israeli Leader Faces Challenges
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu left Israel for a two-day visit to Russia. He left behind crises that included the Palestinians' unexpected refusal to accept Israel's offer to withdraw from an additional 9.1 percent of the West Bank and an effort in Parliament to lower the number of votes needed to dismiss a prime minister. A6
 
President Clinton met in Washington with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. At a news conference, Mr. Clinton defended the American veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution that condemned Israel's plan to build Jewish housing in East Jerusalem. A6
 
German Miners Protest Cuts
Angry German coal miners besieged political party offices in Bonn for several hours to register opposition to proposed cuts in coal industry subsidies. The demonstrations threw light not only on the heavy state padding in Germany's economy but also on the deep opposition officials face as they try to reduce it. A11
 
Uganda Seeks Famine Relief
Uganda issued an urgent call for international relief to avert a famine in its drought-hit eastern region that would affect 2.1 million people. An agriculture official in the northern town of Kumi said people in eight of the 18 sub-counties in his district were on the brink of starvation. In the hardest hit areas, people eat just three times a week. Uganda's weather office said rains expected in March were unlikely to arrive until April. (Reuters)
 
Taiwanese Airliner Hijacked
An unemployed journalist doused himself with gasoline in a Taiwanese airliner and hijacked it to China, where he requested political asylum, complaining of repression at home. It was the latest of 13 Taiwan Strait hijackings in the 1990's, but the first in which a plane was forced to fly to the Chinese mainland rather than away from it. The suspect, Liu Shan-chung, 45, was arrested moments after the plane touched down at China's southeastern port of Xiamen.
 (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A14-21
 
Clinton and F.B.I. Dispute Handling of China Warning
President Clinton said he had not been told that the F.B.I. had warned two officials of the National Security Council that China might be trying to funnel money into Congressional campaigns. He said the F.B.I. had told the two officials not to pass the word on. The F.B.I. denied that. A1
 
Memos Show Use of Database
White House memos turned over to Congress show that a computer database, paid for with Government money, was used for campaign purposes. A Republican member of Congress said the memos, written by Marsha Scott, then a deputy assistant to the President, described the database as an element of a White House plan to prepare at the end of 1994 for a new campaign. A21
 
Los Angeles Ousts Police Chief
The Los Angeles Police Commission refused to give Chief Willie L. Williams a contract to lead the force for five more years because of what it called a failure to remold the 12,000-member department after the Rodney King beating. The decision seemed certain to set off a debate because of the political and racial issues involved. A14
 
Citadel Disciplines Cadets
The Citadel dismissed one male cadet and disciplined nine others for their roles in the harassment of two female cadets who dropped out of the state-supported military college after the first semester. A15
 
Senior Democrat to Retire
Senator Wendell H. Ford, Democrat of Kentucky, said he would not seek re-election in 1998 because he wanted to spend more time with his family. "I'll finally have the time to dote on them and spoil them as a granddad is supposed to do," he said. First elected in 1974, Mr. Ford, 72, is Kentucky's longest-serving Senator and as minority whip is the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate. (AP)
 
Also retiring after four terms is Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican who has served longer than any other governor of that state. (AP)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Dispute Over a Look Led to Bayonne Killing
A 20-year-old man was arrested in the fatal stabbing of a Bayonne High School student. The police said the stabbing occurred after the suspect and a friend of the victim began fighting over the way they had looked at each other. B1
 
Deal on Diplomatic Parking
The State Department and New York City agreed on a plan to give the city more leverage to enforce parking laws against diplomats. B3
 
Sergeants Attack Roadblocks
The head of the New York City police sergeants' union said he would ask a judge to halt the use of roadblocks. He charged that the roadblocks were just a tool to get officers to write more traffic tickets and bring money in for the city. B3
 
3 Admit Selling Spy Equipment
Three top executives at a company that sold state-of-the-art surveillance equipment pleaded guilty to smuggling and selling illegal wiretapping devices. The devices included powerful microphones and transmitters hidden inside working calculators, pens and telephone jacks. B3
 
Senate Passes Abortion Bill
The New York Senate passed a bill to ban a type of late-term abortion that is called "partial birth" by its opponents. The bill is expected to die in the Assembly. B4
 
Microscope Yields a Top Prize
The top prize in the Westinghouse Science Talent Search went to Adam Ezra Cohen, a 17-year-old from the Upper East Side. He fashioned Lego, modeling clay and a pile of electronic circuits into a sophisticated microscope suspended from his bedroom ceiling by bungee cords. B1
 
SPORTS B10-15
 
Close Vote Looms on Replays
N.F.L. owners appeared closely split on a proposal to restore the use of instant replay. A vote on the idea is scheduled for today. B15
 
SCIENCE TIMES C1-11
 
Possible Flaw in Parasites
A huge group of parasites, including those that cause malaria and toxoplasmosis, contain nonworking versions of the structures that plants and green algae use to photosynthesize, researchers said. This suggests the possibility that herbicides could be used against those parasites, something that will need to be investigated. C3
 
ARTS C13-18
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
U.S. Seeks to Stop Merger
The Federal Trade Commission voted to try to keep Staples Inc. from buying Office Depot, saying the merger would violate antitrust laws. Company executives and officials pointed out that the combined company would control at most 6 percent of the office-supply market. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D23
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Untangling the Chinese puzzle, new horizon for arms cuts, medical privacy.
 
Column: Russell Baker.
 
Chronicle B20
 
Chess C5
 
Crossword C17
 
Weather C18

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (94%); GERMANY (94%); TURKEY (94%); UGANDA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (94%); GERMANY (94%); TURKEY (94%); UGANDA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FAMINE (89%); HIJACKING (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); STARVATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); VETO (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POWER PLANTS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); MINE WORKERS (69%); MINES & MINING (69%); COAL MINING (69%); DROUGHT (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); AIRLINES (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (64%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (63%); ARRESTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (53%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



250 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Hanoi Agrees to Pay Saigon's Debt to U.S.

 BODY:
Vietnam has agreed to pay to the United States millions of dollars in debts incurred by the former South Vietnam for roads, power stations and grain shipments during the Vietnam War, Administration officials said yesterday.
The Vietnamese Government is increasingly anxious to strike a trade agreement with the United States. Administration officials said the accord was a sign of how far the dialogue between the United States and Vietnam has moved beyond identifying the remains of prisoners of war and toward questions of how the Communist Government will be integrated in the world economy. 
 The agreement ends several years of negotiations with Vietnam over debts, now worth about $140 million, incurred by the Saigon Government before it fell to North Vietnamese forces in 1975. But the repayment does not include vast sums in direct military assistance to the South.
Article, page A8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (93%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); PRISONERS OF WAR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (93%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VIETNAM WAR (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



251 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: China Doesn't Deserve Trade Club Membership

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Asia's Giant, After Detours, Takes Familiar Growth Path" (front page, March 4), on China's economic growth strategy, raises an interesting irony for students of Marxist economics. The world's sole Communist superpower is now the number one exporter of surplus, low-cost wage labor to the capitalist system, thereby postponing the inevitable collapse of the capitalist system that Marx prophesied. It gives new credence to the adage that if you live long enough, strange things occur.
 
MICHAEL BANKS
Boulder, Colo., March 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BANKS, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



252 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Utility Seeks to End Costly Pacts With Power Suppliers

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
In an effort to fend off financial collapse, the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation said yesterday that it had agreed to spend about $4 billion to buy out costly long-term contracts with most of its independent power producers.
The buyout by Niagara Mohawk, which has 1.5 million customers in upstate New York, is the first time that a utility has sought to rid itself of such contracts in one swoop. 
 The contracts, dating from the late 1980's and early 1990's, have forced Niagara Mohawk and other utilities in New York State to pay as much as triple the wholesale price for power and have been a major reason that state residents pay some of the highest rates in the country. They have also complicated the state's efforts to deregulate the utility industry and eventually allow customers choice.
"They had to resolve this in order to save the company," Barry Abramson, the utility analyst for Prudential Securities, said. "The alternative was either immediate bankruptcy or a slow death from these contracts."
The hope is that the agreement will allow the utility to lower rates eventually and make it competitive when the State Public Service Commission deregulates the state's utilities, possibly beginning in early 1998.
The agreement could also serve as a model for other utilities, like the Consolidated Edison Company, which have been buying their way out of such high-cost contracts, but in a much more gradual way.
William E. Davis, the chairman and chief executive of Niagara Mohawk, said that if the agreement was approved by stockholders and state regulators, the company would save about $5 billion over the next 15 years. "This will create a base from which the company can improve its financial performance going forward, as opposed to continuing to decline toward bankruptcy," he said.
Under the agreement, the utility would end or restructure 44 long-term power contracts with 19 independent power producers. Some of those contracts have 30 years to run.
The utility is paying 6 to 10 cents per kilowatt-hour to buy power under the contracts, when it could buy power for 2 to 3 cents per kilowatt-hour in the wholesale market. It estimated that this year its customers would pay about $600 million more than the wholesale cost or the cost of electricity generated by the utility.
As part of the buyout, Niagara Mohawk would pay $400 million in cash, take on $3.2 billion in debt and issue 46 million shares of stock to the independent power producers. The new shares would be about 25 percent of the company's outstanding common stock. They would also make the independent power producers major shareholders and give them an incentive to look out for Niagara Mohawk's financial health.
Carol Murphy, the director of the Independent Power Producers of New York, an industry trade group, said many of its members decided to make a settlement because they realized they would suffer if the utility were forced into bankruptcy.
"This way," she said, "they can get their debt paid off and be in a much better position to sell power" once deregulation occurs.
For current shareholders, however, the agreement would dilute the value of their stock. Many stockholders are retired people who bought the stock because it was thought to be less volatile than other stocks and paid good dividends. But because of the loss of some of its major industrial customers, Niagara Mohawk suspended paying dividends in January 1996.
"There is not much there for the shareholders, " Penelope Adelmann, the utility analyst for Gruntal & Company, said. She added that earnings would continue to be under pressure, and that the costly settlement would make it difficult for the utility to resume dividend payments.
Niagara Mohawk's stock was battered yesterday in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $9.375, down 87.5 cents.
New York State forced many of the utilities into the high-cost, long-term contracts under a 1978 Federal law that sought to encourage private investors to build small, efficient plants to reduce demand for oil to generate power. In the 1980's, regulators feared that demand for electricity would outrun supply and that its cost would soar. Instead, there is now a surplus of low-cost power.
Mr. Davis, Niagara Mohawk's chairman, said some of the initial savings from the agreement would be passed on to larger industrial customers in lower rates, while smaller commercial customers and residential users would see some modest rate cuts.
Larger customers would get bigger savings because the utility has lost some industrial customers who have built their own small generating plants or have been able to make alternative deals with low-cost competitors. This has put the utility, which serves 1.5 million customers, in a financial squeeze.
The company has proposed a radical restructuring, under which its nuclear plants at Nine Mile Point on Lake Ontario would be taken over or refinanced by New York State in order to cut the utility's costs.

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Unplugging Contrcats for Power" shows Niagara Mohawks's service area and locations of major operating plants owned and under contract by Niagara Mohawk. (Source: Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (94%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMMON STOCK (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS WILLIAM E DAVIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



253 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Unlikely to Be Issue at Hearing on Nominee

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10

 BODY:
Senate hearings on Anthony Lake's nomination as Director of Central Intelligence, set to start on Tuesday, might become a debate over campaign financing and foreign policy failings instead of a discussion of the future of United States intelligence.
The good news for Mr. Lake, President Clinton's national security adviser from 1993 through 1996, is that he will finally have a hearing, and that he probably has the votes for confirmation. 
 The bad news is not so different from the good news. The hearing is likely to be politically brutal, and Mr. Lake will probably be bloodied when it is done. His margin of victory in confirmation might be the narrowest ever accorded a Director of Central Intelligence.
His prize will be the Central Intelligence Agency -- now suffering self-inflicted wounds from two treasonous officers, botched economic espionage operations against allies and an abiding midlife crisis as its 50th birthday approaches -- and the rest of the intelligence services.
What might be lost in the political scuffle are serious questions and answers about where the $30-billion-a-year intelligence establishment is headed.
On the eve of the hearings, which are scheduled to run for six days this week and next, Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican who heads the Intelligence Committee, is still looking for a show-stopping allegation that could cripple or kill the nomination.
Mr. Shelby still wants the White House to hand over raw files from the Federal Bureau of Investigation on Mr. Lake. Several conservative Republicans have warned that they might block the nomination in the full Senate unless the White House lets them see the reports. Mr. Shelby has warned that Mr. Lake could face "a firestorm" over the files on the Senate floor.
Behind closed doors, the Intelligence Committee staff, at Mr. Shelby's direction, has been researching some major foreign policy issues under Mr. Lake's control. These include what Mr. Lake knew about Chinese missile sales to Pakistan, his failure to tell Congress about President Clinton's tacit approval of Iran's arms shipments to Bosnia's Muslims in 1994, and whether he played down human rights abuses in Haiti under the government the White House helped install in 1994.
But publicly, Mr. Shelby has been questioning Mr. Lake's ethics and integrity. By postponing the hearings twice, he has held Mr. Lake at arm's length with one hand while rhetorically pummeling him with the other. The Senator's latest set of questions -- what role if any Mr. Lake and his National Security Council staff played in campaign fund-raising -- now appear likely to dominate the hearings.
"He's going to try and use Tony to get to the President on fund-raising," an Administration official said.
Mr. Shelby said on the Senate floor last week that he wanted to examine "the extent to which Mr. Lake knew of the ties the White House was building with questionable fund-raisers and foreign contributors and what effect this might have had on Administration foreign policy."
The intelligence committee's staff questioned four members of the National Security Council staff today about their work for Mr. Lake -- and their contacts with or knowledge of Asian fund-raisers. Those questioned included Sandra Kristoff, the head of the council's Asia directorate, and Robert Suettinger, a China expert.
Ms. Kristoff had meetings with Pauline Kanchanalak, a Thai businesswoman whose $253,000 in contributions to the Democratic Party were returned and are the subject of a Federal investigation. Mr. Suettinger wrote a memorandum last year describing Johnny Chung, another Democratic Party fund-raiser under investigation, as a "hustler."
But barring some devastating disclosure or some insurmountable procedural hurdle erected by Mr. Lake's opponents in the Senate, support from moderate Republicans is likely to put Mr. Lake at the helm of United States intelligence.
Some of the 10 Republicans on the Senate Intelligence Committee are likely to spend a good deal of time at the hearing attacking Mr. Lake politically, professionally and personally. The nine Democrats, led by the vice chairman, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, will spend much of their time defending him on those three fronts.
Two moderate Republicans on the committee -- Senators Richard G. Lugar of Indiana and John H. Chafee of Rhode Island -- are likely to provide a margin of victory for Mr. Lake. They will be bolstered by the committee's former vice chairman, Warren B. Rudman, a former Republican senator from New Hampshire, who said in an interview that he planned to endorse Mr. Lake before the committee on Tuesday.
"I've had extensive dealings with Lake," said Mr. Rudman, who has served as the acting chairman of President Clinton's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. "I have very high regard for him. I think he's first rate."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); TREASON (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (72%); ARMS TRADE (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (61%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; LAKE, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



254 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 11, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: The Next Course for the Restaurateur;
What's Better Than a Successful Restaurant? Two or Three or Four

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
Jean-Georges Vongerichten, one of New York's better-known chefs and restaurateurs, is building a collection of restaurants the way a baseball owner puts together a team of pitchers -- each one has distinctively different qualities, all designed to give the customer, and the competition, a little something different each day of the week.
Later this month, Mr. Vongerichten, who is 39 and a native of France, will open his fourth restaurant, Jean-Georges, inside the new Trump International Hotel at Columbus Circle. 
 "This one is to go after the high-end customer, more precision cooking," he said. "Each one will have a different appeal. The people who go to one will go to another later in the week. I don't want them to go to someone else. It's competition. You create three or four concepts, so they'll go to each one."
In a city where restaurant owners have often enjoyed success and fame by focusing all of their attention on a single restaurant, about a dozen owners are building groups of one-of-a-kind, high-concept restaurants, creating powerful and profitable cartels for themselves and trying to attract a broader clientele by having, for example, a bistro with modest prices, a trendy place that people can go to for unusual and flashier food and a high-end, more sedate and exclusive restaurant.
While restaurant success may still be epitomized by owners like Sirio Maccioni, who for more than 20 years focused all of his attention on turning Le Cirque into one of the city's most acclaimed restaurants, the New York restaurant business is being redefined by people more like Mr. Vongerichten.
Fueled by a strong economy, a fast-growing market for dining out and smaller profit margins, owners like Mr. Vongerichten are creating restaurant concepts that help them appeal to a wider variety of diners. The demand for high-quality places to eat has grown significantly in recent years, as more tourists have flocked to the city, and the area's already large population of diners has become more sophisticated about cuisine and wine.
"Dining in New York is better than it ever was," said Charles Palmer, a chef and owner of the tony restaurant Aureole, as well as Alva and the Lenox Room. "People know much more about food and wine these days."
In 1995, New Yorkers ate out an average of 3.8 times a week, a 21 percent increase over the previous year, according to the Zagat survey of the city's restaurants.
"New York has a large tourist market, and people like to go out two, three times a week," said Andrew Zarnett, a restaurant industry analyst at Ladenburg Thalmann, a New York brokerage firm. "Competition is big here, but if you have a different concept, people will be there."
But one of the difficulties with the high-concept, one-of-a-kind restaurants is that they can lose their luster after a year or two, Mr. Zarnett said. Unless an owner has a superb location, it can become difficult to maintain large profit margins once the buzz dies down, and that can also encourage an owner to create a new concept.
"You can't make money with one restaurant anymore," Mr. Vongerichten said in a recent interview. "Twenty years ago, a place like Lutece would make a 30 percent profit. Taxes were lower, there was less competition. They were booked three months in advance." By opening a variety of restaurants, he said, owners can increase their profits through volume.
"There is more competition now," he said. "More people are going out also. They need more diversity. To make the same money as the people who were in New York before us, we have to open three or four restaurants."
From Sheldon Fireman, the owner of Cafe Concepts, which has five restaurants including Trattoria dell'Arte and the Red Eye Grill, to Alan Stillman, whose New York Restaurant Group operates six restaurants, including Smith & Wollensky and the Manhattan Ocean Club, there is growing evidence that New York's restaurant business is no longer the sole province of single-restaurant owners.
Also among those who have built restaurant groups over the last decade are Drew Nieporent, who owns Montrachet, TriBeCa Grill, Leyla, Zeppole, the Grill at Reebok, Nobu and City Wine and Bar; Steve Hanson, an owner of Isabella's, Coconut Grill, Park Avalon and Blue Water Grill; and Pino Luongo, who in addition to owning Le Madri, Il Toscanaccio and Coco Pazzo Teatro is now in the midst of an expansion of his Coco Pazzo restaurant around the country.
Blending his expertise as a chef with the financial backing of his investment partners, Philip Suarez and Robert Geraldi, Mr. Vongerichten has spent the last six years developing some of the city's most highly rated restaurants.
His first, Jo Jo, which opened in 1991, during a recession, was created to serve "simple food, at $40 to $45 per person," he said. His next, the Lipstick Cafe, which he opened the following year, caters mostly to a "salad and sandwich" crowd. And Vong, the French-accented Thai restaurant that Mr. Vongerichten opened in 1993, is "more international, more exotic."
Unlike restaurant chains, these groups offer different food and decor in each restaurant, but the consistency in quality and service allows owners to transfer the success of an established restaurant to a new one.
"If they're good, they feed off each other," said Jerry Kretchmer, who is a partner in Gotham Bar and Grill, Mesa Grill, Bolo, Judson Grill and Mesa City. "People in one restaurant often ask us to make reservations in another one for them. So there's clearly some feeling of continuity."
Mr. Palmer said that the people who dine at Aureole are willing to go to other restaurants that he is associated with because they are comfortable with his reputation. Next month, Mr. Palmer will open a restaurant called Astra in the Decoration and Design Building at 979 Third Avenue, where simple fare like soups and sandwiches will be served.
And as an owner, Mr. Palmer said, he benefits by having a group of associated restaurants. "The association is good," he said. "We always have the advantage of more buying power. We share a portion of clientele, and we can rely on each other for support."
But while some customers might take comfort in the level of consistency that restaurant groups offer, owners are keenly aware that customers like the romance of unique restaurants. Many owners, consequently, are adamant about distinguishing between their restaurants, and they scoff whenever their businesses are described as "theme restaurants."
Restaurant groups are not new to New York or, for that matter, to most other major cities. In the 1950's, Restaurant Associates, a group based in New York, pioneered the approach, as it grew to own more than 100 restaurants. Many were in New York City, including Mama Leone's, the Sea Grill, and Trattoria in the former Pan Am building. In 1990, Restaurant Associates was sold to a Japanese food-service firm.
Another large group in New York is Ark Restaurants, which is operated by Michael Weinstein and is a publicly traded company. Ark owns more than 20 properties in the city, ranging from Bryant Park Grill to Lutece.
But New York has had few owners who have run more than one or two restaurants at a time. While other cities saw individual owners grow to the point of near dominance in the market, New York restaurants maintained their pure independence.
"The restaurant market has increased so dramatically in the last decade," said Max Pine, an investment banker who for 17 years was president of Restaurant Associates. "With the growth of the industry, where you might have found only one company in each city that had three or more restaurants, now you're finding that there are more companies doing it."
Richard Melman, who built a dining juggernaut in Chicago with his Lettuce Entertain You Enterprises, said he believes that New York owners are finally changing their approach.
"For many years, New York was like Europe," he said. "The thing to do was to do one good restaurant and work it. Be a Sirio at Le Cirque, or an Elaine, and work it."
He said some New York owners have told him in private conversations that they are "going to start thinking bigger."
Mr. Vongerichten said that he has learned "little tips" from Mr. Melman. For example, he gives his top chefs a piece of the equity in the restaurants where they cook, and he never takes workers from one restaurant to a new one because it could diminish the overall quality of his work force.
Because he is the chief chef at all of his restaurants, one of the challenges, Mr. Vongerichten said, is not spreading himself too thin.
"I'm connected with all my restaurants," he said, as he whipped a tiny cellular telephone from his pocket. "I want to know everything going on. Who's there. Who's coming. If they're comping a glass of wine to someone, I'm reachable 24 hours."
In a city with more than 1,800 restaurants, the number of people building restaurant groups is still relatively small in New York. And as Mr. Stillman pointed out, it is so difficult to operate more than one restaurant that the number of people who can successfully build large groups could remain limited.
"Like any multiple-oriented retail industry, going from one to two is the highest risk you take," he said. "It changes your whole modus operandi."
Still, while every restaurant owner may not be expected to open multiple businesses, it is clear that many more are trying their hand at building a successful group.
Even Mr. Maccioni is about to become the operator of two restaurants. Last year, he opened Osteria del Circo, and in April, he will open Le Cirque 2000, the widely anticipated, revamped version of his famed restaurant.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 1997, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 11 about restaurant owners in New York City creating groups of restaurants that, though commonly owned, are each one of a kind referred incorrectly to the ownership of Restaurant Associates, a New York-based company. While it was sold to a Japanese company, Kyotaru, in 1990, it was bought back by an American investment group led by its own management in July 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Dining in New York is better than it ever was," said Charles Palmer, a chef and owner of the Manhattan restaurant Aureole, above, at 34 East 61st Street on the Upper East Side. At Vong, owned by Jean-Georges Vongerichten, an exotic confection awaits a customer. (Photographs by Richard Bowditch) (pg. B8)
 
Photos/Chart: Some of New York's restaurants and chefs are finding success in operating groups of one-of-a-kind, high-concept restaurants. Here are some of them and the New York restaurants they own or own through partnerships.
 
SHELDON FIREMAN
Trattoria dell'Arte, 900 Seventh Avunue
Fiorello's Roman Cafe, 1900 Broadway
The Brooklyn Diner USA, 212 W. 57th Street
The Red Eye Grill, 890 Seventh Avenue
Hosteria Fiorella, 1081 Third Avenue
(Edward Keating/The New York Times)
 
JEAN-GEORGES VONGERICHTEN
Jo Jo, 160 E. 64th Street
Lipstick Cafe, 885 Third Avenue
Vong, 200 E. 54th Street
Jean-Georges, One Central Park West (opening later this month)
(Philip Greenberg/The New York Times)
 
CHARLES PALMER
Aureole, 34 E. 61st Street
Alva, 36 E. 22d Street
The Lenox Room, 1278 Third Avenue
Astra, 979 Third Avenue (opening next month)
(Richard Bowditch for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (92%); BASEBALL (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); CARTELS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); DINING OUT TRENDS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); TOURISM (63%); SECURITIES BROKERS (60%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997



255 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 2055 words

HEADLINE: What's as Green as Ireland And Smoky as a Peat Fire?

BYLINE: By MOIRA HODGSON 

 BODY:
ST. PATRICK'S DAY: it brings to mind shamrocks and, at least for New Yorkers who crowd Fifth Avenue, beer or ale. But seaweed?
Well, why not? Seaweed is as much an Irish specialty as it is a Japanese one. Thanks to a professor at University College, Galway, seaweed has its own home page -- http:// seaweed.ucg.ie -- on the World Wide Web. 
 Figures on the Web give seaweed production in Ireland (34,600 tons were harvested in 1994, the most recent numbers available). And seaweed is even finding its way onto Manhattan menus. Instead of being served as a decoration under an order of half a dozen oysters on the half-shell, it may well be in the dressing. Brad Steelman, the chef at the Water Club in Manhattan, mixes it in a mignonette he makes with sake, mirin (a sweet cooking sake) and rice wine vinegar.
Rick Moonen, the chef at the Manhattan restaurant Oceana, broils it and adds it to salads or soup. "It's like a smoky bacon," he said. Which pretty much describes the taste of most forms of seaweed.
But too often seaweed still provokes the sort of reaction that J. M. Barrie, the author of "Peter Pan," is said to have had when seated at dinner next to George Bernard Shaw. The Irish Shaw was almost as famous a vegetarian as a playwright. Barrie looked down at Shaw's plateful of murky greens and said, "Have you just eaten that or are you about to?"
These days the word used by vegetarians (and by companies that harvest the stuff) is not seaweed but "sea vegetables," said Ken Bergeron, a restaurant consultant and the author of "Professional Vegetarian Cooking," due next year from Van Nostrand Reinhold.
Mr. Bergeron won a gold medal at the Culinary Olympics in Frankfurt in 1991 and 1993 for a vegetarian menu that included seaweed-stuffed squash, seaweed-corn pancakes with roasted tomato, dulse (a kind of seaweed) and garlic sauce, and oyster mushrooms fried in a coating of bread crumbs and powdered seaweed.
"I was looking for those seafood flavors without the fish," he said. "The seaweed made the mushrooms taste like oysters. I called it 'cuisine mirage.' The judges were really surprised when they saw the presentation and read the menus and saw there were no animal products."
James O'Shea, an Irish-born chef who runs the West Street Grill in Litchfield, Conn., has been experimenting with seaweed for years. "You may think that seaweed is something only used in Japanese or Korean cooking," he said, "but in Ireland we've eaten it since the 12th century."
One day recently Mr. O'Shea was stuffing a fillet of Irish salmon with cod roe and rolling it in a crust made with smoked dulse flakes. "Smell it, and you are right back on the coast in Kenmare," he said.
In Ireland seaweed is a major industry and has been for more than a century. "Right in front of us were three islands, and the outlying areas were covered in seaweed, with mussels clinging onto the rocks," Mr. O'Shea said. "All the people in the area used the seaweed as fertilizer, and my father covered his rhubarb patches with it."
More than 500 varieties of seaweed grow wild in Ireland, where it is used in cosmetics, soaps, toothpaste, as an additive in peat and as a source of iodine. The Web site estimates that the Irish seaweed industry contributes about $4.67 million to the Irish economy and employs 320 part-time and 120 full-time harvesters.
For a while after World War II, cereals made from seaweed meal were popular in Ireland. But that was a relatively new way to serve it. The earliest recorded reference to seaweed in Ireland involved dulse, which is known in Ireland as dilisk and has leathery flattened fronds that are used in breads and soups.
A stanza of a poem thought to have been written in the 12th century referred to a monk gathering the stuff. During the potato famine of 1845-49, after virtually depleting supplies of shellfish that lived on seaweed, people ate as much of it as they could gather (it is rich in vegetable protein, vitamin B12, carotene, chlorophyll and fiber).
Later in the 19th century carrageen -- popularly known as "Irish moss," even though it is is not a moss at all, but a dark purplish-red seaweed that grows in pools and on rocks -- was used as a remedy for chest ailments and as a jelling agent for puddings.
Nowadays, Irish chefs are becoming increasingly inventive with carrageen, adding it to everything from salsas to cheesecake. It is even being extolled as a condiment. Mr. O'Shea's sister, Bernadette, who has a restaurant called Truffles in Sligo, bakes it in the oven and grinds it to a fine powder. "I put it in soups, saffron aioli or on top of mixed greens," she said over the telephone from Ireland. "It should be on the shelf in every kitchen."
Perhaps. But the display of seaweeds in Mr. O'Shea's kitchen was not exactly appetizing. One looked like a piece of dust-covered bark, another like withered petals of a purple flower, yet another like a tangle of dried black spaghettini. He pointed to a pale gray stringy heap and joked, "Leftover nylons from World War II." But he said it is really kombu, which is like dulse and has a very mild taste.
The next step after dipping the salmon fillet into dulse granules mixed with flour was to roll it in beaten egg and then in smoked dulse flakes. "I like to use seaweed in flakes and granules not just for the ocean flavor it imparts to seafood," he said, "but because it both keeps it moist and absorbs much less oil than a regular batter. I tried it with crab cakes that were falling apart on me, but it held them together beautifully."
He placed the salmon in the hot oil and seared it on all sides. The seaweed crust turned from purple to deep green. "It looks like a water-washed beach stone," Mr. O'Shea said. "And the taste will take you right back to the beach."
Indeed, the seaweed crust on the salmon acted like a skin and kept the fish beautifully moist inside. It was not in the least greasy, and its smoked seaweed flavor complimented the richness of the fish. With it Mr. O'Shea served cabbage stir-fried with scallions (which the Irish call "spring onions"), tossed with hijiki, the seaweed that looked like black spaghettini, which he had soaked for half an hour until it was soft.
He stirred in a dash of a paste he made with ginger and chili and tossed everything together. The hijiki added a subtle, nutlike aroma that went very well with the cabbage and the salmon.
Mr. O'Shea is not alone among Western chefs to be intrigued by seaweed and its possibilities. Recently, it has shown up on menus as an ingredient in pancakes, salads, stuffings, puddings and even club sandwiches, as well as in a wide range of seafood dishes from oysters to lobster ravioli.
"Super-fresh fish has the flavor of the sea," said Ed Brown, executive chef of the Sea Grill in Manhattan, who uses it in seafood salad, among other things. "And that's what seaweed tastes like. Even the varieties that come salted and dried have that quality."
Mr. O'Shea's next project involves shad roe, a dish that appears every spring on the Irish table, with thick slices of smoked Irish bacon and mashed potatoes. "I'm going to do it in a seaweed crust instead," he said. "That will prevent it from bursting and will be much better for you than all that bacon."
 
Oysters With Seaweed And Cucumber Mignonette
(Adapted from Brad Steelman, the Water Club)
 
Total time: 50 minutes soaking and marinating, 20 minutes hands on

 2 tablespoons hijiki seaweed
 3 ounces rice wine vinegar
 2 ounces sake
 1 ounce mirin (cooking sake)
 1 tablespoon fresh ginger, peeled and minced
 1/2 teaspoon freshly cracked pepper
 2 tablespoons cucumber, peeled and minced
 24 oysters
 3 tablespoons wasabi-cured flying fish roe (optional).
 
 1. Soak the hijiki in warm water for 30 minutes or until it is soft. Drain and chop coarsely. Mix it with the vinegar, sake, mirin, ginger and pepper. Refrigerate for 20 minutes, or until ready to serve.
 2. Shuck the oysters and arrange them on ice on four plates. Add the cucumber to the sauce. Top the oysters with the sauce and a small dollop of flying fish roe.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 265 calories, 7 grams fat, 0 milligrams cholesterol, 330 milligrams sodium, 30 grams protein, 16 grams carbohydrate.
 NOTE: Mr. Steelman, executive chef at the Water Club, says he prefers to use kumamoto oysters for this dish. They are small and buttery, with a light brine.
 
Salmon in Seaweed Crust Stuffed With Smoked Cod
(Adapted from James O'Shea, the West Street Grill)
Total time: 15 minutes

 4 5-ounce fillets of salmon, at room temperature for one hour
 2 ounces smoked cod roe, skinned
 1 cup flour
 1 tablespoon coarse sea salt
 1 teaspoon Cayenne pepper
 1 tablespoon smoked dulse granules
 1 1/2 to 2 ounces dulse flakes, for coating
 1 egg, beaten
 1/4 cup olive oil
 Sprigs of chervil for garnishing.
 
 1. Make an incision in the side of each salmon fillet. Stuff each one with 2 to 3 tablespoons of cod roe.
 2. Combine the flour with the salt, cayenne and dulse granules. Dredge the fillet in the flour mixture and pat off excess. Dip lightly in beaten egg and then lightly coat with dulse flakes, covering all sides; do not make the crust too thick.
 3. Heat the oil in a 12-inch stainless-steel skillet. Saute the fillets on all sides for a total of 5 minutes for rare, 8 minutes for well done (rare to medium rare is preferred for texture and color). Garnish with chervil and serve.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 380 calories, 20 grams fat, 130 milligrams cholesterol, 1,130 milligrams sodium, 30 grams protein, 18 grams carbohydrate.
 NOTE: Smoked cod roe is available by mail order from Petrossian,
182 West 58th Street, New York, N.Y. 10019; (212) 245-2217, (800) 828-9241. Smoked dulse granules are available from Maine Seacoast Vegetables, Franklin, Me. 04634, (207) 565-2907.
 
Seafood Salad With Three Seaweeds And Chinese Black Beans
(Adapted from Ed Brown, the Sea Grill)
Total time: 20 minutes

 1 1/2 teaspoons olive oil
 2 cloves garlic, peeledand sliced
 2 teaspoons ginger, peeled and chopped
 2 scallions, white part only, cut in 1-inch julienne
 1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes, rinsed
 1 teaspoon Chinese black beans (available in Oriental and health food stores)
 1 1/4 cups fish stock
 12 medium shrimp, peeled and butterflied
 12 medium sea scallops
 2 teaspoons miso paste
 1 tablespoon rice vinegar
 1 tablespoon soy sauce, low sodium
 1 cup seaweed salad, prepared (see note)
 3/4 cup goma kombu (seasoned seaweed, see note)
 4 tablespoons nori, cut in julienne (sold in sheets in Oriental and health-food stores)
 
 1. Heat the olive oil in a medium-size casserole over medium heat. Saute the garlic, ginger, scallions, red pepper flakes and black beans in the oil without browning.
 2. Add the stock, bring to boil and simmer for 1 minute. Add the seafood, return to the boil and simmer for approximately 3 minutes. Remove and reserve the shrimp, but cook the scallops about 1 1/2 minutes longer or until they are just cooked. Remove and reserve the scallops.
 3. Return the cooking liquid to the boil and reduce by approximately one-third. Remove and bring to room temperature. Add the miso paste, vinegar and soy sauce. Adjust seasoning to taste.
 4. To assemble: Form a small circle with one-quarter of the prepared sesame seaweed salad, then place 2 scallops on top, then one-quarter of the goma kombu; arrange 3 shrimp on top in a pinwheel and top with the third scallop. Divide the sauce over the 4 plates equally; garnish with a tablespoon of the julienned nori paper on top.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 170 calories, 5 grams fat, 50 milligrams cholesterol, 1,060 milligrams sodium, 17 grams protein, 14 grams carbohydrate.
 NOTE: This salad may also be garnished with soybeans, garlic chives, bud chives, julienned red pepper or thin-sliced red onions.
 Goma kombu is a dark marinated seaweed flavored with mirin and soy, sold fresh and ready to use. It costs $2.45 a container and is sold at Sam Bok, 127 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y., 10036. (212) 221-0845. Sesame seaweed salad is available there at $8.95 a pound.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SEAWEED, CARRAGEEN, DULSE -- The green of 1,000 faces goes into a mignonette sauce that Brad Steelman, the chef at the Water Club in Manhattan, mixes. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); At top, it is part of a seafood salad at the Sea Grill. (James Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. C1); James O'Shea has been cooking with seaweed for years. (Helen Neafsey for The New York Times) (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VAN NOSTRAND REINHOLD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SEAWEED; RECIPES; RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SEAFOOD (74%); VEGETARIAN RESTAURANTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (67%); DRAMA LITERATURE (65%); 

PERSON: HODGSON, MOIRA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



256 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Productivity in 1996 Up 0.7%, Biggest Rise in 4 Years

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Productivity, the main measurement of how quickly American living standards can rise, increased seven-tenths of 1 percent last year. It was the largest rise in four years but still below the standard set in the 1950's and 1960's.
The gain, reported today by the Labor Department, was more than double the 1995 advance of three-tenths of 1 percent and not far short of the typical annual gains seen since the mid-1970's. In the 1960's average annual gains exceeded 3 percent. 
 Productivity is a measure of output per hour of work. Its sluggish growth since the 1970's is viewed as the root of many economic problems, notably slow income growth.
However, in recent years, many economists contend, productivity improvements have actually been better than depicted in reports by the Government, which has had difficulty measuring output in services.
"Although we cannot quite measure output properly, we know there's more of it," said Samuel Kahan, an economist with A.S.K. Financial Research Ltd. in Chicago. "We have changes in technology that are improving our output in all areas."
"The primary force is computers," he said. "It ranges from banking, where you don't have to see a teller -- you can go to an A.T.M. or bank by computer -- to how a person writes a report or to how you have inventory control."
He estimated that actual productivity gains could be as much as one percentage point greater than reported by the Labor Department. "This may be one explanation of why we've had fabulous price behavior even though economic growth seems to be pushing its limits," he said.
Today's report was a downward revision from a month ago, when the annual gain was reported as eight-tenths of 1 percent.
In the fourth quarter, the Labor Department said, productivity grew at a 1.1 percent annual rate, half the 2.2 percent originally reported.
The decline occurred because hours worked increased more than had been thought and output increased less. Besides showing a more modest gain in productivity for the quarter, the revision also meant a steeper rise in unit labor costs, which take account of both hourly wages and productivity. Unit costs rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the quarter, not the 1.4 percent increase originally reported. Nevertheless, the revision was not enough to change the gain in unit labor costs for all of 1996: 2.9 percent, the same as in 1995.
An acceleration in unit labor costs can be a sign of inflationary pressure that could eventually push up prices.
With unemployment near a seven-year low at 5.3 percent in February, some economists expect wage pressures will cause unit labor costs to rise more steeply this year. Other economists, however, share the view of Janet L. Yellen, a former Federal Reserve governor who recently became head of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. On Friday she described the job market as "extremely strong" but without "any evidence of inflationary pressures."
In today's revised report, the gains in manufacturing productivity were a bit higher -- 3.9 percent in 1996 and an annual rate of 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with the previously reported 3.8 percent for both the year and the quarter.
"This report has one central message: that the rapid gains in manufacturing productivity are significantly determined by the influence of rapid improvements in technology," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Productivity" tracks index of output per hour of all people in nonfarm businesses, seasonally adjusted, from the third quarter of 1992 through the end of 1996. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FINANCIAL RESEARCH INC (55%); T M I (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); INFLATION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



257 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Closes Mostly Higher; Gains Trimmed Later in Day

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly higher yesterday, deriving a bit of strength from safe-haven buying after President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia sought to revamp his Cabinet and a Japanese nuclear plant caught fire.
But the dollar's gains partly eroded as the day progressed, with little in the way of economic news to guide the foreign-exchange market. Traders said the dollar was unlikely to move significantly in either direction pending the release of additional data on United States economic growth this week. 
 "At the end of the day we were a little bit higher, but it was really a kind of sideways trading day for the dollar," said Jim Phoenix, director of foreign exchange at CIBC-Wood Gundy in New York.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.7044 marks, up from 1.7020 marks on Monday, and at 121.81 yen, up from 121.63 yen. The pound rose to $1.6072 from $1.6033.
The dollar reached an intraday high of 122 yen on news of a fire and explosion at a Japanese nuclear waste-handling plant in Tokai, about 70 miles northeast of Tokyo.
Traders bought dollars defensively on the uncertainty about the extent of damage, acting on the knowledge that Japan is heavily dependent on nuclear energy. But as it became clear that the fire was not serious and there was no radioactive leak, the dollar backtracked.
Likewise, the dollar reached an intraday high of 1.7040 marks on news that Mr. Yeltsin had ordered Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin to make new Cabinet appointments. Traders often buy dollars and sell marks on political uncertainty in Russia, Germany's biggest trading partner.
"The dollar popped up as the markets were caught by surprise on the Yeltsin news," said Stephen Flanagan, senior currency trader at the New York branch of Credit Agricole.
But the dollar lost much of the gain as the market subsequently interpreted Mr. Yeltsin's move as a decisive effort to reassert authority over the drifting Russian Government.
"The dollar just seemed to back off a bit, as there wasn't much of a push behind it," said Robert Katz, a currency trader at the MTB Bank Corporation in New York. "There was nothing to reinvigorate the dollar bulls and draw people off the sidelines." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (53%); ACA (BIT) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (53%); MTB BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ATOMIC ENERGY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (67%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; FIRES AND FIREMEN CURRENCIES (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FIRES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GERMAN MARK (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NUCLEAR WASTE (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BRITISH POUND (69%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



258 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: President's Plan to Rein In Medicaid Costs Draws Bipartisan Fire

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Governors and members of Congress from both parties today denounced President Clinton's proposal to impose firm limits on Federal Medicaid spending, and the governors offered a number of alternative ways to save money.
At separate hearings in the Senate and the House, Mr. Clinton's proposal for annual per-capita limits on Medicaid spending won support from only one lawmaker: Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a conservative Republican, who said such restraints would help balance the Federal budget. 
 Federal spending on Medicaid, the Federal-state health program for 37 million low-income people, grew by more than 20 percent a year in the early 1990's. Although the growth has slowed since then, Mr. Clinton says the Government must take steps to prevent another explosion of costs.
But critics say his plan would simply shift costs to the states.
Gov. Bob Miller of Nevada, a Democrat who is chairman of the National Governors' Association, said the Clinton proposal would "help the Federal Government balance the budget on the backs of the states." While the President's proposal would limit Federal spending, Mr. Miller noted, it would not limit state Medicaid spending, and the states would still be required to provide all the benefits guaranteed under current law.
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, a Republican, said the limits would discourage states from expanding health insurance coverage of children, a goal that Mr. Clinton has espoused. Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, echoed that concern, saying the proposal "could inadvertently increase the number of uninsured children."
The New York Senators, Alfonse M. D'Amato, a Republican, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat, also spoke forcefully against the President's plan.
The hearings today were held by the Senate Finance Committee and the House Commerce Subcommittee on Health and Environment. Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, said after his hearing that Medicaid caps were still "on the table."
"We certainly don't rule it out at this stage," Mr. Roth said.
The precise amount to be squeezed from Medicaid will be determined in negotiations over the Federal budget as a whole, although it is unclear whether President Clinton and Congress -- or Republicans and Democrats within Congress -- will reach a broad budget agreement this year limiting Medicaid and other benefits.
The governors noted that they had already reined in the growth of Medicaid, with the result that the Congressional Budget Office recently lowered its projections of Federal Medicaid spending from 1997 through 2002 by $86 billion, or 11 percent.
The governors said they could save $8 billion more if Congress allowed them to make greater use of managed care and to exclude doctors and hospitals that charge unusually high fees. Mr. Clinton, in contrast, has proposed $22 billion in savings, although he would spend $13 billion of that amount on new health benefits, for children and others.
Since its creation in 1965, Medicaid has been an open-ended program, providing health insurance to poor people who meet eligibility criteria set by Federal and state laws.
Under Mr. Clinton's proposal, though, average Federal spending on a Medicaid recipient could rise no faster than the nation's per-capita economic output. The total of Federal Medicaid spending would still increase automatically with the eligible population, but state officials say they would have difficulty maintaining existing benefits.
If the Federal Government reached its spending limit, Mr. Miller said, "states would essentially have to choose between cutting back on payment rates for health care providers, eliminating optional benefits provided to recipients, ending coverage for optional beneficiaries or coming up with additional state funds to absorb 100 percent of the cost of services."
Representative Michael Bilirakis, the Florida Republican who is chairman of the Commerce subcommittee, said he was disappointed that the governors had not proposed greater savings. Senator Gramm said Congress was certain to demand more, and he praised Mr. Clinton's proposal as "real honest-to-God reform that will save money."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MEDICAID (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



259 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Fall in Price

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell yesterday, as investors continued to worry that coming economic data might be strong enough to prompt the Fed to raise short-term rates.
The 30-year bond dropped 14/32, to a price of 97 6/32, pushing its yield up to 6.85 percent, from 6.81 percent on Monday. 
 Analysts also noted yesterday that concern was raised by an announcement by Fidelity's Magellan Fund that it had cut its bond position to eight-tenths of 1 percent in January from 3.8 percent at the end of last year and 18 percent when it changed managers about eight months ago.
Bonds came off their lows in the afternoon, when Robert McTeer, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said the Fed was on guard against inflation that might arise from tight labor markets but was not yet ready to raise rates.
"The labor markets are so tight there is a danger wage pressure will exceed productivity gains, and then higher wages could spill over into product prices," Mr. McTeer told a reporter before speaking to a group of community leaders at the San Antonio branch of the Dallas Fed.
"On the other hand, commodity prices are low, including gold, and are well behaved," Mr. McTeer said. "So we are in the same place we've been for a year. We're on guard, but there's nothing to tip us over into tightening."
The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee meets two weeks from now, on March 25, to consider whether to raise the overnight bank lending rate. Mr. McTeer is not a voting member of the committee; he was replaced by Jack Guynn, president of the Atlanta Fed, at the beginning of the year.
Patrick R. Ledford, senior fixed-income portfolio manager at Citibank Global Asset Management, said Mr. McTeer's comments raised investor hopes that the Fed would remain on hold at the March 25 Federal Open Market Committee meeting. But he believes the die was cast last week.
"After the Greenspan comments a week ago, you can't expect bonds to rally on good inflation data," Mr. Ledford said. "His comment diminished the significance of good data." Mr. Ledford's reference was to the comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman.
If the Fed does raise rates, he added, it will be the pre-emptive kind the chairman warned about. "But we haven't seen any signs of higher inflation, though the risk of a Fed tightening is very real. We're constructive longer term from a fundamental standpoint, but tactically we're concerned like everyone on the Street."
Among the reasons he cites for the Fed to remain on hold are moderate growth, low inflation, a strong currency and attractive higher rates relative to foreign rates.
David Shabelman, market analyst at MMS International, San Francisco, said Mr. McTeer's comments led to a short-cover rally, as investors betting that the market would go down, were forced to buy securities to hold down losses.
Short positions occur when some market participants sell borrowed securities, hoping to buy them back later at lower prices, thereby pocketing the difference. But if prices begin to rise instead of fall, as was the case after Mr. McTeer spoke, these participants have to cover their short positions by buying back the securities in order to limit their losses.
The afternoon release of the Redbook survey of retail sales, which showed a 1.1 percent gain for the period ended last Saturday, was fairly strong and weighed on the market. "It only served to confirm the morning Mitsubishi report of a strong 1.3 percent rise in retail sales," Mr. Shabelman said. "As the weekly retails sales continue to show strength, investors are growing wary."
The market is still bearish, he continued, so selling continues on any upticks on strength. "Our most recent survey is showing less than a fifty-fifty chance of a March tightening, which I believe the market consensus is. About 90 percent of the people surveyed think the Fed will act by May. So the data the market is to receive over the next couple of weeks is critical for those trying to get a jump on Fed intentions."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (53%); C (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOLD MARKETS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); CURRENCIES (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



260 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Tradition triumphs: an obvious choice is the clear favorite in planning where to be on Dec. 31, 1999.

DATELINE: Edwin McDowell

 BODY:
THE countdown has been under way for months for New Year's Eve 1999, with the Pyramids, the Eiffel Tower and the international date line among destinations being promoted as "the place" to welcome in the year 2000. But a recent survey in the United States found that among those who say they are planning a special trip that New Year's, the overwhelming favorite destination is (the envelope please) -- New York/Times Square, the choice of 45.8 percent of the respondents.
The fifth annual YP&B/Yankelovich Partners survey of pleasure travelers found these other destinations on the top 10 wish list for that special eve: Las Vegas (13.2 percent), New Orleans (8.5), a cruise (8.2), Alaska (6.3), Los Angeles (6.3), Colorado (5.8), Brazil (5.3), Jamaica (5.2) and Hawaii (5.1). 

Busy Summer for Hong Kong
Airline seats and hotel rooms for travelers to Hong Kong are still scarce to nonexistent for the days leading up to July 1, when the colony reverts from British to Chinese rule. But plenty of seats and rooms are available in most of the weeks and months after the change of government, although tourist officials warn that Hong Kong will be crowded again Sept. 23-25, when some 10,000 visitors are expected for the annual meeting of the boards of governors of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Otherwise, Japan Airlines reports that its flights into Hong Kong are sold out from June 26 through July 4, while its departing flights are sold out June 29 through July 8. Other than that, a spokesman for J.A.L. said, as of now there are plenty of seats. United and Northwest also have seats available after the change-over, although advance bookings are somewhat stronger than expected for the rest of the summer.
Marriott's two Hong Kong properties, the J. W. Marriott (600 rooms) and the Ritz-Carlton (216) both report strong bookings through the third quarter, but say there are still rooms available. The Excelsior (874 rooms) and the Mandarin Oriental (480) have rooms available from about mid-July through the rest of the summer, which is Hong Kong's slowest tourist season. But unless the change in government makes visitors wary, business travelers and tourists are expected to flock back to Hong Kong in the fall, which vies with spring as the busiest season.

They Came From . . .
If you think Hong Kong will be crowded in early July, don't try to get a hotel room in Roswell, N.M., over the Fourth of July holiday. The city's permanent population of about 50,000 is expected to double over that three-day weekend -- the 50th anniversary of what many believe was the crash of a U.F.O. on a nearby ranch. While apparently no one saw the purported crash, it has spawned all sorts of theories, a television movie, network television features and an International U.F.O. Museum and Research Center at Roswell that in three and a half years has attracted 180,000 visitors, coming from all 50 states and 54 other countries.
A new brochure from the Roswell Convention and Visitors Bureau -- its margins covered with drawings of U.F.O.'s and comets hurtling toward earth -- shows a photograph of the purported crash site with three mysterious lights in the background, glimpsed through the window of a pickup truck. The tag line reads: "Roswell. Some of our most famous visitors . . . came from out of state."

Automatic Bills and Coins
More and more New York hotels are installing automated currency conversion machines in their lobbies. The machine in the Ramada Milford Plaza, a Broadway hotel where half the guests are foreigners, dispenses American bills and coins in exchange for Brazilian reals, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Dutch guilders, French francs, German marks, Israeli shekels, Italian lire, Japanese yen and Swiss francs. The exchange is at the daily interbank rate.
The 10 currencies accepted at the machine in the Novotel New York are the same as at the Milford Plaza except that it does not take shekels or reals but does take Spanish pesetas and Swedish kronor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ;RAMADA MILFORD PLAZA (NYC); YANKELOVICH PARTNERS MANDARIN ORIENTAL MANILA (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;RAMADA MILFORD PLAZA (NYC); YANKELOVICH PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); HONG KONG; CHINA; ; ROSWELL (NM); GREAT BRITAIN; HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS (UFO) ; INDEPENDENCE DAY (US) (JULY 4); CURRENCY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); TOURISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



261 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: A Disney Import Seeks Tonic for Club Med Losses

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, March 7

 BODY:
Philippe Bourguignon, the former head of Euro Disney, got a first-hand feel for Club Mediterranee since taking over as its new chief executive earlier this month, visiting two Club Med villages, and meeting in London with sales and marketing executives.
In February, Club Med's shareholders, led by the Agnelli family of Italy, whose primary holding company controls roughly 13 percent of Club Med shares, hired Mr. Bourguignon. They had lost patience with Serge Trigano, Club Med's chief executive since 1993 and a son of Gilbert Trigano, who helped develop the concept of vacation villages in the 1950's. With Mr. Bourguignon's arrival, the younger Mr. Trigano was given a largely ceremonial post as chairman. In October, Mr. Trigano came under fire after predicting a large profit for 1996, then reversing himself and instead announcing a $130 million loss -- the club's third loss in six years. 
 By last year, the number of Club Med guests had fallen to 1.4 million, compared with 1.8 million in 1989, the peak year for customers and revenue. All through the summer Club Med's share price sagged, reaching a low of 304.8 francs in November.
It may have seemed like a crisis brought about by European yuppies tiring of sunny holidays in artificial Polynesian villages resembling the ones Gauguin painted. But the challenges facing Mr. Bourguignon, 49, are more those of wide economic sluggishness, high unemployment and lack of the disposable income that enabled generations of Europeans to make Club Med -- "the antidote to civilization," as it trumpeted itself -- into a thriving vacation business.
With unemployment in France exceeding 12 percent, more than double the rate in the United States, Club Med's business is flagging in the country where it was founded almost a half-century ago, and which generates roughly a third of its business.
In Germany, another key market, poor salesmanship and an onslaught of clever imitators is hurting business. And in the United States, which in 1989 supplied 220,000 club guests, business is stagnant, hampered by ineffective marketing and club management that some Club Med executives feel became increasingly aloof and perhaps too French for American tastes.
All this has produced a wide gap between high fixed investment and costs and low returns at the company, only growing wider in the current economic climate.
"There is a failure to match supply and demand, and a cost control and organization that are simply not adequate," said Nigel Reed, an analyst with Paribas Capital Markets in London, who lowered Club Med shares from a buy rating to "fair value, no action" after the stock price reacted to the management shake-up by climbing to 451 francs.
[In Paris on Tuesday, Club Med shares closed unchanged at 433 francs. American depository receipts of Club Med, each representing one-fifth of a share, closed at $14.875, down 62.5 cents, on the Nasdaq bulletin board.]
Even before the management shift, Mr. Trigano had begun making efforts to get a grip on the vacation group's problems. After commissioning a study by Bain & Company, the Boston-based consultants, Club Med late last year announced a turnaround plan that involved closing or getting rid of 7 of its 114 properties, and upgrading the others in a $144 million refurbishing program.
To revive business from Americans, it hired Andrew Jordan, a former Coca-Cola marketing executive. Pricing policy has been overhauled to make Club Med vacations more affordable, and the renovation of existing villages has begun.
The injection of new blood with Mr. Bourguignon's arrival is expected to accelerate the process of turning the company around.
But he will have to press further to reduce operating costs, analysts say, and tackle the cultural differences that trouble Americans. Still, his success at resolving such problems at Euro Disney prompted Fraser Ramzan, an analyst with Lehman Brothers Securities in London, to give Club Med stock an outperform rating, meaning he expects the share price to outperform the market over the next year by 5 to 15 percent.
One reason analysts like Mr. Bourguignon is that he is no stranger to the group he took over. In years past, he vacationed at Club Med villages in Morocco with his wife and two children. While at Euro Disney, he kept abreast of Club Med doings through the occasional recruitment of club executives, including Michel Perchet, who now directs the cast members (like the people in the Mickey Mouse costumes) at Disneyland Paris, the theme park east of the French capital.
Indeed, as word of Club Med's travails spread last fall, Mr. Bourguignon even suggested that Disney acquire the group, though the idea was rejected by executives of the Walt Disney Company in California.
Many of the problems he faces at Club Med are similar to those he resolved at Disneyland Paris. In 1988, Mr. Bourguignon was hired by Disney from the French hotel group Accor. After the theme park -- then called Euro Disneyland -- had suffered heavy losses from 1992 through 1994, he was appointed chief executive and made responsible for returning it to profitability. He cut costs and prices drastically, recast the marketing concept and made subtle cultural adjustments to the way the park was run to make it more palatable to European tastes.
By last year, Mr. Bourguignon's methods had increased the number of visitors to 11.7 million, from 10.7 million in the previous fiscal year, driving up net income 77 percent, to $35.5 million.
Yet analysts say that in some ways the problems he faces at Club Med are far more complex than those he resolved at Disney. While Disneyland Paris represents a single site sought out by visitors, often with their own transportation, the problems at Club Med involve bringing guests from dozens of countries to sites scattered around the world. He has not yet said how he will tackle them, preferring to take time first to get to know the company and its employees firsthand.
Analysts also note that the group makes an attractive acquisition target. "It has an excellent brand name, villages around the globe in fabulous locations, and a product appreciated by countless millions of customers," Mr. Reed of Paribas said. "It's a prime takeover candidate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (90%); EDL (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (78%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (90%); EURO DISNEY SCA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SALES MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: BOURGUIGNON, PHILIPPE; AGNELLI FAMILY; TRIGANO, SERGE; TRIGANO, GILBERT; TAGLIABUE, JOHN SERGE TRIGANO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



262 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: So Much Hot Air

BYLINE: By Gregg Easterbrook; Gregg Easterbrook, a contributing editor of The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of "A Moment on the Earth: The Coming Age of Environmental Optimism."

DATELINE: BRUSSELS

 BODY:
Bookkeeping gimmicks employed to simulate big reductions. Promises of a decisive decrease, but not until somebody else is in office. Borrowing against future generations. Sound like the old Reagan-era budget schemes? Actually, these statements describe the Clinton Administration's plan for curbing emissions of gases that may cause the greenhouse effect.
Not only is the Administration surprisingly irresolute on reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases, but it is also missing a golden opportunity to advocate a reform that would help the environment and increase industrial efficiency: a tax on the burning of fossil fuels that would be offset by cuts in other corporate taxes. 
 A treaty signed by more than 150 countries in 1992 in Rio de Janiero committed them to reducing emissions that may cause artificial global warming. Two international summits in Kyoto, Japan, later this year will supposedly bring the agreement into force. But many countries hope to wriggle out of their commitments, and the United States is doing some of the most uninhibited wriggling.
In its proposal, recently submitted to the United Nations, the Administration has set laudable long-term goals for reducing worldwide emissions. The catch is that the plan would not have teeth until 2010 -- long after President Clinton has left office (even a two-term Gore Presidency could have ended).
For public relations purposes, the Administration is insisting that its proposal is "binding." But the plan is backed up by little more than an honor system. It is as if the White House said there will be a "binding" law against speeding, but that no tickets would be issued until 2010.
The Clinton proposal would even allow governments to appear to be making greenhouse progress by "borrowing" credits from future years -- claiming a decrease today through nothing more than a pledge to cut emissions in the distant future.
During the 1992 Presidential campaign, Al Gore repeatedly excoriated President George Bush for failing to support binding reductions in greenhouse gases by 2000. Now, apparently not wanting to upset industry, the Administration says that short-term greenhouse gas reductions would unnecessarily burden manufacturers. It has defined "short term" as anything before the year 2010.
If Vice President Gore really believed, as he once said, that the possibility of global warming is "the worst crisis our country has ever faced," why is the White House plan so meek?
The Administration plan does have a couple of good initiatives among its weaknesses. One is that companies would, as an alternative to cutting their own emissions, be able to buy greenhouse gas "credits" from other factories that cut their emissions to even lower levels than required. The model for this plan is a 1990 law that allows the trading of permits for emissions that produce acid rain. This has helped cut acid rain faster than expected and at about one-tenth the cost projected by the Bush Administration.
The White House plan would also allow corporations to gain credits for greenhouse gas emissions by helping to reduce pollution in fast-growing countries like China. American companies could then forgo expensive renovations of their relatively efficient factories in the United States by, say, paying for the modernization of hugely inefficient Chinese power plants. This would help cut overall global emissions while sending Western money and technology to other countries.
Still, the Clinton plan overlooks a far more effective incentive to reduce greenhouse gases: imposing a tax on the burning of fossil fuels. At the same time, other corporate taxes could be reduced. You can be a skeptic about whether dangerous global warming has been proved -- I certainly am -- and still support these carbon taxes.
Moderate taxes on the greenhouse emissions of power plants, factories and automobiles would create an incentive for improved energy efficiency, which is in the national interest regardless of whether the global temperature is rising, falling or doing nothing at all. A 1992 Bush Administration study found that greenhouse gases could be cut by up to 11 percent with no cost to the economy, considering the value of fuel savings.
A levy on the consumption of fossil fuels is attractive because it shifts the tax burden toward pollution, a negative, and away from capital and labor, which are positives. That is why more than 2,000 economists from across the political spectrum, including six Nobel laureates, signed a statement last month calling for carbon taxes as part of a system of tradeable permits for greenhouse emissions.
Carbon taxes would reward the efficient use of natural resources and cut greenhouse gas emissions without harming industry. Surely a President who cannot run again -- and a Vice President who believes global warming to be a serious threat -- could support such progressive goals.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Istvan Banyai)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (56%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (53%); KYOTO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (56%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (53%); KYOTO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; AIR POLLUTION; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; TREATIES EMISSIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ACID RAIN (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SPEED LIMITS (64%); 

PERSON: EASTERBROOK, GREGG; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



263 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Without Illusions

 BODY:
Congress and the Clinton Administration appear headed for a collision over Mexico. Just weeks before President Clinton is scheduled to visit Mexico, Congress is moving to override the Administration's disingenuous certification that its Government is fully cooperating in the fight against illegal drugs. A successful override would invite a diplomatic confrontation with Mexico. But the crisis would be worth enduring if it led Washington to a more realistic appreciation of Mexico's problems and of President Ernesto Zedillo's failure to address them with sufficient resolve.
The Administration invited a Congressional rebuff when it pretended all was well with Mexican drug enforcement. It acted immediately after a series of embarrassing incidents made plain that pervasive corruption in Mexico's police, military and ruling party has blunted drug enforcement and led Mexican officials to withhold vital information from American authorities. 
 Only days before the certification decision came word that Mexico's recently appointed drug enforcement chief had been arrested for corruption, and that news of his downfall had been kept secret for nearly two weeks.
Largely because of this breakdown of enforcement and cooperation, well over half the cocaine entering the United States now passes through Mexico. Mexico has become the principal conduit for South American cocaine as well as a supplier of homegrown marijuana and heroin.
Mexico already resents the idea of a Washington report card on its law enforcement efforts. The insult would be far greater if Mexico received a failing grade, even if the Administration, as it surely would, waived the economic penalties that decertification could bring. The annual drug certification review is not a useful process. But as long as it is required by law, Washington does best to tell the American people, and itself, the truth.
In Mexico's case, that truth is cause for considerable concern. The drug enforcement problems are symptomatic of a deeper crisis in Mexican political life.
The old regime, represented by the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, has used patronage networks and, on occasion, electoral fraud to monopolize Mexico's presidency and dominate its politics for nearly seven decades. It is now in deep disarray, unable to reform itself and unwilling to give way to a more democratic and accountable system. President Zedillo is a weak but decent leader, apparently too beholden to the PRI establishment to reform it.
He has failed, for example, to move aggressively to clean up the notoriously drug-corrupted Federal Judicial Police. Mr. Zedillo has instead relied on regular army generals who are themselves proving vulnerable to bribery and other abuses. New reports link army drug fighters to a series of mysterious kidnapping incidents. Mr. Zedillo has failed to challenge federal and state politicians whose failure to halt drug trafficking in their areas of jurisdiction suggests either active complicity or incompetence.
With a long common border and a wide array of common interests, the United States has compelling reasons to maintain constructive relations with Mexico. But such relations can only be based on an honest assessment of Mexican conditions, including the obvious problems now afflicting its drug enforcement programs.
Unless President Zedillo attacks these problems boldly by initiating a thorough housecleaning of corrupt officials, Congress should override Mexico's certification.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); COCAINE (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); ARMIES (76%); BRIBERY (74%); HEROIN (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); CANNABIS (72%); ARRESTS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



264 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: 6 Years in the Plus Column for the U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The economic expansion of the 1990's, six years old this month, is displaying a resilience uncharacteristic of earlier periods of such sustained growth.
The pace of the economy -- surging in some months, faltering a bit in others -- has reached an annual growth rate of 4 percent in recent months, well above average. Unemployment has held below 5.5 percent for the better part of a year, an experience that in the 1970's and 1980's helped cause wages and prices to escalate. 
 Consumer spending remains strong, much of it on credit. Industrial production is on the upswing, advancing at nearly a 5 percent annual rate. And home construction and auto sales, two pillars of the economy, were strong last year, although they have tapered off slightly in recent weeks.
"The strength will last until the summer," predicted Edward Hyman, president and chief economist of the ISI Group, a Wall Street firm, offering a view that is fairly common among economic forecasters. Many expect that the economy will strengthen again by the fall, after the summer breather.
But so far none of this renewed strength has led to the shortages and inflation that prompted the Federal Reserve to bring down past expansions by raising interest rates high enough to starve the economy for credit. What makes this expansion different is that even in its strongest moments, including the surge this winter, inflation has remained quiescent, leaving the Fed with little provocation to act.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has acknowledged that this is a less inflationary expansion, in part because the Fed notched up interest rates in 1994. But he suggested in recent testimony that the Fed's policy makers might raise interest rates soon anyway, as a "pre-emptive strike" against some future inflation and, perhaps, to cool down the stock market. He noted, however, that any rate increase would most likely be modest.
There are several reasons the expansion of the 1990's has unfolded in a different fashion from those of the past.
Cheap and abundant imports have played a role. So have falling prices for computers, whose booming sales have helped to fuel growth, and health care costs are rising less rapidly.
Wages have remained remarkably restrained. That is, in part, a result of a sudden influx of people into the labor force -- some of them older workers, some immigrants, some women -- while the growing use of temporary and contract workers has relieved pressure to grant raises. And millions of Americans have helped the process in their willingness to trade job security for modest improvements in their wages.
The United States has had three long expansions in the last 35 years. In the 1960's, the economy grew without a recession for more than eight years. The expansion of the 1980's lasted nearly eight years. But six years into the 1980's expansion, when unemployment was as low as it is today, wages were already moving up steadily and prices were rising more than 4 percent a year to cover the higher wages. Even in the 1960's, the healthiest expansion on record, inflation started to rise after five years of growth.
But none of that is happening today, "mainly because tight labor markets don't lead so quickly to higher wages," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Company.
Still, there is bound to be a recession at the end of the rainbow. "The Fed controls the business cycle," Mr. Roach said. "And in the end, it will raise rates enough to bring on a recession." Or the Fed will raise rates, trying to hold back the economy, and then an outside shock -- an oil crisis or a stock market crash -- will cause the next recession.
That happened last time. With interest rates rising, the Persian Gulf crisis burst over the economy, bringing on the recession that started in July 1990.
Compress the American economy into a line on a chart and the last six years look like a gently undulating roller coaster, rising until late 1994, falling in 1995, rising again late last year, perhaps to level off once more later this year. The annual growth rate, in the best of these times, has approached 4 percent, and in the worst it has fallen to just above 1 percent. The average over the six years has been 2.6 percent, which is what many economists consider the limit of growth in this country that can be sustained without generating inflationary pressures.
But they are not as certain of this as they once were. The limits have clearly shifted in the 1990's, and corporate America offers endless anecdotal evidence of the change.
Larger-than-usual wage increases are evident among pockets of workers, but the pressure is not spreading. The Principal Financial Group, an insurance company in Des Moines, for example, is desperately short of computer programmers and systems analysts. Nearly 1,200 of its 8,000 workers in Des Moines hold these jobs. To lure enough new ones -- to a city where unemployment is less than 3 percent -- Principal starts college graduates who have the right skills at $34,000, plus relocation costs. That compares with $28,000 (and no extras for relocation) for college graduates without those skills. Raises for the programmers and systems analysts are 8 to 10 percent a year, or twice the raises for college-trained regular employees.
But none of the regulars are agitating for pay equity, as they might have done a decade or two ago, says Thomas Gaard, a senior vice president. The pay pressure remains in an enclosed group. "People understand there are market issues here," Mr. Gaard said. "There is all the analogy to sports stars."
Nationwide, nearly 13 million people, 10 percent of the work force, are temporary and contract workers, and companies often use them to cut labor costs. Consider Norrell Services Inc., a temporary-help agency based in Atlanta. It takes over telephone marketing operations at big companies, running the operations and supplying contract workers.
"These are housewives coming into the work force, college students, people who have jobs and want a second one," Bruce Reek, a Norrell executive, said. "They are maybe making $8 an hour on their job, and they add this one at $6.50." But as part of its standard deal with its client companies, Norrell agrees to achieve annual improvements in output per worker, and thus bill clients for fewer workers. Even if the efficiencies are not achieved, Mr. Reek said, the billing must be lowered as if they were.
Cheap and abundant imports give consumers and corporations easy alternatives to domestic production. Everywhere in the industrial and developing world, foreign businesses count on the United States to absorb their excess production, particularly Europe and Japan, where weak economies have depressed local demand.
The Eaton Corporation of Cleveland, a maker of auto parts and controls for household appliances, never knows when a client might defect, says Stephen R. Hardis, its chairman. "The appliance companies are selling to consumers on the basis of price, and you can lose their business any day," he said. "There are Europeans with extra capacity, and people in Asia trying to get a toehold, or domestic producers who lost business and are hungry."
Labor markets might seem tight, but they actually are not, according to the yardstick of Warren L. Batts, chairman of the Tupperware Corporation in Deerfield, Ill., which has 100,000 women selling its household wares on commission. "When the economy is really booming, when jobs are going unfilled all over the place," he said, Tupperware has difficulty recruiting these women. "But as long as the economy is growing at a modest rate, direct selling is an opportunity, and that is where we are now."
Other factors, peculiar to this expansion, have helped to hold down inflation. Medical insurance premiums paid by corporations have risen at a much slower pace, helping to contain overall labor costs. And one-quarter of the economic growth last year came from the production and sale of computers, whose prices were falling, according to David Wyss, chief economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill, a consulting firm. "Part of those sales were in the new hardware you had to buy to run Windows 95," he said. "Those sales are slowing now."
And help came last year from an unexpected quarter. The American labor force -- the total number of people employed or actively looking for work -- normally grows at just over 1 percent a year. An extra injection of workers means more output, and a more robust expansion without labor shortages. That happened last year, when the labor force grew by nearly 2 percent.
Immigrants accounted for some of the rise. In addition, the participation in the labor force of Americans between 55 and 64, particularly men, stopped falling. Indeed, it began to rise again in 1995. And women between 25 and 54, whose participation had risen until the early 1990's, then leveled off, are going to work in growing numbers again, drawn in, experts say, by the strong economy.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Real Economic Growth" tracks quarterly data from 1990 through 1996. (pg. D1); "Doing Fine, Thank You" tracks unemployment, job growth, inflation and optimism data, from 1990 through 1996. (Source: Haver Analytics) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ISI GROUP INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ; CONSUMER CREDIT; AUTOMOBILES; HOUSING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); STARVATION (71%); OLDER WORKERS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



265 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: MONEY AND POLITICS;
Excerpts From Clinton's Remarks on Political Reform

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's remarks today before the Conference on Free Television and Political Reform at the National Press Club, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription service:
We have to do some things to improve the way our political system works at election time, and the way it communicates, or its leaders communicate, to people all year-round. This should not be surprising to anyone. The Founding Fathers understood that we were an experiment. We're still around after all these years because we have relished the idea that we are an experiment, that America is a work in progress, that we're constantly in the making. We always have to change. 
 A lot of good things have happened to expand participation in the political system from the time we were a new nation, when only white male property owners can vote. And we have to make some more changes now. But if you look at the changes which have been made in the last 200 years, we should be hopeful.
Television has the power to expand the franchise or to shrink the franchise. Indeed, that is true of all means of communications and all media. We know that television is a profound and powerful force. We know that we don't fully understand all of its implications, even what you said, Walter, we don't really know what the connection is between television and a diminished voter turnout. It could be because there's a poll on television every night that tells people about the election, so some people think that there's no point in their voting, because the person they're for is going to win anyway or the person they're for can't win anyway. We need to think about that. . . .
It is now a commonplace, everybody will tell you, that campaigns cost too much and it takes too much time to raise the money, and the more money you raise from the larger number of people, the more questions will be raised about that. Major party committees spent over three times as much in this last election cycle as four years before, and that doesn't count the third-party expenditures, both the genuinely independent third-party committees and those that weren't really independent, although they claim to be. Spending in Congressional campaigns has risen sixfold in the last two decades. That's over three times the rate of inflation.
The biggest reason for this is the rise in the cost of television. But of course, there is also now more money being spent on mail, on telephoning, on radio, and other print advertising as well. In 1972 candidates spent $25 million for political ads; in 1996, $400 million. Presidential campaigns now routinely spend two-thirds or more of their money on paid ads; Senate candidates, 42 percent of their money on television; House races, about a third. Interestingly enough, that's often because there is no single television market which just overlaps the House district, and often the cost is prohibitive, particularly in the urban districts. But you get the drift. It's the same everywhere.
We are the only major democracy in the world where candidates have to raise larger and larger sums of money simply to communicate with voters through the medium that matters most. Every other major democracy offers candidates or parties free air time to speak to voters. And we can plainly do better, building on the big first step urged by this group in 1996.
We have an obligation to restore our campaign finance system to a system that has the broad confidence of the American people, but also of the American press that comments on it. In order to do that, television has to be part of the solution.
I have said before, and I will say again, everybody who has been involved in this system has to take responsibility for it and for changing it. Those of us in public life know better than anybody else what the demands of prevailing in the present system are, and those who control the airwaves understand it well also.
First and most fundamentally, I came here to support Senator McCain.
We have to take advantage of this year to pass campaign finance reform. The campaign finance laws are two decades out of date. They have been overtaken by events, by dramatic changes in the nature and costs of campaigns and the flood of money that has followed them. The money has been raised and spent in ways that simply could not have been imagined when the people who fashioned the last campaign finance law in Congress did it. . . .
What we have to argue is, yes, we really need to be up here doing the public's business. We need to be balancing the budget, improving education, reforming welfare, expanding health care coverage to children who don't have it, passing juvenile justice reform, the kinds of things that I'm passionately interested in.
But having the right kind of campaign finance reform system and having the right kind of straight talk on television, and having issues be more -- elections be more issue oriented, and having the debates of both sides heard clearly by all people, and increasing voter interest and voter turnout, all these things will increase the likelihood that this laundry list of good things will be done and will be done in better fashion than would otherwise be the case.
I think it is very important that those of you who care about this make this connection because that's how to build broad and deep support for this endeavor.
It seems to me that we do have an historic opportunity to pass campaign finance reform, and I think the public owes a lot of gratitude to Senator McCain and Senator Feingold and Congressman Shays and Congressman Meehan and all of their supporters for the legislation they have offered. It is real and tough. It would level the playing field and reduce the role of big money in politics. It would set voluntary limits on campaign spending and ban soft money, all corporate contributions and the very large individual ones. It would restrict the role of political action committees and lobbyists and make needed reforms within the confines of the Constitution as defined by existing Supreme Court case law.
In all these ways, it would set ceilings on money and politics. And just as important, it would also provide a floor -- and I think that is very important -- it would also provide a floor. You actually have some members in Congress who come from districts with a very low per-capita income, for example, who are very afraid of campaign finance reform because they're afraid among their own constituents they'll never be able to raise enough money in their district to compete the first time a multimillionaire runs against them.
So the law has to give a floor, and McCain-Feingold does that by giving candidates free air time to talk directly to the voters if they observe the spending limits of the law. And we need to emphasize that any ceiling law should have a floor to guarantee that people have their say and are heard. It gives candidates deeply discounted rates for the purchase of time if they observe the limits of the law. . . .
In my State of the Union Address, I asked Congress to pass the McCain-Feingold bill by July 4th, the day we celebrate the birth of our democracy. I pledge to you that I will continue to work with members of both parties to do this. I will be mustering more support out in the country, and that will be announced over the next few weeks, for this endeavor.
We have to use the present intense interest in this, as well as the controversy over fund-raising in the last election and all the publicity on it, as a spur to action. We cannot let it become what it is in danger of becoming, which is an excuse for inaction. And that again is something that I challenge all of you on. Do not let the controversy become an excuse to do nothing and to wallow around in it. Use it as a spur to changing the system because, until you change the system, you will continue to have controversies over the amount -- the sheer amount of money that is raised in these elections. . . .
I believe broadcasters who receive digital licenses should provide free air time for candidates, and I believe the F.C.C. should act to require free air time for candidates.
The telecommunications revolution can help to transform our system so that, once again, voters have the loudest voice in our democracy. Free time for candidates can help free our democracy from the grip of big money. I hope all of you will support that.
There are many ways that this could be done. Many of you here have put forward innovative plans. I believe that free time should be available to all qualified Federal candidates. I believe it should give candidates a chance to talk directly to the voters, without gimmicks or intermediaries.
Because campaign finance reform is so important, I believe it should be available especially to candidates who limit their own spending. It is clear under the Supreme Court decision that this can be done, and I believe that is how it should be done.
Candidates should be able to talk to voters based on the strength of their ideas, not the size of their pocketbooks. And all voters should know that no candidate is kept from running simply because he or she cannot raise enormous amounts of funds.
Last month the Vice President announced that we would create an independent advisory committee of experts, industry representatives, public-interest advocates, and others to recommend what steps to take. Before I came over here today, I signed an executive order creating that committee. The balanced panel I will appoint will advise me on ways we can move forward and make a judgment as to what the new public-interest obligations of broadcasters might be. But today, let us simply agree on the basic premise. In 1997, for broadcasters, serving the public should mean enhancing our democracy. . .
We know, we know, when we work to expand our democracy, when you give people a greater voice and advocates of all political views a firm platform upon which to stand, we are moving forward as a nation. By passing campaign finance reform, by renewing the compact between broadcasters and the public to better serve in this new era, we can do that again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (91%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (91%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CONFERENCE ON FREE TELEVISION AND POLITICAL REFORM; TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) POLITICS (91%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



266 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Offers Economic Plan for Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
President Clinton today unveiled details of his redevelopment plan for the nation's capital, a strategy focused on tax breaks for businesses, rather than individuals.
The major tax components of the Administration plan include $95 million in tax credits for investors and lenders to District of Columbia businesses, a 40 percent tax credit on the first $10,000 of wages in the first year of employment and a deduction of up to $20,000 a year for certain equipment costs for small businesses. 
 As part of the Administration's overall plan to revitalize the District, announced in January, the economic package includes the creation of an Economic Development Corporation to coordinate projects, issue bonds and keep track of $285 million in new Federal money for tax credits and tax incentives.
That money, Mr. Clinton said, would stop erosion of Washington's tax base and create programs that could be models for other distressed cities.
"Our challenge," Mr. Clinton said, "is to revitalize the city as the nation's capital, to improve the prospects of self-government to succeed, and to make it a place where people really want to live, to work, to do business."
The Administration plan does not cut the Federal income tax for the District's residents, a recovery strategy favored by many Congressional Republicans and the District's non-voting delegate to Congress, Eleanor Holmes Norton, a Democrat. Ms. Norton has introduced legislation that would cap Federal income tax for city residents at 15 percent, and some Republican lawmakers have predicted that a tax cut will probably be in the recovery package that clears Congress.
The proposals that Mr. Clinton outlined today will not necessarily be part of that final package.
While praising the President's efforts as "adding value" to efforts to solve District problems, Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d, the Virginia Republican who heads the District subcommittee of the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee, said the tax breaks would prove beneficial only if the city also succeeded in driving down crime rates, improving public schools and simplifying business regulations.
Peter Hans, a spokesman for Senator Lauch Faircloth, the North Carolina Republican who heads the Senate Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the District, said that Mr. Faircloth had not seen the details of Mr. Clinton's proposal but that he favored "management reform first for the District before throwing good money after bad."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (58%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (58%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; GOVERNORS (US); MEDICAID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAX LAW (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); MEDICAID (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); EROSION (54%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GRAMM, PHIL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (57%); TOM DAVIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



267 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Global Banks Offer a First: Forgiveness On Some Debt

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
In an effort to reduce the debt burden troubling some of the world's poorest nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will act soon to forgive some of the loans they have made to Uganda.
Uganda will be the first of about 20 countries that may be released from the obligation to repay, which forces developing countries into austerity measures that they say not only impede their efforts to rise out of poverty but also cause resentment among their citizens. 
 The bank's board approved Uganda's participation in the program on Monday, and the fund's board is expected to take similar action on Wednesday. Both institutions said they expected a final agreement to be negotiated with Uganda by next month to cut as much as $300 million from the nation's international debts of $3.4 billion.
The bank and the fund adopted the program in broad terms last fall, opening it only to nations that have achieved strong records of economic improvement despite suffering from crippling poverty.
The program's goal is to make economic growth more sustainable while bringing under control the fiscal cycle that sees international lenders pour more and more money into third-world economies and immediately take much of it back out again to pay for old loans.
The program's focus is on Africa, although some South American and Asian countries are also likely to get some relief. The bank and the fund will begin considering applications from Bolivia, Burkina Faso and possibly the Ivory Coast within the next few weeks, with approval likely by May or June, officials said.
Other countries will come up for consideration over the next year as the bank and the fund gain more experience and coordinate their efforts with other institutions like the African Development Bank and with individual creditor nations that are negotiating debt relief packages. Countries like Zaire that are undergoing civil war or other chaotic situations will not be considered until they achieve political and economic stability, officials said.
"The debt initiative is a cornerstone of our efforts on Africa," said David Lipton, the Clinton Administration's Assistant Treasury Secretary for International Affairs. "If we are helping them to reform, we have to be sure they aren't doomed by debt burdens."
Mr. Lipton said the United States was developing other international efforts to help Africa economically, and hoped to have them ready for the meeting in June of leaders of seven leading industrial nations in Denver. He declined to say what they were.
Independent poverty-relief organizations have long pressed the bank and the fund to write off some of their debts to poor nations. But the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which together play a dominant role in the economic affairs of most developing nations, insisted for years on strict fiscal rectitude, requiring countries to meet all of their financial responsibilities, including burdensome debt payments, in order to qualify for more aid.
But with poverty proving intractable in Africa and some other parts of the world the bank and the fund have significantly changed their approaches in the last several years.
They are now giving more weight to assuring a nation's long-term economic viability, in part through increased expenditures on education, health and other social needs.
Uganda was selected as the first beneficiary because it has undertaken stringent economic reforms prescribed by the bank and the fund, but nonetheless faces long-term financial problems, officials said.
Since coming to power 11 years ago after a civil war, President Yoweri Museveni has brought inflation and the Government's budget deficit under control, and restored economic growth based largely on exports of coffee. As the economy has stabilized, the Government has turned to improving social conditions, and by indicators like infant mortality has had some success, World Bank officials said.
Richard Kabonero, the economic affairs counsel at the Ugandan Embassy in Washington, said the savings from the debt relief program had been pledged to help finance a push to make primary education available to all families in Uganda and to improve health care.
"The debt relief initiative is extremely important to Uganda, and it could not have come at a better time," Mr. Kabonero said.
Last year, Uganda's total debt payments were $154 million, of which more than half went to international financial institutions, primarily the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, according to the fund.
The debt payments nearly equaled the nation's spending last year on education and health of $175 million, the fund said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); UGANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (53%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UGANDA; AFRICA (94%); UGANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); ASIA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); APPROVALS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



268 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expands Protection For Contract Farm Labor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Officials of the Labor Department announced new rules yesterday to increase protection for hundreds of thousands of farm workers by making it harder for farmers to avoid liability for violations of laws on wages and sanitation committed by contractors who supervise the farmers' employees.
The Government adopted the rules, which are opposed by growers, after farm workers groups complained that contractors who hire and manage workers for thousands of farms are often shadowy operators who fail to pay minimum wages or provide clean drinking water. 
 Farm workers groups assert that contractors have long had scant incentive to obey the law because they have often escaped financial penalties by arguing that they have no assets.
These groups also assert that farmers had little reason to make their contractors comply with the law because farmers often avoided responsibility by persuading courts that they were not the employers.
Federal officials estimated that 700,000 to a million of the nation's 2.5 million farm laborers, many migrant or seasonal employees, work for contractors. Contractors often recruit workers, hire and fire them, check alien work permits and drive workers to the fields.
Under the new rules, farmers who use labor contractors will more often be defined as joint employers, meaning that workers who have not been paid the minimum wage by contractors can demand payment from the farmers, who have deeper pockets than contractors.
"Contractors are directly responsible for many of the abuses the laborers endure," Marc Grossman, a spokesman for the United Farm Workers, said. "Growers basically use labor contractors as a legal fiction to avoid their legal and moral responsibilities."
By making farmers liable more often for contractors' violations, Labor Department officials say they hope to pressure farmers to do more to insure that contractors comply with laws on minimum wages, overtime, child labor and providing drinking water and toilets.
"We think these rules will improve the level of compliance in terms of farm workers' rights," John R. Fraser, acting administrator of the Labor Department's wage and hour division, said. "Farm workers in this country are among the most vulnerable, the most exploitable, the worst- paid workers."
The United Farm Workers had sought strict liability that would automatically make growers jointly liable for violations by their labor contractors. Although the new rules do not create strict liability -- they instead call for deciding joint liability case by case -- farm workers groups applauded the regulations.
But farm employers denounced them. "We don't see any instances where these rules will not hold a grower automatically liable," Sharon Hughes, executive vice president of the National Council of Agricultural Employers, said. "They're basically saying the grower is the guarantor of the wages that independent contractors pay their employees."
Bryan Little, director of government relations for the American Farm Bureau Federation, said the rules would not make it economically viable for farmers to use contractors, even though farmers often need them to recruit workers.
"Every other industry seems to have the ability to use labor contractors, but the Department of Labor doesn't think we should," he said.
The rules establish new criteria for government agencies and courts to weigh in determining whether farmers should be held jointly liable.
The old regulations provided for a control test: does the contractor or farmer hire and supervise workers? Under that test, courts usually found that farmers were not liable.
The new rules establish a more expansive control test, telling agencies and courts to also look at who writes the paychecks, controls wage levels and pays Social Security and workers' compensation. Other factors the new rules say must be weighed are whether a contractor's workers are "integral" to a farmer's operations and whether a contractor's employees work for one farmer or many farmers.
The new rules take effect in 30 days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; SANITATION; MINIMUM WAGE; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION FARM LABOR (96%); WAGES & SALARIES (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); FARM LABOR SERVICES (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (73%); CHILD LABOR (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



269 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Negotiating With Germany To Avoid C.I.A. Man's Expulsion

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
American and German officials are negotiating over the fate of an American intelligence officer whom Germany has scheduled for expulsion, officials of both countries said today.
The officer has not yet been expelled, as originally reported by the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel, and if the discussions go well, he may be allowed to return from vacation to finish his regular tour of duty, the officials said. They said his tour was to end soon in any case. 
 American officials said the American officer of the Central Intelligence Agency was not engaged in industrial or economic espionage or espionage aimed at Germany, as Der Spiegel reported, but was gathering information about third countries, which they did not identify.
Germany has numerous business and diplomatic contacts with countries about which Washington seeks information and wants to ostracize diplomatically, like Iran, Iraq and Libya.
American officials said the German Government had made no formal complaint to the American Government about the intelligence officer or his activities, but was using him to send "a blunt post-cold-war message" about keeping Bonn informed of American intelligence operations within its borders and reducing the numbers of American intelligence officers in Germany.
One German official reached by telephone today said that "this does not seem to be the first such case" of German complaints about American intelligence officers and that "the number of people doing such work for the United States in Germany remains very high," especially now that the Soviet Union has collapsed and Germany is reunited.
German officials said the role of Germany as an American outpost and ideological frontier, where East and West spied on each other and no one felt compelled to inform the German authorities, was now outdated.
The Americans have reduced the number of intelligence officers in the last few years, but not as much as Bonn would like. And the Germans have asked for more sharing of information, a request the Americans have responded to only in part. American officials said the C.I.A. was doing business in Germany much as it has done since 1945, while Bonn was demanding recognition of its new status as a closely allied democratic country that is a bedrock of the new Europe.
The officer was doing his regular "cover job" at the embassy in a normal way, and some say he is being used as an example by the Germans because he was near the end of his tour. The officer, who was not identified, was said to be out of the country on vacation when Der Spiegel released the text of its article on Saturday.
If the negotiations do not go well, an American official said, the officer will not return and his belongings will be packed for him.
Some officials cautioned that the C.I.A. was eager not to embarrass itself any further, especially while rancorous hearings are going on before the Senate Intelligence Committee on the nomination of Anthony Lake as Director of Central Intelligence.
While the third countries the intelligence officer was studying were not identified, Germany is regarded as a center for American intelligence-gathering on the so-called "rogue states" of the Middle East and North Africa.
The Germans are among the main proponents within the European Union of "constructive engagement" with Iran, while Washington has argued strenuously that it is a supporter of terrorism beyond its borders and is trying to develop weapons of mass destruction, and thus should be isolated.
German companies were prime suppliers of goods used by President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to build up his armed forces and stocks of chemical and biological weapons before the gulf war, American officials point out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); BONN, GERMANY (58%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); COLD WAR (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



270 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Rep. Flake Breaks With Party to Back School Vouchers

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Representative Floyd H. Flake of Queens is breaking with fellow Democrats to add his name as a sponsor of a Republican bill that would provide vouchers for children to attend private schools if they choose.
Mr. Flake's decision to co-sponsor the American Community Renewal Act, along with Representatives J. C. Watts of Oklahoma and James M. Talent of Missouri, is the culmination of a yearlong courtship by Republican officials. Mr. Flake decided to co-sponsor the bill after discussions two weeks ago with Republican leaders, including Speaker Newt Gingrich and the majority leader, Dick Armey, Mr. Flake's aides said. 
 In adding his name as a sponsor of the bill, which would also provide tax incentives to inner-city neighborhoods, Mr. Flake is taking a position that placed him squarely at odds with a number of his Democratic colleagues, including his fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who have ardently opposed using public money to help students attend private schools.
Mr. Flake, a six-term incumbent, is also the pastor of the Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church, a sprawling congregation that operates a private school and whose development arm has built large housing complexes in St. Albans, Queens.
Mr. Flake has long been critical of black elected officials and religious leaders, complaining that many of them are too dependent on government-financed social programs.
"The Congressman supports the bill because the poorer communities of America need a new model for rehabilitation, economically and educationally," said Dwayne Andrews, a spokesman for Mr. Flake.
"And the tax-based incentives and the school-choice help to enable communities to revitalize themselves," Mr. Andrews said. "Students in poorer communities should be able to get the same quality education that students in better-off communities do."
Mr. Flake could not be reached for comment yesterday. He was attending a funeral for one of the four children killed last week when a tree fell on their school bus on the way to the Allen Christian School, which is associated with Mr. Flake's church.
In his years in Congress, Mr. Flake has been successful at funneling Federal money to his district. His admirers and critics agree that much of Mr. Flake's success results from his willingness to befriend powerful Republicans. Prominent among his Republican allies is Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who once encouraged him to run for mayor.
Congresswoman Maxine Waters, a California Democrat who is head of the Congressional Black Caucus, said that Mr. Flake's position would create no strain within the caucus.
"We are not monolithic," she said. "We have divergent views on a lot of issues, from the balanced budget amendment to freedom of choice. This is simply an area where Floyd Flake has made a decision about what is in the interest of the people he represents."
The proposed measure represents an effort by House Republicans to pass an agenda aimed at solving some of the problems of large, urban areas, where the party has traditionally had little support. It includes a number of tax incentives, like the elimination of capital gains taxes for the sale of businesses held for more than five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; AMERICAN COMMUNITY RENEWAL ACT; PRIVATE SCHOOLS PRIVATE SCHOOLS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); SCHOOL CHOICE (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); RELIGION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); MAYORS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; FLAKE, FLOYD H (REPR); WATTS, J C (REPR); TALENT, JAMES (REPR) JEFF FLAKE (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); MAXINE WATERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



271 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1985 words

HEADLINE: Friends Helped Labor Nominee Move Up, Then Almost Brought Her Down

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
Nobody doesn't like Alexis Herman.
Ask childhood friends about President Clinton's choice to be the next Secretary of Labor, and they recall how the tough-minded black youngster from Mobile, Ala., faced down a Catholic prelate over racial discrimination. An admirer remembers when she lent her good dresses in the 1970's to black women interviewing for office jobs. Democrats marvel over her management of the party's 1992 convention, the one that helped pump up Bill Clinton's support in polls by 20 percentage points. 
 She has been known to give presents to co-workers after tough workweeks. One man who has known her for years says she briefly considered becoming a nun.
"People who like her really like her," says Lamond Godwin, who grew up across the street from Ms. Herman in the 1950's. "Most of the people she meets who become her friends remain her friends forever."
Which, lately, is her biggest problem.
The Senate Labor Committee investigated Ms. Herman for two and a half months before scheduling a hearing on her nomination for next Tuesday. The delay had less to do with her resume, a Horatio Alger story of pluck and hard work, than with the friends -- powerful, sometimes controversial Democrats -- she made on the way up.
Ms. Herman's confirmation now seems likely, but questions about those relationships had threatened her nomination and angered her supporters.
"Alexis is not somebody who's along for the ride," said Ricki Seidman, a White House aide during Ms. Herman's recent tenure as the Presidential liaison to business and the public. "She's a highly principled person."
Few dispute that. But the story of Ms. Herman's rise to influence, so intertwined with powerful friends, suggests how delicate the balance between politics and principle can be.
 
Religion and Politics Side by Side
Associates of Ms. Herman, 49, whom the White House declined to make available for an interview with her confirmation hearings coming up, describe a woman who learned early that skin color need not determine success.
Alexis M. Herman grew up in Mobile when white resistance to integration was peaking and Southern blacks were awakening to their political power. Her mother was a reading teacher. Her father, a mortician, was one of the first blacks elected to Alabama's Democratic Party organization, as a wardsman. Friends recall watching national political conventions in the Herman living room, her father providing commentary.
Religion most shaped Ms. Herman's youth. Her Roman Catholic parents shunned segregated state education and enrolled her in parochial schools -- still segregated, but employing white priests and nuns whose tutoring was colorblind.
"The nuns and the priests kept us from becoming racists," Mr. Godwin said. "The best people we knew were white -- people we spent the whole day with, who were the best examples of moral behavior. We had the Klan bombing churches, but we had these people on our side. It made it easy to understand that the problem was not us; the problem was the Klan."
It also enabled Ms. Herman to challenge racism. She once sneaked away from classmates at a school event, the annual Christ the King parade, to demand that a church official explain why black students never performed the celebration's symbolic highlight, crowning the Virgin Mary.
Ms. Herman's father once took her high school class on an unusual field trip: to a meeting of the Alabama Citizens Council, the front for the Ku Klux Klan.
"They started throwing things at us, popcorn boxes, cans, whatever," said Paulette Lewis, a classmate and still a close friend. " This is the kind of upbringing we had."
Most Pure Heart of Mary High School, where Ms. Herman was a class officer, produced extraordinary alumni in Ms. Herman's era: a Marine general and ambassador; an adviser to President Ronald Reagan; doctors; investment bankers like Mr. Godwin, a managing director of Smith Barney Inc.
Ms. Herman graduated from a Catholic university -- Xavier University of Louisiana, in New Orleans -- and returned to Mobile. She joined Catholic Charities in nearby Pascagoula, Miss., lobbying the city shipyard to give apprenticeships to unskilled black laborers.
 
Forging Friendships With the Influential
She was good at it, blessed with self-confidence and an ability to bridge gaps between blacks and whites. Mr. Godwin, then working on minority-employment programs for the Southern Regional Council, touted her to Ray Marshall, a member of the council's executive committee. Mr. Marshall brought her to Atlanta to work on a project to persuade corporations to hire college-educated black women for office jobs that had been filled exclusively by whites.
"I was amazed," Mr. Marshall said recently. "She did a better job than I would have."
Using a Federal grant, Mr. Marshall expanded Ms. Herman's project and merged it with a New York City nonprofit group, the Recruitment and Training Program. Working there was another Southerner, who had impressed Mr. Marshall on a project to integrate the construction industry. His name was Ernest G. Green.
Mr. Green was already well known. When Federal troops forcibly integrated schools in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, Mr. Green was among the first black students escorted into Central High. His coolness had made him something of a civil rights icon. He and Ms. Herman became fast friends.
Mr. Marshall and Mr. Godwin, meanwhile, had moved on to run a task force on the rural South whose directors included Georgia's Governor, Jimmy Carter. "We were having dinner at the initial meeting of the task force," Mr. Godwin said, "and Governor Carter said he was thinking about running for President. This was 1974. At the time, we all thought it was far-fetched."
But President Carter chose Mr. Marshall as his Secretary of Labor. Mr. Marshall named Mr. Green an assistant secretary, Mr. Godwin his head of national employment programs and Ms. Herman director of the women's bureau.
Mr. Godwin, who sketched out Ms. Herman's life in politics, said the three administered billions of dollars in grants much like those they had once received, and although Ms. Herman did not dispense money, she became a top adviser to Mr. Green and Mr. Marshall.
They also became political figures, if minor ones. Ms. Herman had worked on the Atlanta mayoral campaigns of Maynard H. Jackson and Andrew Young. She was also an early supporter of Marion S. Barry Jr., and came to know Ronald H. Brown, a National Urban League executive and Democratic Party figure.
At a 1980 testimonial dinner in Mobile, she met another rising political figure: the Rev. Jesse Jackson, then the head of Operation PUSH, the group that targeted companies with poor minority-employment practices.
After Mr. Carter lost the 1980 election, Mr. Green and Mr. Herman formed a firm that advised businesses on marketing and minority-hiring issues.
Within months, Republican critics accused Mr. Green of shoveling almost 300 Federal contracts and grants to cronies in the last months of Mr. Carter's term, including contracts to the Recruitment and Training Program and Operation PUSH. They also accused Green-Herman & Associates, the new consulting firm, of cashing in by obtaining subcontracts from some of those same cronies.
The Labor Department, the Senate and a United State Attorney's office all investigated. Though some Federal employees testified to irregularities, others called the complaints trumped up. No charges were filed. Mr. Godwin and Mr. Marshall, who now holds an endowed chair in economics and public affairs at the University of Texas, call the affair a political smear.
In fact, friends of Ms. Herman and Mr. Green now say, Green-Herman & Associates did benefit later from Jesse Jackson, who sometimes recommended their consulting firm to companies targeted by Operation PUSH. But that, they say, reflected not favor-trading but Mr. Jackson's growing friendship with the two and his confidence in their firm.
 
Building a Machine As Fortunes Rise
Ms. Herman's political and financial fortunes rose in tandem. In 1982, she supported Mr. Barry's re-election campaign for mayor of Washington. In 1984, she worked for Mr. Jackson's Presidential campaign. About the same time, the developer of a Pennsylvania Avenue tract near the Capitol made Ms. Herman a partner, giving her 3.3 percent of an office-and-condominium complex for little or no money.
Then and now, such sweetheart deals are a common way of satisfying the affirmative-action demands of government boards that hand out contracts. Ms. Herman later sold part of her share and recently valued the remainder at $500,000 to $1 million.
Mr. Green sold his interest in the consulting firm to Ms. Herman in the mid-1980's and entered investment banking. In 1988, Ms. Herman joined Mr. Jackson's second Presidential campaign and found herself working with Mr. Brown, by now a prominent lawyer and lobbyist who was organizing Mr. Jackson's convention.
George Bush's triumph in 1988 left the Democratic alliance in tatters. Mr. Brown sought the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee, and won. Ms. Herman became his deputy and, in 1992, the organizer of the party's national convention.
Together, they built an impressive financial and political machine. Just as in Pascagoula and Atlanta, Ms. Herman's deftness at organizing blacks, whites, rich and poor around a common purpose stood out.
She and Mr. Brown also came under attack for what U.S. News and World Report called the lavish use of perks like limousines, private jets and a Central Park apartment rented during planning for the 1992 convention, held in New York City.
To some others' dismay, Ms. Herman continued to run her consulting firm while running Democratic politics. In one case, her firm was paid $600,000 to advise the winning bidder for a $750 million Federal office project near the White House, a plum fought over at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. Critics later complained that she acted as a political fixer in the competition, an accusation the White House has denied.
When Mr. Clinton became President, Mr. Brown became Commerce Secretary. Ms. Herman went to the White House as head of the office of public liaison -- in effect, the grass-roots organizer of support for Administration policies.
The job was ostensibly nonpolitical, but by its nature, it has almost inevitably taken on a political cast. This time, that was doubly true: the office helped draft Mr. Clinton's plans to win over ethnic groups in his 1996 campaign. Ms. Herman's deputy ran a group that targeted Asian-Americans. Another aide worked on wooing the Jewish vote.
Among other campaign duties, Ms. Herman supervised the strategy to win black voters. Her second in command was an old friend, Mr. Green, who by then was a friend of the President's, too -- and one of the Democratic Party's biggest soft-money fund-raisers. He also promoted business deals, including ventures with another Arkansan and Presidential friend, Charles Yah Ling Trie.
All those roles converged in the 1996 campaign. Mr. Green appeared at some of the now-infamous White House coffees with major party donors. In February 1996, he and Mr. Trie arrange for attendance at one coffee by one of their business prospects, Wan Jung, an executive in an arms-export business identified as a weapons smuggling front for the Chinese military.
Ms. Herman also attended some coffees; her office invited a Federal banking regulator to one such session, attended by big donors from the banking industry.
Ms. Herman has insisted that she played no part in that invitation, and that her work for Mr. Clinton's re-election was properly performed on personal time.
Senate investigators have since reviewed that and the rest of Ms. Herman's past. After long thought, they seem agreed that nothing there bars her confirmation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexis M. Herman, the nominee for Secretary of Labor, is known for being well liked by enduring friends. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOBILE, AL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); MOBILE, AL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; HERMAN, ALEXIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



272 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: At Top School for Gifted, I.Q. Test Is Still the First Measure

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
The I.Q. test, the tool that the New York City Schools Chancellor wants public schools to abandon as the primary measure of a child's eligibility for gifted and talented programs, remains firmly in place at the city's most acclaimed school for academically gifted students.
Hunter College Elementary School, which is publicly financed but administered by Hunter College, a part of the City University system, rather than the Board of Education, relies on the I.Q. test to screen out the majority of its huge pool of 4- and 5-year-old applicants. Those with the highest I.Q.'s are then evaluated based on factors like problem-solving and creative thinking. 
 Hunter administrators readily acknowledge that I.Q. tests cannot adequately measure the "giftedness" of every child, but they say that given the school's focus on academic excellence and the tough competition for its 48 spaces each year -- only one out of 25 applicants gets in -- they need an empirical way to winnow the applicant pool. The I.Q. test has proven a reliable first standard at Hunter despite its acknowledged limitations, officials say.
"I've said to myself, 'Is there a better method?' " said Polly Smith Breland, director of admissions. "I don't think there is a better method right now."
Over the last two decades, research has shown the I.Q. test to be a good gauge for some children, but not all. Many students from poor or immigrant backgrounds do not score as high as children from middle-class backgrounds and native speakers of English. Children are more likely to do well when their parents read to them frequently, expose them to large vocabularies and take them to stimulating places like museums.
As a model for gifted programs across the country and a center of research on teaching gifted students, what happens at Hunter can have reverberations nationally. Hunter's continuing use of I.Q. testing even though administrators recognize its flaws underlines the complexity of assessing children for gifted programs, with their limited spaces and promise of challenging, high-caliber instruction, which, in turn, can lead to greater college and career opportunities.
These concerns are especially sharp in urban school districts, where public schools try to insure equal opportunities for immigrants and underprivileged children, while not neglecting the needs of middle-class families. Citing such concerns two weeks ago, Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said he wanted to reduce the reliance on I.Q., or intelligence quotient, scores in choosing students for gifted programs. Many public schools now use the I.Q. test as Hunter does -- as a first hurdle children have to clear before they can be evaluated in other ways.
"I think there are lots of children, children of color, children whose first language is not English, who don't necessarily get access to this," Dr. Crew said. "I think that there have been any number of those kinds of tests that have never really, in my judgment, been the determinant of true giftedness."
Hunter officials say they are sensitive to the issue of which students they might be excluding. The school, long a national model for other gifted programs, tries to choose an ethnically diverse group from the children who score high on the I.Q. test -- This year the minimum was 132 points.
Officials say they are also trying to broaden the range of children who apply, to increase the odds that more children from disadvantaged backgrounds will qualify for admission; the school charges no tuition.
Still, the school stands by the I.Q. test -- it uses the Stanford-Binet 4. Hunter officials say there are few ways of quantifying the skills of very young children, who lack the report cards, teacher evaluations and test results of older students. They add that many parents can accept rejection based on a test score more readily than rejection based on more subjective evaluations.
Administrators note that unlike some other gifted programs, which may test for leadership qualities, artistic talent or spatial skills, Hunter's curriculum is based on academic excellence only.
"We believe that there are a lot more gifted children than we can admit," said Dr. Rena F. Subotnik, a Hunter College professor and a consultant to the elementary and high schools. "Our school is a school for academically gifted kids. Throwing all different kinds of talents together isn't always the best thing to do."
Even strong critics of the I.Q. test are not demanding that Hunter change. They say Hunter's system may be valid and even necessary, given the small number of spaces, the type of program and the extraordinary competition.
Rather, some say the flood of applicants to Hunter reflects a scarcity of opportunities for many of the city's gifted and talented children in the public school system. And they say that unlike Hunter, the public school system should be obligated to serve the needs of children with many kinds of talents.
"I think there is a space and place for something like Hunter," said Dr. Joseph S. Renzulli, the director of the federally funded National Research Center on the Gifted and Talented who believes in screening for characteristics like creativity and a child's motivation on specific tasks. "But we need to have a place for high-end learning in every school."
Dr. Crew said he wants more gifted programs and wants districts to use multiple measures of giftedness, measures he has not yet specified, but which could include I.Q.
Hunter College elementary and high school programs, located on the Upper East Side, offer everything from intensive chess to a mathematics laboratory. Five-year-olds can research independent projects on subjects like Italian Renaissance art and pharmacology.
Children are admitted to the elementary school only in nursery school and kindergarten, and only if they live in Manhattan. The high school automatically accepts Hunter elementary school children but fills the remaining 200 spaces through a competitive admissions process for sixth graders in all five boroughs who do well on citywide math and reading tests and Hunter's entrance exam.
The I.Q. test is used only to screen elementary school applicants, who must first score in the 97th or 98th percentile on the national I.Q. rating system. In the most recent round, 1,183 applicants took the I.Q. test and 305 made the 98th percentile I.Q. cut-off, a score of about 132.
The finalists are invited to Round 2, where, in groups of eight, they are evaluated on how they solve problems, think creatively, learn tasks and respond to complex directions.
In picking the final 48 students, Hunter officials say they strive for diversity. They say they do not use a formula, except to make sure that they choose an equal number of boys and girls, and the selection committee does not see the applicants' names.
Officials say that once they decide which applicants performed the best in Round 2, they try to choose children from different racial and ethnic backgrounds. They say they may sometimes select a child who is several months younger than the others because they are impressed by the child's precociousness.
And they may also factor in whether the child has a physical disability or whether the child comes from a poor household, as measured by whether the family's income was low enough to qualify for a waiver of Hunter's $165 test and application fee.
Of those chosen for next September's classes, 26 are white, 9 are black, 4 are Asian, 5 are Hispanic and 4 are listed by their parents as "other." Only one is from a low-income family. This year, 67 of the 1,183 applicants received a waiver for the application and test fees, and of them, only two made the I.Q. cut-off.
Dr. Anthony D. Miserandino, the director of both the Hunter elementary school and the high school, said: "Clearly, people who have income are going to be able to expose children to more opportunities, whether it is a trip to the museum or a computer in your home. To the degree to which economics and the educational background of parents are tied to race, you're going to see outcomes that reflect that."
Ms. Smith Breland, the director of admissions, who is black and attended Hunter College High School in the 1960's, said Hunter's admissions pool necessarily reflects the "problems around race and ethnicity in this city."
"I don't think you can divorce those problems and how children are raised in this city from how children are going to do," she said.
One of Dr. Crew's concerns is that students from poor families, many of them immigrants, are unaware of gifted and talented programs. Hunter officials say they have been trying to expand their pool of applicants by advertising on radio and visiting or sending fliers to churches, libraries, day care centers and Head Start programs in low-income Manhattan neighborhoods. Last fall, they held weekend classes for children and parents from an East Harlem day care center.
Ms. Smith Breland said that when she or her staff recruit, they try to suggest low-cost ways people can enrich their children's education.
"We tell them that 'When your child asks a lot of questions, that's not just annoying, it's good,' " Ms. Smith Breland said. "Or when you talk to your child, point out the colors in the room and different shapes. That may not help them for Hunter right away, but maybe three or four years from now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children in the gifted program at Hunter College Elementary School, which uses an I.Q. test to select 4- and 5-year-old candidates from Manhattan for admission. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUNTER COLLEGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: HUNTER COLLEGE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; INTELLIGENCE TESTS GIFTED EDUCATION (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); FAMILY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; CREW, RUDOLPH F (CHANCELLOR)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



273 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
King and Israeli Leader Exchange Forceful Letters
King Hussein of Jordan wrote Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a personal and forceful letter saying that he could not continue as the Israeli's partner and friend. The King accused Mr. Netanyahu of decisions amounting to continued deliberate humiliation of the Palestinians. In a sharp reply, Mr. Netanyahu countered that he was reviving, not killing, the peace efforts. A1 

Mr. Netanyahu sought a reprieve from the political fire at home in Moscow, where he was making his first state visit to Russia. The trip focused on improving economic ties and courting Russia's newly assertive Jewish community. A8
 
Reducing Poor Nations' Debts
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will soon forgive some loans made to about 20 of the poorest nations, beginning with Uganda, in an effort to reduce the debt burden plaguing them. The agencies said they expected to slash as much as $300 million from Uganda's international debts of $3.4 billion. Uganda is the first country to be considered for the program. A5
 
Rebels Gain in Albania
More towns in southern Albania fell to anti-government rebels. In Kucove, about 60 miles south of the capital, Tirana, armed local people captured an air base and more than a dozen MIG fighter jets. As the turmoil sped closer to Tirana, the Embassy of Italy -- an ally of Albania's President -- evacuated nonessential staff, as did France and Germany. A10
 
French AIDS Charges Fizzle
France's top prosecutor recommended dropping charges against a former Prime Minister and two other officials in the infection of 1,300 French hemophiliacs with AIDS-tainted blood products in 1985. The prosecutor cited a lack of evidence. The scandal broke in 1990 with revelations that health officials had used blood supplies known to be contaminated with the AIDS virus rather than purchase American technology to treat or test the blood. (AP)
 
Iraq Aid Plan Delayed
A draft United Nations report said humanitarian aid to Iraqis was unlikely to be distributed within the six months allotted under an agreement allowing Iraq to sell some of its oil despite the sanctions against it. The report cited delays in getting food and other supplies to Iraq. (Reuters)
 
U.S. Calls for Solution in Zaire
The United States renewed a call for a political solution to Zaire's civil war, but continued to rule out an American role in a proposed military intervention force. The State Department spokesman, Nicholas Burns, said that American officials would continue to discuss a multinational force, but that the United States believed the political course being pursued at the moment was the right one. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A14-21
 
Broad Fund-Raising Inquiry Is Approved by Senate
The Senate unanimously approved a broad investigation into White House and Congressional fund-raising practices. The Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott, had wanted a narrower inquiry focused on President Clinton but was thwarted by Democrats and moderate Republicans. A1
 
The President recommended that broadcasters be required to give free air time to political candidates -- reducing, presumably, their need to raise money -- in exchange for new licenses the broadcasters will need to provide digital high-definition television. A1
 
Justice Department officials said the F.B.I. was intemperate and possibly misleading when it contradicted Mr. Clinton's description of its warning about possible illegal campaign donations from China. The officials said the F.B.I. had indeed placed restrictions on who could be told about the warning. A21
 
Hearings Start for Lake
Anthony Lake defended his integrity and promised to "renovate" the nation's spy services as Senate hearings began on his nomination to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. The head of the Senate committee sought to link Mr. Lake to the imbroglio involving money and politics at the White House, but Mr. Lake said he had nothing to do with it. A1
 
Army Sex Charges Recanted
Five female recruits said Army investigators had coerced them into accusing male noncommissioned officers at Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland of sexual misconduct. The women, who spoke at a news conference sponsored by the N.A.A.C.P., said they had been threatened with retaliation if they failed to make the accusations. At least 50 female recruits have made charges that include, among other things, 27 rapes; 5 sergeants face courts-martial as a result. A14
 
4 Dead in Detroit Bank Robbery
A man with a shotgun killed three people and wounded two at a bank branch in Detroit before police officers shot and killed him as he fled. Witnesses described the gunman as a heartless man who forced hostages to recite the Lord's Prayer before he shot them. A14
 
Plan for Washington Is Detailed
President Clinton made public details of his plan to aid the nation's fiscally strapped capital. The plan focuses on offering tax breaks to businesses rather than cutting the Federal income tax for residents of the District of Columbia, which local politicians and Congressional Republicans support. A18
 
2 Indicted in Union Case
A Federal grand jury in Atlanta indicted two top officials of the world's largest Coca-Cola bottling company on charges that they bribed a worker in an effort to undermine a unionization campaign. The two officials were each charged with five felony counts and could face up to 25 years in prison if convicted. A14 
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Poll Finds New Yorkers (Especially Whites) Upbeat
New Yorkers are more upbeat about their city than they have been in nearly a decade, a New York Times poll found. But black and Hispanic residents are less so than whites. A1
 
Extension on Food Stamps
Tens of thousands of legal immigrants in New York State who faced the loss of food stamps next month under the new Federal welfare law will get a reprieve of almost five months. B1
 
No Welfare Workers in Subway
The Transit Authority said it would hire about 100 people to clean the subways, rather than wait for the Giuliani administration to supply welfare recipients to do the work. The authority had reached a deal with its union to let the welfare recipients work, but Mayor Giuliani opposed the plan. B3
 
T.W.A. Missile Theory Returns
The Government tried to refute a new round of reports that said a missile brought down T.W.A. Flight 800 in July. The top F.B.I. agent in New York City said claims made in a 57-page article scheduled for publication in Paris Match magazine had been investigated and proved unfounded. Officials said a substance that a California newspaper described as missile fuel residue was probably glue from the seats. B2
 
Hasidic Village Settles Case
The Hasidic village of Kiryas Joel, N.Y., reached a settlement with dissidents who had accused village officials of religious persecution that at times turned violent. The dissidents will be paid $300,000. Hasidic leaders around the world had pressured the village to strike a deal that would let the village's grand rabbi avoid testifying in Federal court. B6
 
HEALTH C8
 
Problem in Anesthesia in Labor
Women who had epidural anesthesia during labor were more likely to have fevers and, as a result, their babies were more likely to undergo painful tests and sometimes treatment for possible infection, a study found. C8
 
EDUCATION B7
 
SPORTS B8-13
 
LIVING C1-7
 
ARTS C9-16
 
Opera Singer's Exile Ends
The tenor Neil Shicoff will return to the Metropolitan Opera stage tomorrow night after a seven-year exile in Europe. He had been forced to leave the United States to avoid legal action growing out of his divorce. C9
 
 BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D23
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Courage, Mexico, health coverage for poor children.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd, William Safire.
 
Chronicle A19
 
Crossword C15
 
Weather B14

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (54%); 

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (93%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JORDAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (70%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (93%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JORDAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (70%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CORRECTION STORIES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); SCANDALS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (69%); HEMOPHILIA (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (63%); VIRUSES (50%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



274 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Optimism in New York, But Race and Class Affect Views

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
New Yorkers are more upbeat about their city than they have been in nearly a decade, with their views of crime, the economy and the future suggesting that many have discarded the grim self-image that gripped them just four years ago, according to the latest New York Times poll.
But the poll presents New York as a city divided by race, ethnicity and economic class. While black and Hispanic residents are also more optimistic than they were four years ago, they are notably less satisfied than whites with the state of the city. 
 The Times poll, conducted at the start of this month, points to a relative hopefulness that appears to be taking hold in parts of New York at the start of this mayoral election year.
In one measure of how sharply attitudes have changed, half the people surveyed said that even if they had the option to move away, they would not leave New York.
That was the highest percentage that response to that question received in more than a decade, though again, whites were more willing to remain in New York than were other groups.
From a political perspective, the Times poll contains much good news for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, though it pointed to some possible vulnerabilities in his pursuit of a second term. Most New Yorkers tend to think the city's economy is doing well now relative to four years ago, though economic indicators show that the recovery is centered mostly on Wall Street, and they feel safer on their streets than they did when David N. Dinkins was Mayor.
Many are inclined to credit Mr. Giuliani with at least some of these improvements, and not to blame him for some of the city's problems.
On the other hand, the level of dissatisfaction with Mr. Giuliani among blacks and, to a lesser extent, among women and Hispanic residents, could pose a problem for the Mayor, especially if he faces a strong Democratic opponent. The two leading candidates vying for the Democratic nomination are a woman and a Hispanic politician: Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, and Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President.
The Times poll was conducted from March 1 through March 6. There were 1,397 adult New Yorkers, living in the five boroughs, who were questioned by telephone. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
When similar questions were posed to New Yorkers by The Times and WCBS-TV in October 1993, about a month before Mr. Giuliani defeated Mr. Dinkins in the last mayoral election, the city's mood appeared to be much more pessimistic than that found in this poll. Then, and by sizable margins, people described New York as less safe, more economically debilitated and more racially polarized than it had been when Mr. Dinkins took office in 1989.
By contrast, in this latest poll, 43 percent called the city safer than it was four years ago. In 1993, only 13 percent said they thought the city was safer than it had been in 1989. In this poll, 59 percent described the city economy as good, compared with 32 percent in 1993. And 35 percent described race relations as good, compared with 24 percent four years ago.
Still, New Yorkers have reservations about the city and its Mayor. Voters are increasingly worried about the state of the schools, with one in five voters saying that education should be the top priority of the next Mayor. One in four voters said that crime should be the next Mayor's top priority.
Even more New Yorkers, 31 percent, cited crime as their chief complaint about living in the city. The drop in crime rates notwithstanding, the results suggest that the issue remains a burning one, though not as critical as in 1985, when half the respondents cited crime as the worst thing about living in New York.
And while there are more New Yorkers who present themselves as optimistic about the city's long-term future than there were at the end of Mr. Dinkins's term, they are still outnumbered by New Yorkers who are pessimistic.
Further, the Times Poll indicates that Mr. Giuliani governs a city stratified by race, class and sex. The upbeat view of the city and its Mayor is driven by respondents who, like Mr. Giuliani, are white, male and upper-middle or upper class. Women and lower-income respondents were far less likely to say that the economy had improved, or that New York was safer, or that Mr. Giuliani was doing a good job.
That disparity is even more stark when it comes to race and ethnic background. Whites disagreed with black and Hispanic respondents on nearly every question in the poll, from questions about Mr. Giuliani's performance to the caliber of New York City drinking water. (Whites rated it better.) The one exception was in attitudes towards crime, with 39 percent of whites, 32 percent of blacks and 21 percent of Hispanic respondents agreeing that reducing crime was the best thing Mr. Giuliani had done as Mayor.
By any measure, this public mood seems likely to have a significant effect on shaping the mayoral election, and the initial indications are that Mr. Giuliani will be the beneficiary. Of those questioned, 54 percent approved of the way Mr. Giuliani was handling his job, and 52 percent described his first term as "mainly a success." By contrast, Mr. Dinkins never achieved a job approval rating above 47 percent.
And while 46 percent said Mr. Giuliani had "performed his job as Mayor well enough to deserve re-election," 48 percent said it was "time to give a new person a chance," indicating -- theoretically, at least -- that an opponent could win next November. But even here, Mr. Giuliani remained relatively strong: when the same question was asked about Mr. Dinkins in the middle of his term in 1991, only 25 percent of the people surveyed said he deserved re-election.
One particularly striking measure of Mr. Giuliani's standing came when people were asked to name the worst thing Mr. Giuliani had done. Nearly half were unable to provide an answer, or responded by saying "nothing."
That said, there were a few glimmers of hope -- if dim ones -- for the four Democrats hoping to run against Mr. Giuliani: Ms. Messinger, Mr. Ferrer, the Rev. Al Sharpton and Sal F. Albanese, a City Councilman from Brooklyn. The Times poll suggests that while voters approve of Mr. Giuliani's job performance, they do not like him very much, and are almost equally apt to describe him as "abrasive" as "tough."
In expressing concern about education, 60 percent faulted Mr. Giuliani for not paying enough attention to the issue. Mr. Giuliani's opponents -- who presumably have been looking at their own polls -- have already begun to emphasize education, as, indeed, has the Mayor lately.
In addition, women are not as satisfied with the condition of the city, particularly when it comes to crime, or with Mr. Giuliani; 49 percent approved of how he was handling his job, compared with 59 percent of men. That disparity might prove significant if Democrats nominate Ms. Messinger.
Similarly, Mr. Giuliani also appears to have some problems with Hispanic voters. Mr. Giuliani defeated Mr. Dinkins in 1993 with 38 percent of the Hispanic vote, and just 42 percent of Hispanic residents questioned for the poll said they approved of the way Mr. Giuliani was handling his job. Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, is of Puerto Rican descent, and has already begun a quiet campaign appealing directly to Hispanic voters, including a series of radio advertisements that are to be broadcast on Spanish-language radio stations in New York starting this week.
And Mr. Giuliani's standing with blacks remains low, as it always has been; 34 percent approved the way he had handled his job. That suggests that any Democratic candidate would benefit by encouraging black turnout in November. Mr. Sharpton is black, but is widely viewed as unlikely to win the nomination.
Beyond its implications for the mayoral race, there were two overriding themes to the poll. The first was the improved feelings New Yorkers have about their city. The second was the latest evidence of political polarization among difference races and ethnic groups.
The two areas that most accounted for New Yorkers' improved feelings about the city were crime and the economy. In terms of the economy, 59 percent of New Yorkers now rate it as good.
And in another sign of a favorable mood about New York, the percentage of New Yorkers who reported that they or a member of their family had been a victim of a crime over the last year fell from 27 percent when Mr. Dinkins was Mayor, to 17 percent now.
All this has combined to produce the upbeat view of the city that emerges from the poll results. Thirty-four percent of respondents said life in New York was generally better, with 33 percent saying worse and 29 percent saying the same. By comparison, four years ago, only 10 percent said the state of the city was better than it had been when Mr. Dinkins took office, with 60 percent saying worse.
The disparity in racial and ethnic views is particularly evident regarding the economy and crime. While 67 percent of whites in the poll said the economy was good, only 55 percent of blacks and 47 percent of Hispanic residents shared that opinion, an indication that whatever economic prosperity there is in New York is concentrated in certain pockets. Similarly, while 54 percent of whites said the city was safer today than it was under Mr. Dinkins, only 30 percent of blacks and 37 percent of Hispanic respondents agreed.
But on no subject is the racial disparity greater than on Mr. Giuliani himself. His relatively high standing in the city is largely a function of his popularity among whites: 71 percent of them in the poll approved of his handling of the job as Mayor, compared with just 34 percent of blacks and 42 percent of Hispanic residents. Similarly, 69 percent of whites called Mr. Giuliani's term as a success, compared with 33 percent among blacks and 37 percent among Hispanic residents.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times Poll is based on telephone interviews with 1,397 adults, conducted March 1 through March 6 in all parts of New York City. Interviews were in either English or Spanish.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a list of all city exchanges. They were chosen to assure that each area in the city was represented in proportion to its population. The telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated at random to be the respondent for the survey.
The results were weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to borough, race, sex, age, and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points either way from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult New Yorkers.
For smaller groups, the potential sampling error is larger. For example, it is plus or minus 4 percentage points for whites, 5 percentage points for blacks and 5 percentage points for Hispanic New Yorkers.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New Yorkers Look at the City and the Mayor" shows results of a poll conducted regarding views of New York City and views of Mayor Giuliani, broken down by household income, race and gender of the respondents. (pg. B4)
 
Graphs: "Things Are Looking Up . . ." shows results of a poll conducted asking the question: "In the last four yerars, do you think life in New York City has generally got better, got worse or stayed the same?" Figures are for May 1993 and March 1997. ". . .But not in Equal Measures" shows how different groups of New Yorkers answered the above question in March 1997. (Source: POlls by the New York Times and WCBS-TV News)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (50%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



275 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: CAPITOL SKETCHBOOK;
Confirmation Hearings Start With Confrontational Tone

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11

 BODY:
The opening hours of the long-awaited hearing about state secrets and political money fell well short of a full-fledged "Borking" -- the political character combat that habitues anticipate.
Still, after the introductions and felicities, after the Red Sox jokes and the prepared opening statements, it only took five brief questions before the chairman of the Senate intelligence committee was somewhat gleefully asking Anthony Lake, the nominee for Director of Central Intelligence, about security warnings to the Clinton Administration that China might have been trying to funnel money last year to Federal candidates, the President included. 
 In an instant, attention was being fully paid in Room 216 of the Senate Hart Office Building, the arena of the now departed Whitewater hearings of the 1995-96 political cycle. Even questions about the nation's readiness to anticipate nuclear attack were secondary to the main question of China money possibly being directed at polluting the American campaign pot.
"This was your watch, was it not?" asked Senator Richard C. Shelby, the committee chairman.
He smiled tightly as he warmed to the task and sought to press Mr. Lake on his duties as the President's national security adviser last year, when the F.B.I. warnings about China reached White House security underlings but somehow not President Clinton.
"Why were you not informed of such a dynamite piece of news?" Senator Shelby demanded, finally reaching an easy synch with the season's dominant capital topic, suspicions and allegations of high scandal in big-money campaign financing.
Mr. Lake, a man whose career in security and intelligence is intimately linked to anticipating tough questions, was hardly taken aback. He hewed to a mood of courtly openness and replied that he, like the President, had never been told by subordinates of the F.B.I.'s concern which, nevertheless, had managed to reach several other political candidates in Congress directly.
"I should have been informed, and the President should have been informed," Mr. Lake answered as the hearing took off on a two-week schedule that one Democrat warned might be a ritual "bludgeoning" and "trial by ordeal." But Senator Shelby insisted that it would be a full and fair airing of the nomination.
Even when he was a Democrat, Senator Shelby, of Alabama, never was one to shy from taking on the Clinton Administration. "The tax man cometh," he had complained with an easy needle of one early Clinton budgetary plan, in 1993. When Vice President Al Gore was dispatched to bring the Senator aboard, Mr. Shelby had television cameras waiting and aced him with further sound-bite denunciations of Clinton economics.
With that, the Senator's Rubicon was only an election away, and he switched parties on the day after the Republicans took control of both houses of Congress in 1994. The Administration knew then that an ambitious new antagonist was in the majority with his seniority intact and his appetite for confrontation keen.
As the hearing opening, the Senator held the gavel and stayed attentive to nuance as he surveyed a large audience for the hearing. His reference in his prepared statement to the "business of spying" was altered in delivery to "the business of intelligence operations." The spoken mantra of the opening round was not about politicians' endless need of money but rather the nation's higher need of unvarnished truth, unvarnished facts, unvarnished intelligence, with the adjective invoked every 15 minutes on average by assorted speakers.
The Democrats had Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska on guard as vice chairman, and he sought to bring some early lightness to the proceedings. "Are Louis Freeh and the President going to strip to the waist and duke it out?" he asked, referring to the F.B.I. Director. He smiled in referring to the contradictory accounts of the China warning offered by the White House and the F.B.I. His larger point was about the need for getting past the headline moment and focusing on national policy.
No one seemed more willing to move on than Mr. Lake, who first had to stress for Senator Shelby that he had not subsequently questioned national security aides about the confusion over the F.B.I. warning because he did not want to create any "impression of my trying to influence them."
Senator Shelby looked pleased that the topic was fully on the table, and he promised to return to it in detail. The proceeding moved on to other questions, including where Mr. Lake rated himself on a "comfort scale" of 1 ("passive") to 10 ("hysterical") about the dangers of nuclear weapons spreading to third-world rogue nations.
The intelligence specialist thought a moment and managed to drive thoughts of China money briefly from the room.
"Nine," he tersely replied. Then, before the hearing adjourned, Mr. Lake added that the probability was considerably less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; LAKE, ANTHONY RICHARD SHELBY (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



276 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Downstate Media Move

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Web Genesis, a new media company based in Ithaca, N.Y., is moving to New York City.
The move, to West 21st Street in Manhattan's Silicon Alley, means the transfer of 20 employees. The company also plans to hire up to 10 more employees by year's end, said Todd Krizelman, chief executive officer of Web Genesis. 
 The move follows IBM's recent decision to move part of its Internet operation from its Armonk headquarters in Westchester County. Like IBM, Web Genesis decided that the move was too good to pass up because of business opportunities.
"The concept of telecommuting, it only goes so far," said Mr. Krizelman, who credited the New York City Economic Development Corporation with acting as a "concierge" in making the move even more enticing. "We want to be closer to advertisers, and we want closer access to talent."
Web Genesis operates an on-line site called "The Globe," which functions as a community forum, with chat rooms, personal ads, discussion groups and other services. The site claims more than 525,000 registered users each month, a high number in the business. DAVID W. CHEN

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (57%); IBMA (AMS) (57%); IBM (NYSE) (57%); IBM (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334119 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WEB GENESIS INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEB GENESIS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ITHACA (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS TELECOMMUTING (88%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CHAT ROOMS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997



277 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
On His Farm He Grew Some Pot, Ee-eye Ee-eye-o

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
Wherever he looks, Peter Jennings, our guide to tonight's all-American garden tour, finds marijuana plants being tended with diligence, affection and hope. He provides tips along the way on proper cultivation (plenty of light, not too much water), but, as the program's title, "Pot of Gold," hints, his interest is less in horticulture than in the economics of what he says may be America's biggest cash crop.
In the Pacific Northwest, he is told, for an investment of less than $2,000, the indoor gardener can make $200,000 a year tax free. Twenty-something entrepreneurs have joined together in this cottage, or ranch house, industry. One of them comments that whoever it was who said money doesn't grow on trees didn't know "what trees to look at." We also meet the area's Johnny Potseed, who is on a mission to subvert laws against marijuana. 
 A Midwestern couple who describe themselves as Rush Limbaugh Republicans ("We're kind of Main Street U.S.A., apple pie, mom and pop. . . . We're not hippies.") are doing their growing in their basement, using seeds selected at an Amsterdam marijuana trade fair, the Cannabis Cup. (Mr. Jennings reports that you can save yourself a trip and order on the Internet.) So far the non-hippies haven't made any money; maybe fans of Mr. Limbaugh are green-thumb-challenged.
And in Georgia, the program focuses on a county of farmers who are trying to beat hard times by producing a crop known for high times. Unlike corn, a grower explains, marijuana has a seller's market. The local sheriff seems to have been elected on a no-see, no-smell platform. "And how tough were you on marijuana growers after you were elected sheriff?" inquires Mr. Jennings. The sheriff answers, "Uh."
Although the heads of growers are either cut off by the camera or concealed in shadows to avoid implicating the guilty, none seem to be hopheads. They are just out to make a dishonest dollar. One young woman says, "It's not hurting anyone, you know." And neither Mr. Jennings nor the program take an admonitory tone.
It would be surprising if tonight's lighthearted contribution to ABC's month of anti-drug programming did not attract new recruits to a small-risk, profit-promising line of work that gives folks a chance to get their hands dirty.
 
PETER JENNINGS REPORTING
Pot of Gold
ABC, tonight at 10
 
Tom Yellin, executive producer; Martin Smith, producer; Peter Jennings, anchor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PETER JENNINGS REPORTING (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (58%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; MARIJUANA; REVIEWS CANNABIS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SHERIFFS (86%); HORTICULTURE (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); TRADE SHOWS (51%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER RUSH LIMBAUGH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



278 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
New ideas go beyond handouts in the war on African poverty.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WITH much of the third world busily freeing markets and imitating the export-led growth policies of the Asian tigers like Taiwan and Hong Kong, economic development is the order of the day everywhere. Everywhere, that is, but sub-Saharan Africa, where population growth has outpaced output for two decades and most people live on the edge of subsistence.
Are Africans fated to remain poor? Not according to specialists at the Harvard Institute for International Development, who are pressing Washington to create a "new partnership for growth" with African countries. Instead of handouts-as-usual, they would offer market access, foreign debt concessions and technology transfers. 
 This idea is not being tossed into a political vacuum. With the support of the Clinton Administration, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have begun to offer debt write-offs as carrots to domestic reforms. And an influential group of lawmakers has introduced legislation in Congress to break the cycle of the traditional guilt-induced aid followed by indifference.
While hardly anyone thinks a change in foreign aid policy could cure all that ails Africa, there are promising precedents for the tough-love approach. "Nobody anticipated East Asia's success before it happened," notes Nick Eberstadt, a researcher at the American Enterprise Institute. He argues that economic planners in Taiwan and South Korea pulled up their socks only after a termination of conventional foreign aid was threatened.
It's hard to exaggerate the wretched state of the economy south of the Sahara and north of the Republic of South Africa. According to United Nations calculations, personal consumption levels are roughly one-twentieth that of the industrial countries. Poor nutrition and a lack of clean water have transformed much of Africa into a sink of disease, with one child in six dying before the age of 5. Meanwhile, explosive population growth and soil depletion are driving once-self-sufficient farmers into urban mega-slums, which offer little hope of housing, education or employment.
It is also hard to exaggerate the failure of four decades of development aid. While the West has poured tens of billions of dollars into assistance -- and saved a lot of lives during famines -- a combination of geopolitics and post-colonial sensibilities have limited the leverage of the donors. "There has never been any effective pressure for African governments to make policy choices," argues Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Harvard group, "which would have led to the mobilization of domestic resources for development."
This doesn't mean the region is beyond economic redemption. East Asia looked as hopeless in the 1950's. And development specialists cautiously estimate that the continent is capable of sustaining 5 percent growth in per capita income for several decades. "Africa could even catch up with Asia if it did everything right," Robert Rotberg, the institute's coordinator for southern Africa, concluded.
"Everything right" is a tall order. Mr. Rotberg and others would be delighted with significant progress on the basics: prudent budget policies, investment in education and infrastructure, deregulation of domestic markets and foreign trade, a warm welcome to foreign investors. To get from here to there, the Harvard group wants Western donors to offer wide-open import markets, foreign debt write-offs, subsidies for private foreign investment and very temporary injections of cash to help balance budgets -- all of which would be conditioned on no-nonsense domestic reforms designed to let markets work.
The Rwandas and Zaires of Africa are plainly not ready for economic prime time. But some deeply impoverished countries with politically legitimate governments may be in a position to respond to incentives: Experts offer Uganda, Ghana, Mali, Malawi and Mozambique as prospects.
There are stirrings of political support where it counts. This week the World Bank and the I.M.F. announced plans to cut Uganda's debt by $300 million. And two House Democrats, Jim McDermott of Washington and Charles B. Rangel of New York, along with Philip M. Crane of Illinois, a senior Republican, have introduced legislation to rewrite the rules for trade and investment policy with Africa along the Harvard group's lines.
"I believe it is time for a major shift in attitude, policy and commitment," Representative McDermott told a House subcommittee last August.
Sound familiar? Africa's economic predicament periodically draws sympathy in the West, but never for long. One difference this time, perhaps, is that no one is asking for serious money to sustain the initiative. More important, Europe -- Africa's major benefactor -- is less likely to undermine demands for domestic reform with what amounts to guilt money for past sins. "The colonial and post-colonial periods are behind us," said a report on aid issued by the European Commission last November.
But a war on African poverty would require overcoming the weary sense of hopelessness that surrounds attitudes toward Africa. "The essential question," argues Albert Fishlow, a development specialist at the Council on Foreign Relations, is, "do we take Africa seriously?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (96%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: SAHARA DESERT (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (96%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAHARA DESERT (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AFRICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FAMINE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); NUTRITION (66%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (64%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



279 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Says Higher Pay Mostly Eludes Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Despite a persistently low unemployment rate, American workers have generally been unable to win significantly higher pay, the Federal Reserve's latest survey of economic conditions suggested today.
And where companies have granted hefty raises, they have managed to offset the extra cost with better productivity, thereby keeping the cost of their products in check. 
 This implies that the Federal Reserve, which is to conduct an eagerly awaited policy meeting on March 25, may be able to avoid raising interest rates to slow the economy.
But that is not certain, for Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has warned that he might not necessarily wait for incontrovertible evidence that inflation was gaining momentum and could make a "pre-emptive" strike against it. The state of the job market, Government officials and private economists agree, is crucial since it accounts for the bulk of costs in the economy.
"Tight labor markets still dominate in almost all parts of the country," said the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis in its summary of the anecdotal findings, which cover late January, February and the first few days of March. But "wage gains generally remain moderate" and price pressures appear "temperate."
Still, there were glaring exceptions, such as a report from the Minneapolis Fed that an electronics company there is offering $5,000 signing bonuses and starting pay of nearly $40,000 to undergraduate seniors with majors in engineering. Building contractors in the Chicago district, meanwhile, were said to be recruiting scarce workers at the construction sites of competitors.
The securities markets found little comfort in the survey, part of the Fed's preparation for a meeting of the Open Market Committee. Stocks started an afternoon slide following its release at 2 P.M.
The committee moved in August to a stance biased toward tightening monetary policy and is believed to have maintained it through its most recently scheduled meeting on Feb. 4 and 5.
But the Fed's options still appeared to remain open since many employers seem unwilling to engage in a bidding war for workers, presumably because they believe that they cannot raise prices to recover the extra cost.
"Some firms cite low unemployment rates as making it difficult to expand their operations," the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta found. Similarly, the Fed's Chicago district reported that "several contacts indicated that the tight labor markets may be restraining the region's economic expansion."
This suggests that to some significant, although unquantifiable, extent the private sector is restraining the economy and thereby making it less likely the Fed will be forced to do so with higher rates.
The survey's summary found most districts enjoying "strong" conditions in residential real estate, that commercial real estate markets "continue to strengthen" and that consumer spending was higher than in the first two months of last year.
The economy of the New York district, including part of New Jersey and southern Connecticut, was cited for higher consumer spending, along with Boston and Atlanta. The commercial real estate market tightened further as the asking price for rents in midtown Manhattan began to edge up, and the market for single-family houses "appears to be gaining momentum," with prices across the state up about 5 percent from the level a year earlier. Manhattan co-ops and condominiums, however, have been flat.
The Boston district, which covers virtually all of New England, was one of the strongest, with wages rising about 4 percent a year. Temporary workers were especially scarce, the Fed found, with demand outstripping supply "across all industries and occupations" and wages rising at a rate of 8 to 10 percent.
Massachusetts, southern Connecticut and southern New Hampshire were described as very strong, and Maine and Vermont were "both starting to pick up."
However, the Fed cited a lessening of wage pressures in the Dallas and Kansas City districts. A mini-boom in southwest Pennsylvania has pushed the jobless rate there a half- point below the national average of 5.3 percent.
Over all, the Fed said, regional economies "generally continue to expand at a relatively moderate pace." This echoed the late January description of growth as being "moderate in most parts of the country."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Some Quickening of Growth Amid Tight Labor Markets" provides a roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Feceral Reserve's 12 districts, according to the quarterly beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRODUCTIVITY; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); ELECTRONICS (72%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



280 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Hard Work for Men in Hard Hats

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

PAYBACK
By Thomas Kelly
273 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $23.
 Perhaps the most powerful character in Thomas Kelly's bloody-fisted first novel, "Payback," is the tunnel that his hero, Billy Adare, is helping to build. This is Water Tunnel Three, being blasted through the ancient bedrock of Manhattan, 800 feet beneath the city. "The largest public works project in American history," explains the narrative, "when finished, it would stretch for 60 miles" and "would deliver two billion gallons of pristine mountain water a day to a metropolis surrounded by saltwater."
Back from college, back in the Bronx, back to work for the summer of 1987 before beginning law school, Billy wonders if he can return to the hard work of being a sandhog like his father, who was "the first of 23 men killed building Water Tunnel Three, a body count that made it the most dangerous job in America." 
 "Billy and the gang climbed up on the jumbo drilling platform, with its three levels, three drills to a level. The drills were run by compressed air, weighed over a hundred pounds each. Billy wrestled his drill into position. By the time he was set up, he was slathered in grease. The light was dim, the air worse than usual. Billy felt like he was breathing wet wool. He stood a hair under six feet tall, and his hard hat scraped the raw rock ceiling above his head. He hunched slightly and, with Frankie holding his drill bit to the rock face, let rip. The other sandhogs started drilling, taking up where the swing shift had left off. The howl engulfed them."
Powerful characters are threatening above ground, too. Billy's union lacks a contract. Joe Harkness, the tunnel's contractor, wants to break the union and thinks he can, given the anti-union climate created by President Ronald Reagan. Harkness has hired "a broker for illicit and unseemly business," who has made a deal with the Mafia. The Mafia has decided to pass the job on to the Irish gang that runs "the lucrative construction rackets on the West Side."
This gang is run by one Jack Tierney, whom a New York City police detective describes in colorful terms. Once, when Tierney was insulted by a man known as Screwdriver, "he lured Screwdriver somewhere and made him a pair of concrete shoes." The detective goes on: "Nice touch, right? A nod to the old days. But while Jack might be old-fashioned, a traditionalist at times, he's also a modernist. They say he put Screwdriver in those concrete shoes but before he dropped him in the river he fitted him with scuba gear. Taped the regulator over his mouth. Tied his hands behind his back, then tossed him in. Gave Screwdriver plenty of time to think what a bad idea calling Jackie Tierney names was. I wonder what was going through Screwdriver's mind, he's down there watching the carp swim by, maybe a snapping turtle or two."
One of Jack Tierney's lieutenants is Paddy Adare, a 32-year-old washed-up boxer who is Billy's older brother. So the battle lines are drawn. And Billy is caught in the middle, torn between his family and past and his ambition to escape to law school.
Many forces work to pull Billy back to his roots, as he hangs out over the summer with the friends he grew up with and falls into old habits of self-destructive loyalty, like getting drawn into bar fights or accepting tainted money from Paddy. Also, much repels him about the world he would escape to, as he recalls how out of place he felt at the "prestigious liberal arts school" he attended "upstate," and how put off he was by rebellious rich students who "hated all that made their life good."
The author of "Payback" seems to identify with Billy, perhaps because Mr. Kelly spent 10 years as a construction worker, including 3 as a sandhog in the Bronx, and went on to earn a bachelor's degree in political economy from Fordham University and a master's in public administration from Harvard. Whatever the reason, Mr. Kelly includes slightly more detail about growing up poor and Irish than is absolutely necessary to his hyperthyroid plot. Among his digressions is a telling scene in which he has trouble persuading the Columbia law school registrar's office to accept his tuition payment in cash.
Yet such overdetailing is counterbalanced by the pace and violence of a plot in which men crush their opponents with a brutality that makes even the film "Donnie Brasco" seem tame; in which a man thrown from a car "doing 70 up the West Side Highway" is described as having "bounced along" like a "Spaldeen," and where, when Billy peers over the edge of a roof, "far below, the life of the city surged like the blood of a great snarling beast, unimpeded by his concerns."
Considering what a Hobbesian world Mr. Kelly has drawn, with people caught in brutal dead-end lives of hard labor and sudden death, his plot resolves itself with remarkable neatness and a surprisingly positive outcome for the good guys. But you tend to overlook his unearned optimism because the reader of "Payback" ends up having an altogether entertaining time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Kelly. (Jerry Bauer/Alfred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PAYBACK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (88%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORY (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); SCUBA DIVING (50%); 

PERSON: KELLY, THOMAS (NOVELIST); LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



281 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 62 words

HEADLINE: Iran Hints at Boycott

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, March 12

 BODY:
The Iranian state radio said today that a boycott of United States goods by Islamic countries would be an effective way of forcing Washington to stop supporting Israel. 
 "Using this method could pressure this country to decrease its support of Tel Aviv by raising the prospect that America's economic standing in the world could be jeopardized," the radio added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN (58%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (69%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN (58%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (69%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



282 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
* Capstone Capital Corp., Birmingham, Ala., is selling $65 million of convertible subordinated debentures due in 2002 through Smith Barney Inc. The debentures are priced at 90.30 to yield 9 percent. 

* Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, is selling $200 million of medium-term notes due in 2002 through J. P. Morgan Securities. The notes, which are noncallable, carry an interest rate of 6.49 percent and are priced at par.
 
* Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, is selling $100 million of notes due in 2007 through Merrill Lynch & Co. The noncallable notes carry an interest rate of 6.8 percent and are priced at par.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (73%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (71%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); ALABAMA, USA (73%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



283 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: In Separate Studies, Costs Of Hospitals Are Debated

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Investor-owned hospitals have significantly higher administrative costs than nonprofit hospitals, in part because they are less efficient, two health care researchers said today.
At the same time, a Federal advisory panel said in a separate study that hospitals of all types had radically reduced the growth of their total costs. 
 Taken together, the studies suggest that hospital costs have leveled off, but that administrative costs account for a growing share of the total.
In the first study, published today in The New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Steffie Woolhandler and Dr. David U. Himmelstein said they had analyzed Government data and found "higher administrative costs at for-profit hospitals." Specifically, they said, "we found that for-profit hospitals spend 23 percent more on administration than do comparable private not-for-profit hospitals and 34 percent more than public institutions."
The American Hospital Association and the Federation of American Health Systems, which represents investor-owned hospitals, rejected the findings. They said that the authors had for years been strident critics of America's health care industry and had favored a Government-financed system of universal health insurance like Canada's.
Dr. Himmelstein said that for-profit hospitals tended to spend more on marketing, lobbying and executive compensation. Some investor-owned hospital chains "pay enormous salaries, bonuses and stock options to their executives," he said.
Dr. Woolhandler said that a typical for-profit hospital had administrative costs averaging $2,289 for each hospital stay in 1994, compared with administrative costs of $1,861 for a comparable private nonprofit hospital and $1,708 for a public hospital of the same size.
The authors, who are associate professors at Harvard Medical School, said their research belied the conventional wisdom that for-profit hospitals were more efficient. These hospitals "save money by laying off nurses, then hire consultants and bureaucrats to figure out how to maximize revenues and avoid unprofitable patients," Dr. Woolhandler asserted.
Thomas A. Scully, president of the Federation of American Health Systems, said that Dr. Woolhandler and Dr. Himmelstein had "a transparent political agenda: to discredit anything related to the market or competition in health care."
In response, Dr. Himmelstein said that he favored a Canadian-style system because "the health care industry in the United States wastes enormous resources and deprives people of the care they need."
About 15 percent of the nation's 5,200 community hospitals are for-profit entities. Some nonprofit hospitals behave in similar ways and try to earn a surplus each year. Hundreds of nonprofit hospitals have become profit-making enterprises in the last 15 years. Deborah J. Chollet, associate director of the Alpha Center, a health policy research institute here, said that most of the ownership status changes had occurred in California, Florida, Georgia and Texas.
New data from the Federal panel, the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission, which advises Congress on Medicare payments to hospitals, show remarkable reductions in the growth of hospital operating costs in the last three years. Such costs, which rose faster than the Consumer Price Index for many years, are now rising less than consumer prices in general, the panel said.
Dr. Donald A. Young, executive director of the commission, said today: "I don't find anything inherently wrong with administrative costs if an organization is efficient. Some of the best corporations in America also have high administrative costs. That, in part, is why they are good businesses. You need good administrators to manage a large, complex organization."
In an editorial in The New England Journal today, Stuart H. Altman, a professor of national health policy at Brandeis University, said that "better administration" may have increased hospitals' efficiency. "Since 1994," he said, "the annual rate of increase in hospital expenses per admission has been consistently below the level of inflation."
Richard H. Wade, a spokesman for the American Hospital Association, conceded that the health care system was "laden with wasteful administrative costs," in part because there were hundreds of different health insurance companies and health plans. But he said that many administrative costs were for medical records, auditing and other activities that increased the quality of care for consumers.
Hospital mergers and acquisitions generate "enormous costs up front," Mr. Wade said, but in the long run, investors hope that such transactions will increase the efficiency of the health care system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSN; FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HEALTH SYSTEMS; NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (55%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HOSPITALS (83%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HOSPITALS (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSN; FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HEALTH SYSTEMS; NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HOSPITALS (83%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (83%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN HOSPITALS (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (99%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WRITERS (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); BONUS PAY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; WOOLHANDLER, STEFFIE (DR); HIMMELSTEIN, DAVID U (DR)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



284 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long Bond's Price Falls On Rate Fears

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were flat to lower yesterday, as investors continued to be cautious for fear that new economic data could prove unduly strong, leading the Fed to raise short-term interest rates to keep inflation from accelerating.
Nervousness ahead of the Fed's release of its beige book report yesterday caused prices to sag, with only a brief rebound when the report, prepared by the St. Louis Fed, turned out to be very similar to recent reports on business activity. 
 The labor markets remain tight in nearly all the 12 Federal Reserve districts, with wage gains showing no signs of breaking out of the 3 to 4 percent range mentioned in the last several reports. It showed price pressures at retailers and manufacturers have been temperate, thanks to competition.
Today the market will focus on the monthly retail sales report to get a sense of how fast the economy is growing, and tomorrow market participants will be weighing Government reports on February industrial production and producer prices.
The price of the 30-year bond dropped 12/32, to 96 26/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.88 percent, from 6.85 percent on Tuesday.
Carroll J. Delaney, director of research at Stires, O'Donnell & Company, said after last week's employment report for February that the market ought to be ready for clear sailing ahead, but that does not seem to be the case.
"We seem to be taking the posture of waiting for the other shoe, or shoes to drop, whatever they may be -- whether another jump in equities, incipient signs of inflation, or a Fed rate hike," Mr. Delaney said.
Thomas F. Carpenter, chief economist and managing director at ASB Capital Management, a Washington company that manages about $6 billion in bonds, said the significance of yesterday's beige book report was that the Federal Open Market Committee would use it when it meets on March 25.
"I think in general it would be difficult for the Fed if it were looking for some pretext, or rationale, from the text of the report to raise rates," Mr. Carpenter said. "What stands out was the choice of words to describe the tempo of economic activity, like moderate, temperate, and mixed. All of these words connote the lack of excesses and imbalances and would appear to provide little justification of an increase in the federal funds rate at the F.O.M.C. meeting.
"What was significant is that wage gains of 3 to 4 percent, which are moderate, did not appear to be accelerating from prior months. But the real statement in the report is that intense competition at the retail levels and big advances in productivity are negating any and all increase in input prices, leaving the overall inflation rate at a low ebb. There is no reason to believe that advances in technology and productivity and the overall current level of competition in retail markets is going to disappear anytime soon. So in terms of the F.O.M.C. meeting, it really puts off to the future the day of reckoning for Fed monetary policy."
Still, he added, bond yields cannot go significantly lower ahead of the meeting, as long as most market participants remain cautious.
"The risk on the retail number is to the upside, since all we've had has been this uncharacteristically warm February weather," Mr. Carpenter said. "And there is always the chance with the volatile retail number that the prior month number, which came out lower than expected, may get revised up at the same time the February number is published, indicating firm retail sales for that month. Investors may look past Friday's Producer Price Index to see if it will be confirmed by the Consumer Price Index. Industrial production is expected to be up half of 1 percent after the zero gain in January."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November 1996. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); RETAILERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



285 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Haunt Philadelphia in Trial of 2 Men Charged in a Jogger's Murder

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, March 12

 BODY:
There were 432 homicides in Philadelphia in 1995, but just one that brought a teary tribute from the Mayor at the victim's memorial service.
That was the slaying of Kimberly Ernest, a 26-year-old paralegal who was attacked on her early morning jog through Center City in a crime that chilled that area's genteel row house blocks. 
 Throughout the city, talk of "the jogger murder" was instant, animated and practically ceaseless. Tensions eased only when, within a month of the crime, the police had confessions from two minor-league criminals who had apparently conducted a small crime wave in Center City around the time of the murder.
But however satisfying the confessions, they now turn out to be the only significant evidence against the men in their trial, which has gripped this city for the last few months.
The defendants contend that they were beaten and their statements fabricated by detectives, the elite in a department that since 1995 has seen more than 270 cases dismissed and six police officers imprisoned for extortion, planting evidence and lying in court. And as testimony concluded today, the city that demanded answers after the killing is caught between concerns that the guilty may go free and suspicions that the real killer is still out there.
"The lack of evidence is highly disturbing," said Stuart Seidman, a businessman, stating the common wisdom around Center City these days. "With all the corruption trials going on in the Philadelphia police, you'd think the cops wouldn't be dumb enough to blow this one. It's classic Philadelphia."
Ms. Ernest, a Chicago doctor's daughter, was killed about dawn on Nov. 2, 1995. She was found, in a bra, socks and running shoes, in a deep stairwell outside an office on Pine Street, near Rittenhouse Square.
An autopsy found that Ms. Ernest died of strangulation and blunt-force injuries to the head. There was evidence of rape: fresh vaginal tears, though no semen in the vagina, and traces of semen, though no sign of trauma, in the rectum.
In the next few weeks, the stairwell became a shrine, with flowers, candles and handwritten eulogies arrayed against the gate on the brick sidewalk. People gathered there to protest violence against women.
"This case is different," said Sgt. Paul Musi, who worked on the case. "For some reason, Philadelphia embraces this girl."
Fear and speculation dissipated with the arrests of Herbert Haak 3d, 25, a sometime computer repairman with a long list of burglary and theft convictions, and Richard Wise, an unemployed 19-year-old with a record of assaults. Mr. Haak lived with his fiancee in an apartment a few blocks from the crime scene, and Mr. Wise had been staying in an attached garage.
Mr. Haak called the police six days after the slaying. He was in jail in suburban Bucks County, where he had been detained after a court hearing on a burglary charge held within hours of Ms. Ernest's death. Mr. Haak told detectives that Mr. Wise was threatening to kill his fiancee; he also said Mr. Wise was involved in the Ernest killing.
The police picked up Mr. Wise for questioning, administering a polygraph test, which they said he failed. But having no other evidence, they released him.
A few weeks later, detectives heard from Mr. Haak's stepfather, John Hall, who implicated Mr. Haak along with Mr. Wise. Both men were arrested after giving confessions that told the following story:
Herbert Haak and Richard Wise, who had met as neighbors in Philadelphia's working-class Fishtown neighborhood, had a routine of breaking into cars and harassing people in the predawn hours around Center City. On Nov. 2, Mr. Haak was acting as lookout and Mr. Wise was approaching a parked car with a crowbar when Ms. Ernest, running down Pine Street, spotted him and threatened to call the police.
Mr. Wise hit her with the crowbar, but Ms. Ernest, 5 feet 10 inches tall and athletic, fought back. The men pushed her into their car, which was parked nearby, where Mr. Wise beat her into unconsciousness in the back seat and pulled off her pants while Mr. Haak drove, searching for a place to throw her out. They returned to Pine Street and dragged her into the stairwell. Mr. Wise tried to rape her but, he told the police, "I was just having a tough time trying to do it."
The wrenching story seemed to promise resolution. But investigators were soon brought up short. DNA from the semen in Ms. Ernest's body did not match either defendant. An examination of Mr. Haak's 1987 Bonneville yielded nothing, and while Mr. Haak's statement said they were driving a stolen car -- Mr. Wise said they were in the Bonneville -- the police could find no such car. There was no blood, no fingerprints, no crowbar, no witnesses. Ms. Ernest's pants were never found.
The trial, which began on Feb. 19 in Philadelphia Common Pleas Court, has produced a knot of ambiguous evidence. Mr. Haak's stepfather refused to testify, as did his mother, Phyllis, who had told police that Mr. Wise threatened to kill her if she revealed anything "about what we did to that girl."
It is not clear that Mr. Hall's testimony would have helped prosecutors; a habitual car thief, he is known as a jailhouse informer. The defense contends that to settle scores with his stepson he fed the police a story that detectives, under pressure to solve the case, used to fashion confessions.
At the trial, Mr. Wise never took the stand. Mr. Haak, however, testified to being beaten during his interrogation, and a prison social worker and a public defender said they saw red marks on his face and chest the next day. But three prison medical workers who saw him after the interrogation noted no signs of injury.
Mr. Haak also testified that detectives forced him to sign blank pages and that the confession must have been typed in later. But under cross-examination he was caught in many inconsistencies and acknowledged lying to a jury in a previous case. And in rebuttal testimony on Tuesday, a police documents expert displayed for jurors a magnified photo of a page of Mr. Haak's confession showing that a stroke of the defendant's signature had been placed on top of a typewritten line.
As to why he implicated Mr. Wise, Mr. Haak told the court that it was a ploy to get him out of his apartment and away from his fiancee.
Asked whether a false accusation of murder was not an overreaction, he replied: "I was trying to get police to go pick him up, so I was telling them anything I could think of."
One of Mr. Haak's fellow inmates testified that he had talked about "the wild man who lived in his garage" and who had "whacked" and raped the jogger; a former cellmate said Mr. Haak boasted that the car he and Mr. Wise had driven would never be found "because it was under water." But the jury also heard from inmates who questioned the cellmate's credibility.
Most confounding is the mystery sperm. The assistant medical examiner said it could have been a day or two old and the result of consensual sex. But he also said it could have been left by the killer, which would exclude both defendants.
Today, another prosecution expert said he believed that the sperm had resulted from vaginal intercourse more than a day before the assault.
Several of Ms. Ernest's friends and former lovers testified to her active sex life, but no one has acknowledged having sex with her in the days just before her death.
"They shouldn't be convicted on the evidence the police have," said Frank Bender, a sculptor who lives near Pine Street.
Still, Mr. Bender added, "I thought from the beginning they had the right guys."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kimberly Ernest, shown in a 1987 yearbook photograph, was killed while on her early morning jog; The murder trial of Herbert Haak 3d, left, and Richard Wise is near its end; they contend that the police fabricated their confessions. (Photographs by The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT EVIDENCE (90%); MURDER (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FORENSICS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); EXTORTION (76%); ARRESTS (76%); BURGLARY (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); LARCENY & THEFT (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); MISCONDUCT (69%); HEAD INJURIES (62%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA; HAAK, HERBERT 3D; WISE, RICHARD; ERNEST, KIMBERLY

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



286 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: An Office Revival Is Taking Shape;
But This Time, Developers Are Keeping Things Simple

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
They're back. The nation's real estate developers, after their crazed overbuilding in the 1980's helped ruin hundreds of banks and savings and loans, are starting to put up speculative office buildings again, breaking ground before they know who will fill most of their floors.
The developers swear on a stack of blueprints that they will not repeat their past excesses. Instead of building sky-scraping, marble-clad, sculpture-bedecked urban spires, they are mostly constructing squat boxes, often varying in little but trim, in outlying suburbs. In other words, McOffices. 
 "Underneath, it's the same building," one Atlanta developer, Don Childress, said without apology of the four six-story buildings he has started since he resumed office construction a year ago.
Economic growth and new hiring are feeding the resurgence in building, but there are other reasons, too. Cost-conscious tenants like the thrifty image these surroundings convey. Though bent on squeezing more employees into less space, they often need newer buildings with more parking and the heavier utility service that technological advances demand.
"The glamour, the grandiose styles, the palaces -- they're gone," said Douglas A. Tibbetts, president of the real estate arm of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, which a decade ago backed the nation's flashiest developers. "Today, people need something that looks efficient."
The resumption of office construction, though still modest, represents a turning point in a commercial real estate market that saw the worth of some buildings fall by half since the late 80's. The value of all commercial real estate now stands at $3.2 trillion.
Office building came to a virtual standstill for several years, with a low of only 1.6 million square feet -- the equivalent of less than two 50-story buildings -- completed in the entire nation in 1994. In 1986, developers finished more space than that every five days, with most of that fifth day left for topping-out parties. In all, 139.9 million square feet of office space was completed that year, as much as if the nation's developers had built another Houston, with all its suburbs, from scratch.
Last year, new office space was back up to 6.6 million square feet, and Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm, estimates that 13 million will be completed this year, the most since 1992.
More than three-quarters of the new buildings under construction at the end of 1996 were speculative, accounting for most of the gain, the firm reports. For much of the 90's, speculative construction essentially ceased.
The return of building on speculation, beginning about a year and a half ago, is concentrated in -- but not confined to -- the South and Southwest. Suburban Atlanta, Phoenix and Dallas are among the hottest markets. New speculative buildings are also going up, though, in North Jersey and the suburbs of Chicago and Washington.
About the only exceptions to the Edge City trend are a few towers planned in urban centers like Times Square in Manhattan.
Often, the new offices are going up in metropolitan areas where the downtowns still languish and entire office towers remain shuttered and vacant. In Dallas, the downtown vacancy rate is more than 35 percent, the highest in the nation. But in the sprawling Dallas suburbs of Plano and Irving -- out where companies like E.D.S., Exxon and J. C. Penney are based -- many of the nation's largest developers and financial institutions are vying to fill the demand for more space. Tenants see the suburbs providing newer quarters, with more parking and shorter commutes.
Nationally, rental rates have been rising as suburban vacancy rates have dropped from 21.4 percent in early 1992 to 12.9 percent at the end of last year, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Downtown office space has filled up, too, but more slowly, with vacancies falling from nearly 20 percent to 14.8 percent over the same period.
And investors' cash is again flowing into real estate, some of it seeking havens that seem safer than a sky-scraping stock market. "We are flush with capital," said Arthur J. Mirante 2d, Cushman & Wakefield's chief executive, speaking of the national trend. "But everyone remembers what happened in the 80's."
Back then, lenders pressed developers to take their money and build whatever they wanted, requiring them to put up only 5 percent of the costs, or sometimes nothing. Citicorp aimed to back the nation's top 10 developers, while Equitable financed such major builders as John C. Portman of Atlanta, the Crow family of Dallas and Donald J. Trump.
Today, lenders demand that developers put up 20 percent of the costs. They want to see stable or rising population and employment figures and marketing studies with evidence of rental rates high enough to support new construction. They check out the reliability of contractors and architects. And then they might only do business with developers who did not default before.
Wall Street has given hordes of individual investors the chance to buy in with real estate investment trusts, or REIT's. Some insurers are still selling off their real estate, but pension funds and REIT's are taking their places.
Few real estate analysts or economists see any signs that another crash is imminent. Many of the savings and loans and other rash lenders are gone, and there is no prospect of the sort of tax code changes that punctured real estate values in the late 80's. Those changes undid many of the tax shelter features that had caused investors to flock to real estate earlier in the decade.
According to Donald Ratajczak, director of the Georgia State University's Economic Forecasting Center, the long real estate cycle that bottomed out in 1992 is still on the upswing, so that any downturns at this stage will be short.
Even so, telecommuting and corporate cost-cutting continue to constrain demand for new space. Besides, many areas still have plenty of space left over from the last binge. Some Houston buildings that were completely mothballed are only now being unlocked and leased.
Developing offices remains a lot like playing a casino's baccarat tables, which offers plenty of cachet but the highest stakes and risks. Homes, apartments, shopping centers and warehouses have all come back first.
To limit their risks, most developers and lenders shun overbearing high-rises that take two or three years to finish, then another few years to fully lease. Instead, they are often doing suburban structures so simple to finance and build that they might as well be inflatable. If a decade ago construction cranes towered to the upper reaches of urban skylines, this time most of them are all but hidden among suburban trees.
Back in the 80's, Mr. Childress, a former Trammell Crow partner who founded Childress Klein Properties in Atlanta, won architectural plaudits for a Peachtree Street high-rise that featured travertine marble outside, bronze sconces and chandeliers in the lobby.
His latest buildings, each of the same size and shape, take no more than nine months to build, so that he and his lenders, primarily the First Union and Wachovia banks, are not gambling on the market's long-term strength.
The only stone on the facade of his Windward I building in the fringe suburb of Alpharetta, Ga., is a few narrow bands of granite around the entrance, with glass and precast concrete elsewhere. Windward II next door dispensed with the stone altogether.
Both were started without any takers for a majority of the space, but now only a single floor in just one building is left.
Even the few taller buildings that are going up reflect lower-rise ambitions.
In the late 1980's, Equitable Real Estate Investment Management designed Monarch Tower, in Atlanta's Buckhead neighborhood, as a 30-story octagonal showpiece. Over the top, in more ways than one, was an illuminated dome, flanked by four smaller domes at the corners, made entirely of gleaming stainless steel, a building material even more expensive than brass.
Finally, a few years ago, Equitable executives realized that reality had overtaken their costly plans. A different Monarch Tower was started in June 1995 and opened to its first tenants at the beginning of this year -- the first speculative project of the new wave, says Equitable, the nation's largest real estate investor.
Instead of a 30-story octagon, the building became a 24-story box, the only flourish being 12-foot ceilings on the top floor at the request of an aluminum company's executives.
Grant A. Grimes, the building's developer, flogs the new design the way Home Depot flogs do-it-yourself kitchen cabinets. Striding into the compact lobby, he points to some surfaces with a stucco finish and others that are nothing but whitewashed drywall.
"In the 80's, the lobby would have huge volumes of space, massive amounts of stone -- marble, marble, marble," he said, waving his arms. "They wanted that prestige. They wanted it to look horribly expensive."
He lowered his arms and his voice to continue. "In the 90's, they want it to look professional, but they don't want it to look so opulent that when they bring a client in, they say, 'I can't afford you.' "
When construction began, only half the space was leased, including several floors for some Equitable operations. Now, it is more than 90 percent taken, a year ahead of schedule. Equitable plans another building just across the street.
But Equitable remains cautious in a broader sense than design. The parent company -- having, like other insurers, sold off billions in real estate -- has not put its own money in the newer projects. Though the company plans to keep much of the real estate it still has, it is discussing the sale of its real estate development, management and finance operations to the Lend Lease Corporation of Sydney, Australia.
Some developers are even now wondering when to expect the next bust. Atlanta already faces something of an apartment glut, and developers have filed zoning requests to build millions more square feet of office space in the Buckhead area.
"I'm absolutely a believer in the business cycle," Mr. Childress said, recalling that he made no profits from 1990 through mid-1993. "When things get too good, they will be overbuilt. You have a few cows go, and then the herd starts running. It's happened all my life, so why would it change now?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1987, developer Don Childress built the marble-clad first Union Plaza in downtown Atlanta, left. His current projects all look like this six-story building in Alpharetta, Ga., above. (pg. D1) (Photographs by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times; Michael Schwartz for The New York Times [buildings]; Cookie cutter of building by Gloria F. McClain); Office buildings are going up again, but developers are swearing off past excesses. "Underneath, it's the same building," said Don Childress, an Atlanta developer, of the six-story buildings he is now working on. (Michael Schwarz for The New York Times) (pg. D19)
 
Graphs: "A Pattern For Suburbia"
The overbuilding of the 1980's ended in the collapse of commercial development in the early 1990's. Now, though, office construction is reviving. But in place of the striking downtown towers of the last boom, many of today's projects are plain, squat cookie-cutter building in the suburbs. Graphs track new office construction in noncentral business districts and in central business districts, since 1986. They also track the same information for the following cities: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and Washington, from 1991 through 1996. (Source: Cushman & Wakefiled) (pg. D1)
 
"Less Space to Let" tracks office vacancy rates in noncentral business districts and in central business districts, from 1987 through 1996. (Source: Cushman & Wakefield) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (51%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



287 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: MONEY AND POLITICS: THE PERCEPTION;
Why a Capital Uproar Is a Hinterland Beep

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich., March 12

 BODY:
"It's one of the great puzzlements of the year," Robert Teeter said. "How can people be so indifferent to all this seamy stuff? I don't know, but they are. Scandal is on everyone's mind in Washington and on nobody's -- or almost nobody's -- in Michigan."
Mr. Teeter, a Republican campaign consultant of long experience, who managed President George Bush's unsuccessful campaign for re-election in 1992, has a theory about this seeming disconnection between Washington and the hinterland. He sees it as a manifestation of a larger phenomenon: the decreasing importance of politics in the lives of the American people and their waning interest in it. 
 "Every person has only so much attention to give," Mr. Teeter said, "and politics and government takes up only a fraction of what it did 25 years ago. Look at the declining television coverage. Look at the declining voting rate. Economics and economic news is what moves the country now, not politics."
Mr. Teeter was one of about a dozen Michiganders asked this week to reflect on the uproar in Washington over campaign fund-raising and its failure to find much of an echo in the rest of the country. President Clinton, whose Administration and party stand at the center of the furor, has lost little of his popularity in recent weeks, according to public-opinion surveys.
Everyone interviewed agreed that the reaction here has been a shrug.
Why Michigan? It is one of those Middle Western states that has been pivotal in national elections for decades. It has a strong industrial and strong trade-union tradition, bountiful farms and sprawling suburbs, a troubled big city (Detroit) and healthier small ones. It has a a Republican governor, a Republican senator and a Democratic senator, a House delegation dominated by Democrats and a Legislature where each party controls one house.
In short, it is a lot like the United States as a whole. Bill Clinton took it by 300,000 votes in 1992 and increased his margin to 500,000 in 1996.
One obvious reason why people here and elsewhere around the country have responded so little to the accusations of impropriety and excess in fund-raising is episodic news coverage. Local television news programs carried little or nothing on the story early this week, for example. The Detroit Free Press buried the story on page 5 on Tuesday and at the bottom of page 1 today.
"Maybe this is another case of us talking to us, as people say, instead of addressing their concerns," said Robert H. Giles, editor and publisher of The Detroit News, which has reported on the fund-raising matter fairly extensively. "But just because the story doesn't resonate doesn't mean we should start ignoring it. I worry that the public is lowering the bar of expectations so much that the next bunch that gets into the White House will think it can get away with even more."
Of course, politicians are paying attention. As ever, the controversy has spawned jokes. Alluding to the hundreds of overnight guests in the Clinton White House, many of them big contributors, Gov. John Engler of Michigan told a Republican dinner in suburban Macomb County the other night, "We're the party of Lincoln; they've now become the party of the Lincoln Bedroom."
Douglas Fraser, the former president of the United Automobile Workers, said a few of his labor friends were concerned that the furor "will weaken the Presidency and with it Clinton's ability to do things that they want him to do."
But even that kind of self interest, he suggested, tends to be overwhelmed by cynicism about politicians -- "why don't they get down to work?" -- and about journalists -- "why don't they stop carping at everyone?"
As for himself, Mr. Fraser said, he views the problems in the Clinton Administration as merely an extreme form of what has gone on for years: "Politicians get panicky when they're behind," he said. "They cut corners, they promise you and put the squeeze on."
The one phrase used again and again by the old hands here is "people think that they all do it."
"It's a reflection of the success of the Republicans, in a way," said Prof. David Rohde, a political scientist at Michigan State University in East Lansing. "They've been trying to convince voters for years that government is the problem -- Reagan's phrase -- and that you can't trust politicians. Now people believe it, by and large. How can you expect people to be incensed when they view all this as simply more of the same?
"If we lived in a different world, where people considered politics a noble profession, and they thought most politicians were genuine public servants, then people would be outraged by scandals like the ones we're seeing and call for the heads of the bad guys. But not now, not in this world."
The 1996 campaign provided a foretaste of this reaction when Mr. Clinton's Republican opponent, former Senator Bob Dole, tried to make character a central issue. Polls showed that people rated Mr. Dole more highly than Mr. Clinton in that department, but most of them made their decisions based on economic considerations.
Lee C. Bollinger, the president of the University of Michigan, said that even on college campuses, "social idealism is dead or dormant, and a vast majority see the United States as king of the hill, at least for a while." This a comfortable time to live for most people, he said, and they view this "as a time to make money, pad their 401k's, not worry about the poor."
Mr. Bollinger added: "In my mind, the absence of a taste for scandal is directly linked to the lack of a social agenda. If you have no idealistic vision of your country, there is no reason to be disturbed by leaders who fall short of high ethical standards."
In that way, said Charles Eisend rath, a Michigan professor who used be a foreign correspondent, the United States may be starting to resemble France. Long accustomed to the peccadilloes of their own politicians, the French could not understand what all the fuss was in the Watergate affair and thought Americans a little nutty to bring down Richard M. Nixon, a President they considered talented.
"They thought Watergate was business as usual," Mr. Eisendrath said. "Now we're getting world-weary like them."
The only thing likely to shake the country from its torpor, said Mr. Teeter, the campaign consultant, is something similar to the Ervin committee hearings at the time of the Watergate affair -- perhaps the hearings that are to be held this spring by Senator Fred Thompson, Republican of Tennessee.
"Two or three weeks of televised hearings, witnesses who become personalities the country can identify with, maybe somebody taking the Fifth Amendment -- that could grab people's attention and change their view," Mr. Teeter said, "but I really can't think what else could do that."
Joel Pitcoff, a marketing executive with the Ford Motor Company in Dearborn, agreed.
"Right now," he said, "it looks to a lot of people like reporters making a mountain out of a molehill. But give it time and exposure on television, and molehills can start looking like mountains to those same people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT FREE PRESS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCANDALS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ETHICS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



288 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: 2 Brokerages In Insurance To Join Forces

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Two giant New York insurance brokerages that began doing business more than a century ago, the Marsh & McLennan Companies and Johnson & Higgins, announced yesterday that they were merging. The $1.8 billion deal will make the combined company the world's largest insurance broker.
The merger, which will create a firm with more than $5.3 billion in annual revenue, was the latest in a succession of consolidations that have been sweeping the insurance and financial services industries as companies strain to achieve operating efficiency and command of their markets. 
 More mergers of insurance companies and brokerage firms, which arrange insurance coverage for corporations, are expected. Indeed, with the announcement of Marsh & McLennan's planned acquisition of Johnson & Higgins, investors began speculating that the Chicago insurance brokerage firm Arthur J. Gallagher & Company might soon become a takeover target, and Gallagher's stock jumped $1.375 to close at $33.25.
Marsh & McLennan said it would pay one-third of the $1.8 billion purchase price in cash and the balance in stock.
The market endorsed the merger of Marsh & McLennan with Johnson & Higgins, which was privately held, by bidding up Marsh & McLennan shares $7, to $129. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that a deal was imminent.
Executives of both firms as well as industry analysts said the merger would create substantial savings through the combining of many back-office operations and the elimination of some of the 36,000 jobs in the two companies in New York and at the companies' more than 500 offices throughout the world.
The companies would not say just how many jobs would be lost -- and where -- but analysts said the impact would be spread throughout the world and was unlikely to cause a tremor in the economy of New York.
"This is a worldwide thing, not a New York thing," said Ira L. Zuckerman, an analyst at Nutmeg Securities Inc. in Westport, Conn.
Ultimately the merger is expected to increase revenue at Marsh & McLennan, making it a stronger player in the economy.
"I think there will be some expense savings, but the purpose for doing this is to achieve higher growth," said A. J. C. Smith, the chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh & McLennan, which began doing business in New York in 1871.
Such combinations are increasing. In January, for example, the AON Corporation of Chicago paid $1.23 billion for Alexander & Alexander Services Inc. The AON merger gave the company total revenue of about $5 billion and, until yesterday, made it the largest insurance brokerage in the world, supplanting the longtime leader, Marsh & McLennan.
A big part of the brokerage business involves acting as an intermediary between corporations and property and casualty insurance companies. For nearly a decade, the property and casualty companies have been lowering premiums in a battle for market share, and this has hurt brokers' commissions.
Marsh & McLennan has reported net profits of more than 10 percent for the last five years, but much of its success, company executives say, is attributable to high gains by its investment subsidary as a result of the soaring stock market. Growth has been flat, analysts said, and that provided motivation for the merger.
Johnson & Higgins, founded in 1845 and also looking for growth, had considered going public as a means of raising money for acquisitions. But Ronald W. Frank, an insurance industry analyst for Smith Barney said, "This was certainly not a distress sale."
Mr. Smith estimated that savings of as much as $150 million a year could result from the merger. He estimated that several hundred people might lose their jobs, adding that much of the savings would come through consolidating offices in cities where both firms now operate. But analysts said they thought the savings were likely to be higher and that the estimate on eliminated jobs seemed conservative.
Total revenue for Marsh & McLennan last year was $4.1 billion, compared with $1.2 billion for Johnson & Higgins. While much of Marsh & McLennan's revenue came from its consulting business, the Mercer Consulting Group Inc., and its money management firm, Putnam Investments Inc., its insurance operations yielded $1.9 billion -- almost twice the revenue that Johnson & Higgins collected from insurance. About $110 million of Johnson & Higgins's revenue came from consulting.
Even though Marsh & McLennan is much larger in the insurance field, Mr. Smith said, Johnson & Higgins has the edge in several regions including the Western and the Midwestern United States. Johnson & Higgins has also been stronger in the Netherlands, and has been "a little more adventurous than we have been" in Asia, he said.
The parent company will continue to be called Marsh & McLennan, but the insurance operations of both organizations will be combined in a subsidiary to be known as J&H Marsh & McLennan Inc. Mr. Smith will retain his title and will take the same titles at the new subsidiary. David A. Olsen, the chairman and chief executive of Johnson & Higgins will become a vice chariman of Marsh & McLennan.
As the merger was being announced yesterday, Mr. Smith said, talks were continuing, in an attempt to obtain further growth through acquistion with the purchase by Marsh & McLennan of the Minet Group brokerage in London, a unit of the St. Paul Companies in Minnesota that specializes in liability insurance for professionals. The unit had revenues of $300 million from fees and commissions last year.
Some industry executives have speculated that Marsh & McLennan might be interested in selling all or part of Putnam Investments to concentrate on its core businesses. Not so, Mr. Smith said yesterday.
"We like owning it," he said of Putnam, "and we plan to continue owning all of it."

GRAPHIC: Table: "An Even Bigger Giant"
Marsh & McLennan announced a plan to acquire Johnson & Higgins yesterday. The move would consolidate their leading position among commercial insurance brokerages. Table shows how the newly consolidated company would rank in the industry. (Source: Business Insurance, via Insurance Information Institute) (pg. D21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (96%); MHM (LSE) (96%); AJG (NYSE) (83%); AON (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (83%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (62%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & HIGGINS; MARSH & MCLENNAN COS MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (96%); ARTHUR J GALLAGHER & CO (83%); AON PLC (62%); ALEXANDER & ALEXANDER SERVICES INC (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNSON & HIGGINS; MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INSURANCE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKET SHARE (66%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



289 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Big Realty Trust to Take Over 7 Manhattan Office Towers, Long a Family's Domain

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
For decades, much of New York's vast thicket of skyscrapers, apartment houses and industrial buildings from Wall Street to midtown have been owned by a small group of family dynasties with names like Durst, Helmsley, Rudin and Mendik.
That may be starting to change. 
 Bernard Mendik, a landlord active in New York for 40 years, announced yesterday that he would merge his company and seven Manhattan office towers with Steven Roth's publicly traded Vornado Realty Trust, one of the largest shopping center owners in the country. The $437 million deal would give Mr. Roth's Vornado control of 4 million square feet of valuable Manhattan office space, including Two and 11 Penn Plaza, the giant towers standing over Pennsylvania Station, 330 Madison Avenue, 866 United Nations Plaza and 2 Park Avenue.
Mr. Roth, who built his company by buying and closing the Two Guys and Alexander's department store chains and turning the properties into lucrative real estate operations, has told friends privately that he "intends to become the largest owner of commercial real estate in New York," according to one person who has talked with him.
An analyst with Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Steven Brown, said: "This is a very focused portfolio and Mendik is strong in leasing and management. We like the focus on Manhattan where we think there's a lot of economic strength. This gives them a great platform from which to go after family- or institutionally owned property."
Mr. Roth's decision to merge his company with Mr. Mendik's should smooth Vornado's shift from shopping centers to office buildings. The company also said it would convert Vornado to an "umbrella partnership." That financial structure could prove enticing for real estate families, who would be able to trade their holdings for interests in the partnership through tax-deferred transactions.
Until recently, the New York real estate families and owners had little interest in selling out to publicly traded real estate companies. But the spiraling costs of real estate development and the aging of the families have many real estate moguls considering conversion to publicly traded real estate trusts because of the financial and tax benefits. Last year, Mr. Roth hired Michael Fascitelli, a partner at Goldman Sachs, paying him a compensation package worth an estimated $70 million to take Vornado in new directions. Recently, Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli have pursued a number of properties, including Manhattan Mall, 572 Madison Avenue, 685 Third Avenue and parts of the Helmsley empire. He also is one of nine bidders for the Coliseum site at the southwest corner of Central Park.
"The financial strength of our combined companies will enable us to capitalize on opportunities, including those in the Manhattan office market," Mr. Roth said in a statement released yesterday. Mr. Mendik, who will become co-chairman of Vornado, declined to comment.
But the combination of Mr. Mendik, known as a relatively quick deal maker, and Mr. Roth, a shrewd if sometimes unpredictable negotiator, may prove difficult. Vornado, which owns 56 shopping centers in seven states, controls one of the most valuable development sites in Manhattan, the former Alexander's department store at 58th Street and Lexington Avenue. But over the past several years, Mr. Roth's constantly changing negotiating terms for a tower on the Alexander's site have infuriated some prospective prime tenants, including Sotheby's and Christie's, both of which walked away from a deal.
Mr. Brown said that Mr. Roth had been criticized for "his reluctance to pull the trigger. But he has a very good track record for doing high-return deals for" Vornado. In the past year, Vornado shares have soared to more than $61, from a low of $37.125.
The deal is considered good for Mr. Mendik, who had built a large commercial real estate empire with a reputation as a savvy landlord with a talent for rehabilitating office buildings. But like many property owners during the recession in the early 1990's, Mr. Mendik came under financial pressure. He lost control of several buildings, including 260 and 261 Madison Avenue. In December, Mr. Mendik announced a plan to raise as much as $220 million through an initial public offering, a move that would have created the first publicly traded company to own office buildings in Manhattan.
That project came under some criticism from Mr. Mendik's limited partners and from analysts. Recently, Mr. Roth and Mr. Mendik opened negotiations. According to the terms of the proposed deal, which includes Mr. Mendik's management and leasing business, Vornado will pay $269 million in cash, issue $168 million in partnership units, or shares, and assume $217 million in debt. Mr. Mendik and his limited partners would get a 9 percent interest in Vornado.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Penn Plaza in midtown Manhattan, one of the sites affected by a merger with a public company. (Jack Manning/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CNS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); COHEN & STEERS INC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: VORNADO REALTY TRUST UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (94%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; MENDIK, BERNARD H; ROTH, STEVEN STEVEN ROTH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



290 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Court Rejects Domestic Partner Benefits

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
A state appeals panel in New Jersey has ruled that Rutgers University does not have to provide health benefits to the domestic partners of five homosexual employees, saying that the benefits plan for state workers extends only to legal husbands and wives.
In a unanimous decision issued Tuesday, the panel of three Superior Court judges said that health benefits extend only to people defined as "dependents" under the law that established the benefits plan for state employees in 1961. Although the definition included spouses, the judges all agreed that same-sex domestic partners cannot technically be considered spouses. 
 The decision, which could ultimately affect all of the state's 60,000 employees, comes at a time when the State Legislature is considering two bills that would ban same-sex marriage in New Jersey. Both proposals have strong support in the Republican-dominated Legislature, which is expected to pass a law this year.
But lawyers for the plaintiffs said yesterday that a ban on same-sex marriages would not necessarily dim the prospects for future challenges, because New Jersey's anti-discrimination law prohibits discrimination based on marital status and sexual orientation. Lenora Lapidus, the legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union in New Jersey, said the ruling had clearly overlooked the anti-discrimination law.
"We think it is totally wrong," Ms. Lapidus, who argued the plaintiffs' case with three other lawyers, said of the ruling. "The court had every authority to say the state's interpretation of the benefits law was too narrow and that employees' families clearly encompass lesbian and gay partners."
The ruling came five years after the five employees -- four professors and a dean -- asked Rutgers, a public university, to provide health benefits for their longtime partners. Rutgers forwarded their applications to the State Division of Pensions and Benefits, which rejected them. In 1993, the plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against the state and the university in the law division of State Superior Court, which quickly turned it over to the appellate division.
Since the decision was unanimous, the State Supreme Court is not required to take the case. But the plaintiffs can petition the Supreme Court to review the appellate judges' decision, and they said yesterday that they would probably do so. They said they hoped the court would take up the case and rule in their favor, especially since two of the appellate judges expressed misgivings about the ruling in their written opinions.
"Of course I am disappointed, but I look at this as a waystop," said William E. Mayo, a ceramics professor at the Rutgers College of Engineering, who is among the plaintiffs. "The judges' opinions give me hope."
The other plaintiffs were three professors, William W. Derbyshire, Louie Crew and S. Schurman, and the associate dean of the School of Communication, Information and Library Studies, James D. Anderson.
Although all three judges agreed that the law that provides benefits for state employees does not extend those benefits to domestic partners, two of them said they were philosophically in favor of granting the benefits, and they suggested in their opinions that the state should reconsider its decades-old definition of "dependents."
"Times have changed," Judge Paul G. Levy wrote in his opinion. "Domestic partners and spouses and children are more and more becoming extended families with interwoven economic dependencies."
A number of public and private universities around the nation, including Princeton, Yale and the City University of New York, have extended health benefits to domestic partners of their employees in recent years. Vermont now grants benefits to the partners of its state employees, as do a number of cities, including New York.
Although Gov. Christine Todd Whitman has said she is opposed to same-sex marriages, her spokeswoman said yesterday that the Governor would not necessarily fight a law that would provide the benefits.
"She thinks it is reasonable that people should be able to assign their benefits to partners of their choice," said the spokeswoman, Becky Taylor.
But Sue Kleinberg, the Deputy Attorney General who argued the state's case, said it would be impossible to grant benefits to domestic partners of state employees in a fair and objective manner.
"What are the factors we should use to determine if domestic partners meet the definition of a spouse?" she said. "They can give us a list, but other people are going to come along with other factors they believe are significant, and the definition would just keep growing."
Ms. Kleinberg said the state believed that "any kind of plain reading of the definition has to mean a married partner."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; HOMOSEXUALITY; LABOR; HEALTH INSURANCE GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); COHABITATION (91%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); APPEALS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); JUDGES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); PETITIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



291 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Proposes Increases In Spending on Highways

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today announced a six-year transportation plan that would sharply increase maintenance money for Interstates and other major highways.
The plan would also provide more money for enforcing truck safety laws and for arresting those driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. 
 In addition, the President's proposal would provide $600 million to help people on welfare get to work, including financing van pools, and increase spending on vehicle safety studies and on computerized "intelligent" road and vehicle systems to reduce traffic. It would eliminate Federal subsidies for mass transit operations, but increase the amount of money under the control of state and local governments.
Over all, the plan would authorize $175 billion in spending, about $17 billion more than the last six-year plan, which was approved by Congress in 1991. But actual spending under the old plan did not reach the authorized levels, and it is unclear whether Congress will fully fund this plan if it is adopted.
Like the plans of previous administrations, this one contains no "demonstration projects," or money earmarked for specific roads or bridges -- but Congress has always added them.
"Today, we're taking the next big step to maintain and modernize our transportation system and to make sure it is the best in the world," said President Clinton, announcing the plan at the White House today.
Later at a news conference, Transportation Secretary Rodney E. Slater said that with the Interstate highway system complete "the great majority of the dollars will go to preserving the system that we have, and that could include some enhancement expenditures."
As calculated by the Administration, spending for maintenance of the Interstates and other major routes would increase by 30 percent but mass transit investments would be maintained "at high levels."
Asked if this was a shift toward highways, Mr. Slater said the plan was "clearly about more than highways."
"We will continue a sustained record level of transit investment because of this bill," he said.
The proposal would also let the states charge tolls on Interstate highways. Mortimer L. Downey, the deputy secretary, called this "a minor suggestion."
"We do not believe that a lot of states will take advantage of the opportunity," Mr. Downey said. The Transportation Department would have no authority over the tolls charged, he said, but the courts have determined that the fees must be "just and reasonable."
The new plan, the National Economic Crossroads Transportation Efficiency Act, would replace the the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, which allowed states more power to make spending choices, including those between highways and other transportation systems.
Dennis M. Kouba, a spokesman for the American Public Transit Association, offered this view of the new plan: "We're not completely happy with the transit authorization levels proposed, but at the same time, the flexible fund programs beneficial to transit are proposed to have a large increase in authorization."
In addition, he noted, the plan would let transit authorities use capital for repairs, the sort of flexibility he said highway departments had had for years. "We are pleased with the overall direction" of the President's proposal, he said.
The Administration's proposal comes as a major battle is developing in Congress over whether the highway financing system, largely financed by the gasoline tax, is a mechanism for unfair subsidies among the states. Officials in some Eastern states say they get back less than 70 cents for each dollar they pay in taxes. And some Plains states say their roads are used mainly for long-haul transportation across their borders, for which residents should not have to pay.
The Administration's plan calls for a guarantee that each state will receive at least 90 percent of what it pays. It was not clear whether Congress would accept that compromise.
The authorization bills sometimes have an air of unreality, even as they are passed. Mr. Downey said that under the current plan authorization in the first five years was kept low because it came under an overall national budget plan passed earlier. But in the final year, which ends on Sept. 30, a larger amount of money was authorized for transportation -- but the money was never appropriated at the higher level.
Under today's proposal, New York State would receive an average of $1.159 billion, or 5.78 percent of the national pie, up from $994.9 million or 5.47 percent; New Jersey 578.4 million, or 2.88 percent, up from $488.7 million, or 2.83 percent, and Connecticut $375 million, or 1.87 percent. Connecticut's dollar amount would be higher than the previous $340.5 million, but the percentage would decline from 1.97 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRANSPORTATION; INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING; WELFARE (US); VANS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS ; TRANSIT SYSTEMS TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRUCK SAFETY (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); US TRANSPORTATION EFFICIENCY ACT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DRUG SAFETY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



292 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Key West Journal;
Finding Toil and Sweat Instead of a Spring Break

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., March 8

 BODY:
Michael Morton had expected three days of spring break bliss -- meeting girls on the beach, watching the sunset, cruising the bars -- but his plans went terribly awry. On the second day, he spent eight hours picking up trash.
The tumble from vacation to forced labor began at a bar only hours after Mr. Morton drove into town this week. Looking at a driver's license with the picture of Mr. Morton's 26-year-old brother, the doorman waved over a police officer from across the street. In no time, Mr. Morton, who is 20, was handcuffed, booked and ordered to show up in court at 8 A.M. the next day for violating under-age-drinking laws. 
 Mr. Morton, a sophomore at Appalachian State University in North Carolina, was told he could wipe out any record of the charge by paying a $175 fine or picking up after fellow spring-break students on the beaches and in the parks.
Mr. Morton was among the first college students this year detailed to what students call Key West's "spring break chain gang" by a special court that convenes only in the March-April vacation weeks.
Last year the court sentenced 191 students to work details in the orange jail shirts of Monroe County for flouting drinking laws. The work includes pulling weeds, painting government buildings and straightening files in the county jail.
The hundreds of students who have come before what is known as Spring Break Court have been given the option of a day of community service, a $175 fine or a trial.
The court is a way to relieve clogging of the jails and courtrooms from arrests on spring break, usually for the use of false identification. Law-enforcement officials say that 30,000 to 45,000 students descend on this island in the Florida Keys in March. On any given night 10,000 of them can be hanging out on Duval Street, the main commercial strip, looking for a good time.
The law-enforcement program also underscores the love-hate relationship between spring-break students and regions whose economies depend on tourism. In Florida, a spring-break mecca, municipalities like Fort Lauderdale have all but banned the students, through crackdowns on public drinking and advertisements intended to attract older tourists and families.
Even in Key West, where officials still welcome students, some hotels screen them out or require a $500 deposit to cover possible damage.
"They'll yank the commode and throw it into the pool," said Roger Comegys, an information consultant with the Key West Information Center.
But bar owners and employees say that most students behave.
"Most of the trouble is not spring-breakers," said Mitchell Hein, a chef at the Barefoot Bob's bar-restaurant, but "people in their 30's reliving their childhood."
Florida tourism officials do not keep track of students separately from the 43 million visitors who come to the state each year, but Key West's court numbers show a downward trend in arrests.
Mr. Morton and four other students said they had used false I.D. cards because there was little else to do at night here other than hang out in the watering holes, which remain open until 4 A.M. and entice customers with live music and wet T-shirt contests.
"What are you going to do?" Mr. Morton asked. "Walk around?"
The students also contended that the enforcement crackdown on under-age drinkers was too harsh. In some cities, they said, a bouncer would just confiscate their cards.
Several students called the SpringBreak Court just a way for Key West to make money and save on trash collection, at their expense. On the day the five chose to work, most of them for lack of money for the fine, two others chose to pay.
"I have the money and I don't feel like being degraded on the beach," said Jonathan Meyer, 20, a psychology major at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton.
Law-enforcement officials say the students should be thankful. Before the advent of the court, they said, students who broke the law would typically spend the night in jail and still face fines and convictions on their record.
That was not obviously apparent to the students as they bent under a stinging sun to collect trash, receiving stares from joggers and taunts from passing cars.
Judge Wayne M. Miller of Monroe County Circuit Court, however, functioned more like a school principal than a criminal court officer as he took the students' pleas and admonished them to have fun "within the law," respect the crew leaders from the city's Department of Public Works and behave. That means, Judge Miller said, that "if you happen to see a woman in a bikini while you're wearing that orange shirt you keep your mouth shut."
By the end of the day, after collecting about 3,000 pounds of trash, the students' mortification had dissolved into "thank you's" and handshakes with their crew leaders and each other.
Did they learn a lesson?
"The only lesson I learned was trying to get a better I.D.," Mr. Morton said before his 14-hour drive back to North Carolina.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Justin Higgins, 19, of Appalachian State University, who has been on work details in Key West, Fla., for breaking the law on under-age drinking. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (96%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); APPALACHIAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST (FLA); UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (96%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); BEACHES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); ARRESTS (75%); SENTENCING (74%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; MORTON, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



293 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Congress Seeks to Assess Mexico's Anti-Drug Efforts
Congress, bending to Administration pressure, sought to find a way to criticize Mexico over drugs without harming its economy. A bill under consideration in the House would revoke President Clinton's certification of Mexico as fully cooperating in fighting drug trafficking. But the White House threatened a veto, even though the bill would allow Mr. Clinton to waive the legal effects of the decertification, and the likelihood that it would pass appeared to be dwindling. A1
 
Key Testimony in Drug Case
A former Mexican police officer, testifying in a civil trial in Houston, identified a former deputy attorney general of Mexico to whom he said he delivered narcotics protection money in 1994. It was the most important testimony to date in the case, in which United States prosecutors have been constructing an image of systematic narcotics corruption, showing Mexico's law enforcement officials as being in the pay of drug traffickers. A12
 
Rebels Near Albanian Capital
Rebel gunfire pressed closer to the Albanian capital, Tirana, where gangs carried off weapons from two military sites and Western embassies organized evacuations. Looters also stormed an arms depot near Elbasan, 22 miles southeast of Tirana. In the oil refining center of Ballsh, 50 miles from the capital, insurgents plundered an armory and took control over a main highway through southern Albania. A5
 
Nigeria Charges Dissidents
Nigeria's military Government charged a Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, and 11 other dissidents with treason in connection with a series of bombings of army installations. The charge against Mr. Soyinka carries a potential death penalty, though he fled Nigeria in November 1994 and lives abroad. A6
 
Peru Talks Deadlock
Talks to bring a peaceful end to the hostage crisis in Peru broke down, with both sides saying they had failed to agree on important points. While the discussions had been expected to produce the outlines of an agreement toward ending the crisis, the meeting ended with no progress. It was the first meeting since talks broke down over rebel allegations that the Government was building tunnels to attack them. A13
 
Israeli Premier 'Fed Up'
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel declared he was "fed up" with charges that his actions had violated the Israeli-Palestinian peace accords. The Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, who has apparently refused to talk to Mr. Netanyahu, prepared to convene a meeting in Gaza to discuss the peace agreements; Israel was not invited. A10
 
The United Nations Palestinian observer opened a General Assembly debate on the Israeli Government's plan to build a Jewish settlement in East Jerusalem by condemning the plan as illegal. A11
 
NATIONAL A16-24, B9-11
 
President Shelves Plan For Price Index Commission
Administration officials said President Clinton had decided to shelve the idea of establishing a commission to look into recalculating the cost-of-living adjustments in the consumer price index, which studies said was overstating inflation. A1
 
U.S. Tipped on Lobbying Plan
The Government began to investigate China's lobbying efforts early last year after the National Security Agency picked up hints about China's effort, including its willingness to funnel money to American politicians, law enforcement officials said. They said the hints were discovered while eavesdropping on conversations between Beijing and Chinese officials in the United States. A1

Transportation Plan Announced
The Clinton Administration announced a six-year transportation plan that would raise the amount of money available for maintaining major highways, including interstates. Other elements of the proposal would increase money for enforcing truck safety and drunken driving laws. Overall, it would increase spending on transportation by $17 billion from the amount in the previous six-year plan. A16

Republicans Seek New Budget
The Republican majority in the House endorsed a nonbinding resolution to require the White House to submit a second budget for the coming year. Congressional analysts have described the first one as flawed by overly optimistic assumptions about the economy. The White House said it had no intention of offering a new budget and called on the Republicans to propose their own alternative. B11

Philadelphia Worries Over Trial
Testimony concluded in the trial of two men in the killing of a 26-year-old jogger in Center City Philadelphia in November 1995. The defense focused on allegations of misdeeds by the police, leaving some Philadelphians worried that the guilty would go free and others fearing that the real killer was still at large. A16
 
Restraint Urged on Cloning Ban
Scientists and ethicists testifying before a Senate panel urged Congress not to rush to ban research on the cloning of human beings. The specialists, including Dr. Ian Wilmut, the Scottish scientist who announced the first cloning of a mammal, said there was no immediate crisis because the methods for sheep would have to be made much more efficient before being used with humans. B11
 
High Court Rebuffs Muslims
The Supreme Court rejected a Muslim group's request that it remove a 66-year-old marble depiction of the prophet Mohammed from its courtroom. Islamic tradition discourages artistic renderings of people, especially Mohammed. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist said he had decided against removing the work but would change the Court's literature describing it. (Reuters)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Albany Democrats Propose Big Rise in School Spending
The Democratic leaders of the New York Assembly proposed increasing school spending by more than 50 percent over five years. The proposal, using money from an unexpected boom in income tax receipts, would make preschool available for all 4-year-olds in the state. Governor Pataki and the Republican-controlled Senate want to use the money for property tax relief instead. B1

Gay Partners' Benefits Denied
An appeals panel ruled that Rutgers University did not have to provide health benefits to the domestic partners of five gay employees. The ruling, which ultimately could affect all New Jersey state employees, said the benefits plan for state workers extended only to legal spouses. B4

New Charges for Nightclub King
Peter Gatien, whose Manhattan nightclub empire was partly shut down after his indictment on Federal drug charges, was arrested again. State prosecutors said he had cheated New York City and State out of more than $1.3 million in taxes. Mr. Gatien's lawyer said there was a legitimate explanation. B2

Protest Over AIDS Classes
Students and their advocates passed out condoms and demonstrated in front of more than 30 New York City high schools. The students said many of their peers do not receive mandated health classes on AIDS. B3

Plan Announced for Airport Link
The Port Authority said it expected to start construction this summer on a rail line to Kennedy International Airport. The Giuliani administration, which also wants a link to La Guardia Airport and can stall the plan if it chooses to, complained. B7

HOME C1-11

ARTS C13-20

New Battle Over Arts Funding
The chairman of a House subcommittee said he planned hearings on what he called the National Endowment for the Arts's support for "repugnant" art. He spoke as more than 400 artists and representatives of arts organizations lobbied Congress for more money for the arts. C13

SPORTS B12-19
 
N.F.L. Again Rejects Replays
N.F.L. owners voted against bringing back instant replay. But the proposal came closer to approval than it had since replays were dropped in 1992. B13

BUSINESS DAY D1-21

Sale of Office Stores Proposed
Staples and Office Depot said they would sell 63 stores to their lone remaining competitor, Officemax, to overcome the Federal Trade Commission's objections to their proposed merger. The commission had no immediate reaction. D1

2 Insurance Brokers to Merge
The Marsh & McLennan Companies and Johnson & Higgins, two giant New York insurance brokerages, announced a $1.8 billion merger. The new company will be the world's largest insurance broker. D1

Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D22

John R. Boyd
The Air Force fighter pilot who wrote the bible of air-to-air combat was 70. D22
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: The White House and the F.B.I., Mideast impasse, progress on the Yellowstone mine.
Columns: Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Chronicle D28
 
Bridge C20

Crossword C18
 
Weather C20

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); ALBANIA (95%); MEXICO (95%); NIGERIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (89%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); ALBANIA (95%); MEXICO (95%); NIGERIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (89%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); EXTORTION (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ARMIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); BOMBINGS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



294 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Confronting Medicare

 BODY:
To The Home Section:
It is no wonder that Medicare expenses continue to grow at double the inflation rate, when nonessential health problems like erectile dysfunction (impotence) are covered ("How One Man Confronted and Conquered Impotence," Feb. 6). The evaluation of impotence is very expensive (more than $5,000 in many cases) and rarely changes the therapy. The therapies are expensive (penile prosthesis is $3,000, not including the fees for the surgeon, anesthesiology and hospitalization) and injections or urethral instillations are $25 to $50 a dose. 
 The diversion of scarce health-care dollars to nonessential health problems is wrong. Impotence, prostate ultrasonography, urine flow rates and urodynamics represent a waste of health dollars as they are unnecessary, inaccurate and expensive. Eliminating nonessential services will correct a great deal of Medicare's financial problems.
 
W. REID PITTS JR., M.D.
New York
 
Associate Professor of
Urology, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical College

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (84%); NEW YORK, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: IMPOTENCE; MEDICARE SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); UROLOGY (88%); ANESTHETICS (86%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (72%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (55%); 

PERSON: PITTS, W REID JR (DR)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



295 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Republican Demand: A Realistic Budget

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Trying to turn up the public and political pressure on President Clinton over budget negotiations, House Republicans today approved a nonbinding resolution that would require the White House to submit a second budget to replace one that Congressional analysts say is flawed.
The budget resolution passed on a vote of 231 to 197. 
 Democrats called the vote "a cynical attempt to make the President look bad."
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the Republican majority leader, said he hoped Mr. Clinton would accept the resolution as "as an invitation and an encouragement."
The Administration insisted again today that it would not send a new budget to Congress. Instead, it renewed calls for the Republican majority to offer its alternative.
"I think the resolution is totally unhelpful," said Franklin D. Raines, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. "It is a diversion from the real work and is a weak effort to try to disguise the fact that the President has the only detailed budget before the nation."
The resolution carries no legal weight and does not require matching action in the Senate, but House Republicans used the debate today to set their benchmark in the budget negotiations.
"While we, as the Congress, are committed to negotiating a balanced budget agreement with the White House, there is one non-negotiable item determined by the American taxpayer," said Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, the Republican of upstate New York who heads the Rules Committee. "Any budget agreement must achieve balance in 2002 by using Congressional Budget Office scoring."
A recent analysis of the Clinton plan by the Congressional Budget Office found that it had used overly optimistic assumptions about the performance of the economy and would actually leave a $69 billion deficit in 2002.
Unless the White House agrees to a budget that balances by Congressional Budget Office calculations, Mr. Solomon vowed today that he would use his position as rules chairman to block the Clinton plan.
"Actually achieving balance through real and significant spending cuts is the whole ball game," he said.
Republicans also complained that the Clinton budget put off a major part of its deficit reduction until two years after Mr. Clinton's second term has expired; does not save Medicare from bankruptcy, and provides no permanent tax break.
Even as Mr. Armey was affirming the Republicans' commitment to tax cuts, however, another senior House Republican leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, was questioning that strategy.
"We might find ourselves in a position where we are better served fighting over spending first and then going after tax cuts," Mr. DeLay said in an interview with The Associated Press.
Mr. DeLay is the House majority whip, the No. 3 Republican leader, but his idea is likely to be unpopular with Mr. Armey and many other Republicans who have made tax cuts the centerpiece of their politics.
Mr. Delay's spokesman, John Feehery, said the majority whip was not backing away from his commitment to tax cuts, but was suggesting that the issue be taken up later in the year.
"The idea is to get the spending cuts done and signed by the President and then later on get a tax cut that might be even more substantial," Mr. Feehery said.
The resolution that passed the House today requests that the President submit to Congress "a detailed plan that balances the budget" by April 7, eight days before the statutory deadline for completion of the Federal spending plan.
Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee, called the resolution "pointless."
"The President has already sent us a budget that fully complies with the budget act," Mr. Spratt said.
The Congressional Budget Act requires the House and the Senate to agree on a budget by April 15.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); MEDICARE (60%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); FRANK RAINES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



296 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Congress Seeks Ways to Chastise Mexico on Drugs

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
Bending to Clinton Administration pressure, Congress began struggling today for a way to criticize Mexico over its lapses in fighting drugs without disrupting the Mexican economy.
The White House warned today that President Clinton might veto a House bill that would overturn his recent finding that Mexico was "fully cooperating" with the United States in fighting drug trafficking, even though the measure would permit the President to spare Mexico the economic sanctions imposed on countries that are designated as not cooperating. A vote on the bill is scheduled for Thursday. 
 There seemed little likelihood that Congress would approve such a bill, at least not soon. Committees in both houses are seeking milder expressions of unhappiness after Administration officials and business executives warned that "decertifying" Mexico -- labeling the country uncooperative -- ran the risk of undermining foreign investors' confidence.
Administration officials, including Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, have warned that the bill, if it becomes law, could deal a blow to the Mexican economy comparable to the sudden devaluation of the peso two years ago; that led to a financial crisis that forced the Administration to stitch together a bailout plan, though Mexico has repaid the $12.5 billion in United States loans.
Officials have also said they fear that a Congressional condemnation would lead to a political backlash in Mexico that would reduce its efforts to combat drugs, not increase them.
As senior officials sought to reassure Congress today about Mexican efforts to fight drugs, prosecutors at a civil trial in Houston were painting a picture of pervasive corruption in Mexico: A former police agent testified that he had delivered suitcases full of cash to Mexico's top drug official. [Page A12.]
The first Congressional effort to find a way out of the certification quandary without appearing indifferent toward narcotics corruption will be a House proposal to leave the certification in place if President Clinton, within 90 days, reports he has received "reliable assurance of substantial progress" toward a variety of anti-drug goals.
Such assurances would include commitments to extradite Mexicans indicted for crimes, to allow United States drug agents to carry handguns in Mexico and to develop a radar net to track drug traffickers' planes.
The Administration took no position on that proposal, put forward today by House Republican leaders, but Democrats warned that it too might invite a veto. Lesser proposals being debated include a "sense of Congress" resolution that would urge both the United States and Mexican Governments to make progress on fighting drugs.
The legal effect of labeling Mexico uncooperative would be to bar foreign aid to Mexico, of which there is very little, and to require the United States to vote against loans by international lending institutions.
Administration witnesses warned again today that grave results would follow. Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, told a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee that the "true damage would come from undercutting our support for those in Mexico committed to reform, and from undermining investor confidence in the close cooperation between our countries and in the strength of our American commitment to work with Mexico."
Barry R. McCaffrey, director of the White House office of National Drug Control Policy, told the Senators that decertification "would impair our ability to effect cooperative counter-drug efforts."
He said that the current situation was "extremely explosive" and that the Mexican Government had already been harshly criticized for "excessive deference of their sovereignty to the United States."
Their testimony seemed to have an impact but left some Senators plainly frustrated. Senator Paul Coverdell, the Georgia Republican who heads the Western Hemisphere subcommittee, repeatedly told Administration witnesses that while he did not want to inflame Mexican opinion, "the status quo will not do."
Other senators were blunter. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, said, "I did not agree with anything that Mr. Summers said about how things could get worse."
She also praised today's testimony by Thomas A. Constantine, head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, whose description of Mexican corruption and the influence of narcotics cartels appeared grimmer than the accounts by other Administration witnesses.
Mr. Constantine said he was taking no position on whether Mexico should be certified as cooperative. But he said the Administration's finding that Colombia was not fully cooperating had spurred anti-drug efforts there, and some Senators took that as an argument for the same step toward Mexico.
One advocate of that view, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, complained that too much concern was being offered about Mexico's hurt feelings. "We're getting window dressing," he said.
In the House, Republican leaders swung behind the 90-day extension today, saying it was intended to focus attention on the Administration's failure to win important Mexican cooperation. That proposal would also allow certification only if the President obtained "assurances of substantial progress by, and commitments from" Mexico to take "concrete measures to find and eliminate law enforcement corruption" and to "cooperate fully with United States law enforcement personnel on narcotics control." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); VETO (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICS (77%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); EXTRADITION (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); WITNESSES (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); TRENDS (65%); RADAR SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



297 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

President Postpones Plan To Set Up Inflation Panel
President Clinton has shelved for now the idea of establishing a commission to recalculate the way in which Social Security and other benefit payments are adjusted for inflation, Administration officials said.
The officials said talks with members of Congress suggested the issue of creating the panel was so divisive that it might poison the entire budget-making process. But they said the idea may be revived later. [Page A1.]
 
Fed Reports Moderate Wage Gains
Despite a persistently low unemployment rate, American workers have generally been unable to win significantly higher pay, while improved productivity has enabled companies to keep costs in check, the Federal Reserve's latest survey of economic conditions suggested. As a result, the economy is making only moderate gains that would not seem to press the Fed to raise interest rates. [D4.] 

BankAmerica Fills Key Job
BankAmerica, filling one of the most prominent open jobs in banking, chose Eugene Lockhart, left, the chief executive of Mastercard International, as president of its consumer banking division. Mastercard, in turn, named Robert Selander, who had run its European operations, to replace Mr. Lockhart. [D4.]
 
G.E. Paid Welch $6.3 Million
John F. Welch Jr., the chairman and chief executive of General Electric, was paid $6.3 million in salary and bonus last year, an 18.4 percent increase over 1995. [D4.]
 
Sylvan Learning Plans Acquisition
Sylvan Learning Systems agreed to buy the once-troubled National Education Corporation for about $750 million in stock. [D6.]
 
Two Retailers Report Profits
Toys "R" Us reported a fourfold rise in earnings, after charges, while Woolworth moved onto profitable ground. [D19.]
 
General Mills Posts 5.6% Gain
General Mills, in line with forecasts, reported a 5.6 percent earnings gain, despite drops in sales and domestic cereal volume. [D21.]
 
Smith Barney and Lehman Fined
Several thousand account holders at Smith Barney and Lehman Brothers who were overcharged when they sold mutual funds, will receive $5.6 million in refunds, regulators said. The firms were fined $250,000 each. [D2.]
 
G.M. Parts' Profits Prop Up Cars
G.M., after decades of secrecy, broke out financial information on its sprawling auto parts operations. It confirmed what analysts had long suspected: profits from the auto parts division, Delphi Automotive Systems, were propping up otherwise weak results in the car-building business. [D6.]
 
Real Estate Companies to Merge
Bernard Mendik, a New York landlord, plans to a merge his company and seven Manhattan office towers with Steven Roth's Vornado Realty Trust, a big owner of shopping centers, in a $437 million deal. [B8.]
 
Murdoch's Plans Pose Challenge
By going from being a media mogul to a multimedia mogul, Rupert Murdoch seems to be threatening several industries all at once. His plans to invest $1 billion in a satellite television service to be called Sky have made him an ominous figure to people in both the cable and broadcasting industries. News Analysis. [D21.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,039.37, down 45.79
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.88%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 122.34 yen, up 0.53
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Retail Sales
 February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (83%); VNO (NYSE) (61%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); GIS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (66%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (54%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (53%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (51%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (69%); NATIONAL EDUCATION CORP (66%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (54%); GENERAL MILLS INC (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (84%); EXECUTIVES (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); RETAILERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); BONUS PAY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); RETAIL BANKING (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (74%); JACK WELCH (66%); ROBERT W SELANDER (59%); STEVEN ROTH (51%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



298 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON TO DEFER PLANS FOR PANEL ON A PRICE INDEX

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12

 BODY:
President Clinton has decided to shelve for now the idea of establishing a commission to recalculate cost-of-living adjustments for Social Security and other benefit payments that are tied to an index that many economists say overstates inflation, Administration officials said today.
The officials said the Administration was not ruling out reopening the issue later, perhaps even in time to use it as part of any agreement between the White House and Congress this year to balance the Federal budget by 2002. 
 Reacting to studies saying that the Government's current inflation gauge, the Consumer Price Index, overstates inflation, some members of both parties have been seeking to reduce cost-of-living payments to help insure the long-term viability of the Social Security program and to help eliminate the Federal deficit.
For the last several weeks Mr. Clinton has been studying whether to support the creation of a commission of economists that would set a more accurate -- and presumably lower -- cost-of-living adjustment than the price index provides.
But after extensive talks with members of Congress and others, Administration officials said they had determined that there would be such strong opposition to setting up a panel now to deal with the issue that it would set off a political hue and cry sufficient to poison the entire budget process, perhaps fatally.
The decision, which was first reported by The Washington Post in its Thursday issue, is almost certain to provoke criticism of Mr. Clinton from proponents of the idea in both parties, particularly Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican majority leader. Mr. Lott has been publicly pushing for a commission to deal with the issue and last week said that only Mr. Clinton's leadership could overcome the political obstacles to making it happen.
But other Republicans were cool to the proposal, in part because they feared being attacked by Democrats as shortchanging the elderly to pay for the tax cut proposals being pushed by the Republican leadership. And indeed many Democrats, including Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, came out staunchly against the idea of a commission.
At the same time, influential pressure groups like the American Association of Retired Persons and a number of labor organizations made clear that they would go all-out to fight the idea of a commission, saying any improvements to the price index should be made by the experts within the Bureau of Labor Statistics and not by a politically appointed panel.
Opponents of a commission made clear to the White House that any downward adjustment in cost-of-living payments could not be seen as even indirectly paying for tax cuts, especially the capital gains tax cut proposed by the Republicans to trim the tax rate on investment profits.
"The goal of doing a cost-of-living commission at this moment was to take the issue out of politics and to make it an issue of technical accuracy only," a senior Administration official said tonight. "There was a large, significant reaction from all sides that doing a commission at this moment, in this context, might have the opposite reaction and serve to politicize the issue."
But the official said the White House wanted to leave open the possibility of finding a less politically explosive way of dealing with the issue, perhaps by postponing consideration of it until after Congress and the Administration reach a broad agreement on balancing the budget.
"We are not ruling in or out whether it could be done at other times or in other contexts," the official said.
Reducing the cost-of-living formula, even slightly, could save tens of billions of dollars in the next five years, making it much easier for Congressional Republicans and the White House to agree on a budget deal. Given the differences between the Administration and the Republican leadership on taxes and spending, some members of Congress had said the only way to get a budget agreement was to have a bipartisan agreement on the cost-of-living issue.
Efforts to negotiate a budget deal have been stalled for weeks. Republicans have been lambasting the Administration's budget proposal as built on unrealistic assumptions, and today the House passed a resolution asking the White House to submit a new budget.
Administration officials responded by noting that the Republicans have yet to make a proposal of their own and that any Republican proposal would have to include such deep spending cuts to pay for the party's proposed tax cuts that it would subject the Republicans to a painful political backlash. To some extent, both parties have been waiting for a resolution of the cost-of-living issue before determining how to proceed on budget negotiations.
Whether Mr. Clinton's decision today accelerates the budget process or derails it could depend on how much Republican criticism is generated. With relations between the parties already strained by revelations about possible campaign finance abuses by the Administration, some Democrats have said in recent days that the budget process could be imperiled by any return to the intense partisanship that surrounded budget talks over the past few years.
 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COST OF LIVING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING COST OF LIVING (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); AGING (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (66%); STATISTICS (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



299 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: Capital Gains Taxpayers Get No Free Loan;
Risk Deserves Reward

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "No Change in Capital Gains" (editorial, March 10): You would do well to return to Econ 101. A capital investment incurs a risk of loss as well as profit. Wages and other income are essentially risk-free. In a capitalistic world, it is important that capital risks be taken to create economic growth. To tax gains on capital investment at close to the same rate as other income reduces incentives to risk capital, reducing economic growth.
 
CHARLES J. PRIZER
Longboat Key, Fla., March 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: PRIZER, CHARLES J MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



300 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 28; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Serious Side of an Infatuation With Fashion

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
Maybe even important artists can miss their true calling. This idea may cross the mind more than once during "Art/Fashion," a sometimes wonderful, spiffily turned-out exhibition of art-related fashion and fashion-related art at the Guggenheim Museum SoHo.
The notion registers in the show's first gallery, where a bright, dynamic vest designed by the Futurist Giacomo Balla may strike some as more appealing, in a Paul Smith sort of way, than his paintings. It pops up again in a gallery dominated by the boldly geometric clothing and designs of the painter Sonia Delaunay. It is stunning to see Delaunay transpose the ideas of modernist abstraction onto women's backs; a similar translation occurs in the emblematic, paper-doll-like fashion drawings of the Russian Constructivist Varvara Stepanova. 
 The show has been organized by Germano Celant, a curator at the Guggenheim; Ingrid Sischy, editor of Interview magazine, and Pandora Asbaghi Tabatabai, an independent curator and director of the Prada Foundation, and its beginning is thrilling. Designed by Arata Isozaki, who has credibly broken up the monotonous rectilinearity of the Guggenheim's SoHo galleries, it recalls a time when modernist artists and designers alike sometimes saw garments as just another surface for painting or carving.
It can make fashion design seem as vital and creative as any art form, and both an expression of and vehicle for social change. It continues the reshuffling of the art-media hierarchy that started in earnest with the Museum of Modern Art's "High and Low" exhibition. And it infuses some welcome seriousness into the season's most prominent craze: the mutual infatuation of art and fashion.
Last fall, that infatuation spawned the first Biennale di Firenze, subtitled "Looking at Fashion." The Florence show seems to have been a three-ring circus of six or seven exhibitions -- including ones devoted to Bruce Weber's photographs and Elton John's costumes -- plus 18 installations by big-name fashion designers who were set loose in some of the city's most venerable museums and buildings. (Valentino, for example, surrounded Michelangelo's "David" with five mannequins in red dresses.) "Art/Fashion" is a condensed version of what was probably the most restrained and thoughtful segment of the Florentine extravaganza. In its first half, it surveys the interaction between art and fashion down through the 20th century, although it has (understandably) a bit of an Italian bias, and is hardly exhaustive. (Exhaustive would require something like the Fashion Institute of Technology's superb "Fashion and Surrealism" exhibition of 1987 applied to the last 97 years.)
There is a crisply Minimalist dress designed in 1952 by Ellsworth Kelly, and two "slit" ones by Lucio Fontana seen beside three of his paintings. Andy Warhol does Pop, making a dress printed with "Fragile/Handle With Care" labels, while Getulio Alviani does Op stripes. Elsa Schiaparelli of course does Surrealism: her famous "Tear Dress" of 1937, made with fabric by Salvador Dali printed with trompe l'oeil rips, is on loan from the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Certain moments in performance art are recaptured: by Nam June Paik's "TV Bra," worn by the cellist Charlotte Moorman, and, more obscurely, by three found-object hats made by the Pattern painter Robert Kushner in the mid-1970's. The Camille-like sensibility of Colette is summed up by a nearly picture-perfect mannequin of the artist swathed in satin flounces. Displayed publicly for the first time in years are drawings proposing "wrapped" dresses and jump suits by Christo; also on view is his "Wedding Dress," a highly symbolic tableau that consists mostly of a large wrapped bundle pulled by a female mannequin.
As the exhibition moves into the present, further away from wearable garments and closer to art, it gets weaker and weaker. Sparsely installed, it maintains its elegant store-window look but barely scratches the surface of a very robust trend in current art. A tired Surrealism alternates with an equally empty formalism: Jana Sterbak's organza "Nightgown," which has a patch of curling chest hair, and Wiebke Siem's geometric hats; Jan Fabre's sinister suspended gowns made of real scarabs, and Judith Shea's sculptures of simplified pants. In front of works like these, one longs for something by Issey Miyake, Rei Kawakubo or Martin Margiela, designers whose idiosyncratic garments may vary in wearability but usually bristle with artistic ambition.
Only Charles LeDray's strange little groupings of miniature clothes, magazines and accessories achieves real emotional resonance. Laid out on the floor like stolen goods displayed for sale on an East Village sidewalk in Barbieland, its compressed panorama makes one think of fashion's changeability, of economic desperation and of the artist's own compulsive love of sewing. Mr. LeDray made every last tiny item in the piece, which bears the title "Workworkworkworkwork."
The show ends with a gallery documenting six collaborations between artists and designers seen in Florence, including Miuccia Prada and Damien Hirst, Helmut Lang and Jenny Holzer, and Azzedine Alaia and Julian Schnabel. These are conveyed by big, backlighted color transparencies placed in reduced replicas of the one-room wood buildings that Mr. Isozaki designed for the Biennale. Maybe one had to be there. Here, these concoctions form a vapid, frivolous final note that contradicts most of the exhibition by suggesting that art and fashion should be kept as far apart as possible.
"Art/Fashion" remains at the Guggenheim Museum SoHo, 575 Broadway, at Prince Street, through June 8.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dresses in "Art/Fashion" include three by Getulio Alviani, top row, and three by Gemana Marucelli with Paolo Scheggi, bottom row. The two in the center row are by Enrico Baj, left, and Lucio Fontana. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM SOHO (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM SOHO (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; APPAREL VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA ELTON JOHN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



301 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Rises on U.S. Data Favorable to a Rate Increase

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday, in a rally driven by new evidence of American economic health suggesting that the Federal Reserve might indeed raise interest rates late this month. Demand for the dollar overcame the depressing effects of sharp declines in stock and bond markets.
"Today was a pure dollar move, about as pure as you get," said Ben Strauss, a senior foreign-exchange trader at Bank Julius Baer & Company in New York. "We'd be considerably higher if it weren't for the stock and bond markets. It's remarkable we've been able to hold on to our gains." 
 The dollar traded as high as 1.7064 marks before settling in New York at 1.7056 marks, up from 1.6932 marks on Wednesday. Against the Japanese yen, the dollar closed at its highest level since Feb. 19 -- 123.41 yen, up from 122.34 on Wednesday. The British pound eased to $1.5974 from $1.5992.
The catalyst for the dollar's strength was a Commerce Department report showing a surprising surge in February retail sales and a strong upward revision for January. In addition, the Labor Department's weekly report on jobless claims, which had been expected to show a moderate increase, fell instead.
The data came a day after the Fed's survey of regional business conditions, known as the beige book, suggested that the economy was growing mildly with little inflation. This was taken as meaning that the Fed would refrain from raising interest rates at its meeting on March 25.
"What we had today was an exact reversal of yesterday," said Earl I. Johnson, foreign-exchange economist at the Bank of Montreal in Chicago.
Some traders said the dollar was also helped by reports that Guntram Palm, a senior member of the German central bank's rate-setting council, was not concerned about the dollar's strength. Other bank officials, including the president, Hans Tietmeyer, have been saying that the dollar's two-year rebound from postwar lows against the mark is now complete, which hurt the dollar on Wednesday.
"Palm's comments that we've got no problem with the dollar being up here made it go right back up," said Jesse Torres, chief dealer at the New York branch of Bank Austria.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (84%); BMO (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRIA (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF MONTREAL (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRIA (51%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GERMAN MARK (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); BRITISH POUND (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%); RETAIL SALES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



302 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
* Chase Manhattan Corp., New York, is selling $250 million of zero-coupon subordinated medium-term notes due in 2027 through Paine Webber Inc. The notes, which are callable in 10 years, pay no quarterly interest. At maturity the notes will yield 8.25 percent. The issue is rated A1 by Moody's Investors Service, A- by Standard & Poor's and A by Duff & Phelps. 

* Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, is selling $100 million of medium-term notes due in 2004 through Lehman Brothers. The notes, which are callable in three years, carry an interest rate of 7.11 percent and are priced at par.
 
* Federal National Mortgage Association is selling $100 million of medium-term step-up notes due in 2000 through Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. The notes, which have a one-time call on April 6, 1998, carry a 6.14 percent coupon and are priced at par. If the notes are not called, the coupon increases, or steps up, to 7 percent.
 
* Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, is selling $500 million of debentures due in 2002 through Lehman Brothers and J. P. Morgan Securities. The debentures, which are callable in a year, carry an interest rate of 7.08 percent and are priced at par.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



303 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Decline on Solid Retail Sales Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury securities tumbled in heavy trading yesterday after the Commerce Department reported stronger-than-expected retail sales for February, feeding investor concern that the economy is growing fast enough to accelerate inflation and cause the Federal Reserve to push up interest rates.
The Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee is set to meet on March 25, and the chances of a rate increase seem to be improving. 
 Maureen Mooney, an analyst with Govpx Inc., a bond pricing service, said the value of securities traded went above $100 billion for only the fifth time this year. Yesterday's selloff sent the price of the benchmark 30-year bond, by which many lending rates are set, down 30/32, to 95 29/32, pushing its yield up to 6.95 percent, from 6.88 percent on Wednesday. That was the highest level since 6.98 percent on Sept. 24, a result of the market building in an expected quarter-point rate rise.
The Commerce Department said retail sales rose eight-tenths of 1 percent last month, exceeding the seven-tenths of 1 percent gain expected by analysts. Excluding autos, sales rose five-tenths of 1 percent. Sales in January were revised to reflect a gain of 1.5 percent, the biggest in more than a year.
Adding to concerns about growth and bolstering the case for a Fed rate increase was a separate report that first-time claims for unemployment insurance fell by 5,000 in the week ended March 8 to 307,000; analysts had expected a drop of 2,000.
One report that did not point to robust growth was the Atlanta Fed's survey of business activity, which showed a nationwide business slip for manufacturers based in the Southeast. The survey's index fell to a reading of 7.0 in February from a revised 13.8 in January.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said: "The unusually strong retail sales statistics this morning most certainly caught the attention of the F.O.M.C. Strength was very much in evidence in durable goods spending, particularly the automotive sector and department stores sales."
While a strong February number was expected, Mr. Fine said, it was the size of the January revision that surprised market participants. Soon afterward, gross domestic product and consumption forecasts for the first quarter were revised upward, adding to the pressure on the market. At the same time, the latest figures for initial jobless claims confirmed the continuing tightness in the labor market: The four-week moving average reached an eight-year low at 310,250.
"Indeed, since Greenspan first delivered his Humphrey-Hawkins testimony on Feb. 26, virtually every economic statistic has been on the upside, and in some cases dramatically so," Mr. Fine said. "As a result, with the passage of each day and the release of each number, more and more market observers are coming to the view that the F.O.M.C. is more likely than not to tighten monetary policy at its upcoming meeting on March 25."
Although the Producer Price Index today and the Consumer Price Index Wednesday are expected to be market friendly, he added, "It must be remembered that Greenspan specifically said that given the lags with which monetary policy affects the economy, we cannot rule out a situation in which a pre-emptive policy tightening may become appropriate before any sign of actual higher inflation becomes evident."
Traders say the bond market was certainly adjusting for a possible tightening, helped in part by an apparent stall in budget negotiations.
Elsewhere, Michael Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and a voting member of the F.O.M.C., raised investor anxiety another notch. Speaking to the Industrial Relations Research Association in Chicago, he said, "It's necessary to stay ahead of the curve." Citing the experience of the 1970's, he added, "If we don't react until a serious problem shows up, we're too late."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ICAP PLC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); BONDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



304 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Living at the Office

BYLINE: By Michael Pollan; Michael Pollan is the author, most recently, of "A Place of My Own: The Education of an Amateur Builder."

DATELINE: CORNWALL BRIDGE, Conn.

 BODY:
I was tapping away at my computer on a bright summer morning when I first heard, or felt, the sound: a series of distant, muffled explosions, followed by a low rumble that seemed to roll across the ground and rock the foundations of my office.
Were I still living in my apartment on upper Broadway, almost directly above the IRT, I might not even have noticed it. But I'd recently moved to northwestern Connecticut, a hundred miles from the sounds of a subway, and I was at that very moment working in a tiny cabin in the woods behind my house -- my home office. 
 I followed the noise east into the woods and eventually found its source. A contractor was dynamiting ledge rock to make room for a new building at the end of a long dirt road in the middle of nowhere. We got to chatting, and I learned that the building was going to be a trading room. Here in this quiet second-growth forest where I now went to work every day, writing my articles and books, I was about to be joined by a risk arbitrageur from New York City.
In the days to follow I watched as a crew from the phone company unscrolled a new wire along my road (which is dirt for most of its length). The guys on the crew said they were running an ISDN line -- a high-speed data connection that would allow the trader to be in constant, real-time contact with Wall Street. It seems that the true currency of risk arbitrage is timely information; even the tiny lag-time it takes news and market data to squeeze through an ordinary twisted-pair phone line would put a trader at an unacceptable competitive disadvantage. But an ISDN line changes all that.
That wire and the rumble that preceded it were auguries of a new world, and a new landscape. In the same way that the Long Island Expressway transformed the lapsed potato field where I grew up into a suburb, the telephone line (along with the computer, modem, fax and Internet) is helping to transform the rural countryside where I now live into something new: an exurb. If the rows of split-levels with their stamps of lawn out front became the architectural embodiment of the postwar bedroom community, the symbol of the new landscape now taking shape out beyond the suburban fringe, in places like Litchfield, Conn., and Sonoma, Calif., and southern New Hampshire, is the on-line home office.
Since the dawn of the industrial revolution, the realms of work and family life have been steadily drifting apart. As workers began commuting to their jobs, they reconceived their homes as strictly private spheres from which all traces of economic activity should be banished. Historically this was a novel idea -- home had been the site of work for centuries -- yet by the time John Cheever wrote his chronicles of postwar suburbia, the new arrangement seemed perfectly natural, even God-given. We will soon recognize it for the aberration it is, for work is rapidly returning to the home, under the spur of economic necessity and technological opportunity.
In recent years, corporate down-sizing and "outsourcing" -- the farming out of work once performed within the company -- have spawned millions of new home-based businesses: The in-house publicist or systems analyst is now working freelance in her own house, often for the same corporation. At the same time, the computer and modem have made many jobs in the information sector more or less portable.
According to the Regional Plan Association, 98 percent of the work force in the New York metropolitan region commutes to work each day; on any given day in the year 2010, 10 percent will "commute" by wire. Nationwide, 30 million of us are expected to be working at home by the year 2000, more than a fifth of the labor force. Welcome to the Staples economy.
What will the landscape, and the life style, generated by these new forces look like? In the case of the landscape, probably not all that different. That's the good news about the changes under way around me: Nowadays you can build a trading room in the middle of a New England forest and leave only the faintest of environmental footprints. The new technologies make it possible to draw large stretches of rural America onto the grid of the modern economy without sacrificing its beauty in the way that the highways that drove the last wave of development invariably did. Today the economic centers can release their centrifugal energies without necessarily having to sprawl.
That's not to say the countryside isn't changing. As traders and architects, accountants and software developers take to the hills around here, you may not be able to see our offices from the road (and that road may not need to be widened), but we do leave our telltale marks on the land all the same. There's that new Staples superstore in Torrington, for example, and in Litchfield, a picture-book white-clapboard New England village, the old pharmacy with its zinc soda fountain has given way to a coffee bar where you can pay $3.75 for an iced latte. The new exurb might look a lot like the old countryside, but in truth it is as urban an artifact as Central Park.
But it is the life style, more than the landscape, that the home office economy will transfigure, as the man in the gray flannel suit is replaced by the man (and woman) in the gray flannel sweatshirt and slippers, padding up, or out, to the home office. (Shlubbiness is definitely an occupational hazard: Jackets, skirts, even the morning shave and shower are strictly optional.)
If you've visited a model home recently, you know that the American house is changing, as it sprouts new office rooms (often replacing the old "den" or "sewing room") and sometimes whole outbuildings to accommodate work best done out of range of the kids. And it is the kids who surely stand to benefit: One of the great advantages of working at home is the added time with one's family it affords, once you realize how much day is left after you've lopped off those hours for commuting and water cooler schmoozing.
The loss of this ritual is often cited as a drawback of working at home, and isolation (social and office-political) is certainly a problem. Yet I've discovered that the lack of society during the day whets one's appetite for social activity at night -- going out, having people over, even getting involved politically.
The rap on bedroom communities has always been that a society of commuters, with one foot in the city and the other in bed, had no time or energy left for local politics and community activities; the commuter's sense of attachment to a place was attenuated. I find that after a day spent in the solitude of my hut, the prospect of a P.T.A. or zoning board meeting begins to look pretty exciting. A society of home-office workers could wind up actually revitalizing our communities. What might look like a formula for social atomization could prove precisely the opposite. At least that's what my own experience suggests. Is it representative? I'd be the last person to tell you a writer's life is typical of anything. And yet maybe in this one case it is. For in a way, the writer's existence is a model for the life style now emerging.
Long before the trader and the accountant and the software developer pulled up stakes to move to the woods, the writers were already here, tapping away in the solitude of their attics and cabins. Writers have always had the freedom to live out beyond the reach of the expressway, to map their day, to figure out how to make something of their isolation and the gift of all that time. For better or worse, millions of us are writers now, freelance souls set loose by the American centrifuge, making our own way across territory that only looks familiar, building something new.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Philippe Weisbecker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; LITCHFIELD COUNTY (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RURAL AREAS; LABOR; WORKING AT HOME; LIFE STYLES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBURBS (87%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (86%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (84%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); RISK ARBITRAGE (72%); TRENDS (67%); MODEMS (60%); FAMILY (60%); 

PERSON: POLLAN, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



305 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Monaco Journal;
The Heir Won't Marry, the Croupier's on Trial . . .

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: MONACO, March 7

 BODY:
The hair and the brush mustache are white with age, the face worn with care.
Prince Rainier III has carried the burdens of this tiny Mediterranean principality, smaller than Central Park in New York, for 47 years, one of the longest reigns since his ancestor Francois Grimaldi the Cunning laid claim to Monaco 700 years ago. 
 Burdens? Sleek yachts still nestle in the harbors on either side of the Prince's yellow fairy-tale castle, and Mercedes limousines line up in front of the turrets of the Monte Carlo Casino, where gamblers from all over the world pay no tax on winnings.
But the state-owned gambling enterprise, once the principality's prime source of revenue and still its biggest drawing card, lost $30 million last year and expects to lose $16 million this year.
Rainier, 73, also worries that his designated heir, Prince Albert, has not yet married, though he turns 39 on March 14; Monaco's Constitution enshrines the principle of a direct male line of succession.
And last year Albert's younger sister, Princess Stephanie, 32, divorced her husband and former bodyguard, Daniel Ducruet, after celebrity-chasing Italian photographers caught him embracing a former Miss Bare Breasts of Belgium in a pool at a rented villa on the French Riviera.
The oldest of Rainier's three children, Princess Caroline, 40, has two sons and a daughter from her marriage to her second husband, an Italian who was killed in a speedboat accident in 1990. They could also succeed to the Grimaldi throne if Albert produced no heir, but his father seemed preoccupied nonetheless.
"I think it's mostly behind us now," Rainier said, speaking of the wave of unwanted publicity generated by the often intrusive photographers, and drawing nervously on a filter cigarette in an interview in his office in the castle.
"You can't take them to court, and I understand they have to do their job," he said. "But it's become a sort of hunt, and they sell their scoops for so much money it's ridiculous."
The paparazzi reportedly got $1.5 million for the swimming pool photographs, but, the Prince said, "I think the best thing is just to ignore it."
Prince Rainier's troubles began with the death of his American-born wife, Grace Kelly, the former actress, who died after a car accident in 1982.
For almost 10 years he has been denying rumors that he would step down in favor of his son, an Amherst graduate whom his father recently named to head Monaco's delegation to the United Nations.
"I've talked about the succession at length with Albert," Rainier said. "But it has to be something gradual, and it's also a question of marriage. He has to pick a wife and settle down and establish a family."
What does Albert have to say to that? "He gets very cross with me," Rainier acknowledged. "He says, 'I've seen enough disasters around me with people who've married too quickly.' "
Most of Rainier's subjects seem to sympathize with the family, and several thousand turned out in the rain on Jan. 8 for the start of 700th-anniversary celebrations that will continue throughout the year.
"They're regular people," said the owner of an Italian cafe near the casino, "and they've been good to us."
The Prince guarantees all his 5,000 subjects lifetime employment. But over the years his highly publicized family has had almost as many ups and downs as Monaco itself, a palmy, clean place that W. Somerset Maugham once described as "a sunny spot for shady people." Today there are television surveillance cameras at every big intersection and in every gambling room, and 498 police officers for 25,000 residents.
Still, four years ago, after a complaint by an Italian industrialist about strong-arm tactics used to recover loans to gamblers at the casinos, Rainier ordered an investigation of the Societe des Bains de Mer, the state-owned company set up in 1866 to provide an economic base.
The inquiry revealed that an affiliate of the company was paying commissions to strong-arm agents to lend gambling money to customers who were threatened and beaten to pay it back if they lost. Two company officials and three recruiters were arrested in that scandal.
More recently, the company suspended 14 more employees, including a chief croupier, on suspicion of helping certain customers at the Cafe de Paris make big winnings in exchange for kickbacks. Ten were tried on various charges last month, with the prosecutors requesting an eight-month jail sentence and a heavy fine for the chief croupier.
The Prince is the principal stockholder in the company, which appointed a new director general, Michel G. Novatin, a French citizen, late last year.
"No doubt about it, we had to stop using banking agents," Mr. Novatin said. The Monte Carlo casinos, like American ones, still use recruiting agents to bring in paying customers. Here, most of them have traditionally come from nearby Italy.
"Everybody sees the Mafia in things like this," Mr. Novatin said, "but I have never seen a problem with organized crime in seven years in this business."
With gambling far behind tourism, light industry, banking and other services as a source of income, Monaco is counting on things like a new convention center under construction on the Mediterranean to keep the Grimaldi family business going strong into the 21st century.
"The miracle that after 700 years the family is still there," Prince Rainier said, "shows that there's been unity between my family and the population."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Monaco, which celebrates the 700th anniversary of Grimaldi rule this year, faces economic change, inquiries into casino practices, relentless publicity about the royal family and strong public concern about succession. (Associated Press); Prince Rainier III, 73, ascended to Monaco's throne 47 years ago. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONACO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%); BELGIUM (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MONTE CARLO TMC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONACO; MONACO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%); BELGIUM (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ROYAL FAMILY; GAMBLING; CASINOS MARRIAGE (88%); GAMING (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); FAMILY (73%); TRENDS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CELEBRITIES (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; RAINIER (PRINCE); ALBERT (PRINCE) PRINCE RAINIER III (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



306 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Praises Endowment for the Arts

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Members of a House subcommittee that appropriates money for the National Endowment for the Arts praised the embattled endowment in hearings today, amid signs that House Republicans may lack sufficient support to end Federal financing of the agency this fall as they had vowed to do.
Representative Ralph Regula, the Ohio Republican who is the chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, said after hearing testimony from Jane Alexander, the chairwoman of the endowment, that most members of his subcommittee now seemed satisfied with Ms. Alexander's changes and her management of the downsized agency. 
 But it was still unclear whether the endowment would survive, he said, adding, "The mood of this committee may not reflect that of the Rules Committee, or that of the House."
In 1995 the Republican-controlled Congress slashed the endowment's budget by more than 40 percent, to $99 million, and pledged to stop all financing by the next fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1. But the House majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, a longtime opponent of the endowment, was quoted today in Congressional Quarterly Monitor as saying he doubted that Republicans had the votes to kill the agency any time soon.
"The way you live up to the deal is to get 218 votes," Mr. Armey was quoted as saying, referring to the "gentlemen's agreement" struck by the House leadership to kill the endowment. "I'm not sure that the most ardent supporters of eliminating the N.E.A. believe we can get that."
Optimism about the agency's prospects was also the prevailing mood this week among champions of more Federal support for the arts and the endowment. Grass-roots lobbyists flooded Congress earlier this week to press for Federal financing, telling undecided lawmakers that Federal financing of the arts generates far more revenue for the Government and prosperity in the economy than the money appropriated. Arts financing, the advocates said, was good for tourism, for the development of creativity in business and for the nation's balance of trade.
While few wished to be identified, several arts champions at the hearing today expressed confidence that the endowment would survive, even if Congress refused to appropriate the $136 million for the fiscal year 1998 that President Clinton has requested for the agency.
"Our worst-case scenario," said one Congressional lobbyist, "is that the agency will limp along on the $99 million it got for this year."
Representative Sidney R. Yates, an Illinois Democrat who is the most ardent champion of Federal financing for the arts, called the endowment one of the Government's "shining agencies," and added, "I feel quite sure that Congress in its wisdom will continue it not only this year but in the years to come."
Even committee opponents of the agency like Representative Zach Wamp, a Republican from Chattanooga, Tenn., who said he had supported a phase out of the endowment, expressed concern that reduced corporate support for the arts, coupled with reduced Federal support, was causing arts groups in his district and state to suffer. While Federal support for science, technology and other recipients of taxpayer dollars was important, he said, "now that the cold war is over, we may want to revisit our priorities" to explore whether the Government is spending enough to support culture.
"Wow," Ms. Alexander replied.
In her testimony, Ms. Alexander described the effects of the restructuring mandated by Congressional budget cuts. Stressing that the endowment was now a "tiny agency which accounts for less than one one-hundreths of 1 percent of the total Federal budget," it is expected to award about 1,000 grants this year, compared with 4,000 before 1995.
She said her staff had been cut by about 45 percent, and grants to most individual artists, except writers, had been eliminated. In the last 32 years, the endowment has made some 110,000 grants, only 45 or 50 of which had generated controversy.
But attacks on the endowment continue. Representative John T. Doolittle, Republican of California, has circulated a "Dear Colleague" letter objecting to Federal sponsorship of culture. And Representative Peter Hoekstra, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Education Committee's Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, says he intends to hold hearings on the endowment this spring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (91%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (91%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; FEDERAL AID (US) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER, JANE; WAMP, ZACH (REPR); REGULA, RALPH (REPR); MILLER, JUDITH RALPH REGULA (73%); ZACH WAMP (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



307 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Economist Wins Top Medal for Pay Study

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Kevin M. Murphy, a 39-year-old professor of business economics at the University of Chicago, has been chosen as the winner of the John Bates Clark Medal from the American Economic Association, economists on the awards panel said yesterday.
Though the Clark Medal, awarded every other year to an outstanding American economist under age 40, is little known to the public, it carries as much prestige among American economists as the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. 
 Mr. Murphy, according to the citation prepared by the awards committee, is being honored for his "extraordinarily original" study of "wages, wage inequality and the relationship between wages and labor force participation."
Dale W. Jorgenson, an economist at Harvard and a member of the seven-member committee that selected the winner, said that Mr. Murphy's work was central to the way economists now think about the causes of widening inequality. "Kevin Murphy is the father, son and holy ghost of income distribution," he exclaimed.
The John Bates Clark Medal was created in 1947 and named for a specialist in capital theory at Columbia University in the late 19th century who was the first American economist to gain an international reputation. A second award, for "lifetime achievement," was abandoned after the Nobel award was created in 1969, leaving the Clark Medal as the single prize awarded by the association.
Paul A. Samuelson, the Harvard professor who pioneered Keynesian economics in the United States and wrote the textbook relied upon by generations of college students, was the first winner as well as the youngest. Since then, the list of recipients has read like a who's who of economics. Five of the next six winners -- Milton Friedman, James Tobin, Kenneth Arrow and Robert M. Solow -- later went on to win Nobel awards.
Martin S. Feldstein, who won in 1977, and Joseph E. Stiglitz (1979) served as chairmen of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Lawrence H. Summers (1993) is now the Under Secretary of the Treasury. And the others, from Gary S. Becker of the University of Chicago (1967) to Paul R. Krugman of M.I.T. (1991), are academic giants.
"It's a window on where the profession is at," said Orley Ashenfelter, a Princeton economist who edits the American Economic Review, the profession's top journal.
This year's winner -- not to be confused with another distinguished economist, Kevin J. Murphy at the University of Southern California -- graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles. He earned a Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, known for its distinctive brand of conservative, staunchly free market economics. Once in Hyde Park, Mr. Murphy never left.
Like most ambitious academic economists, Mr. Murphy sports a list of publications so long that one has to wonder when he found time to see "Star Wars." But the work for which he is being honored is found in 18 articles on the causes of growing income inequality in America.
This is a well-trod subject. What distinguishes Mr. Murphy's contribution is his careful collection of data, mastery of statistical methods and disarmingly straightforward use of basic economics. "A lot of what we've seen in the past two decades comes right out of Econ. 101," he said in a telephone interview.
From the rubble of conflicting analyses, Mr. Murphy has clearly identified the growth in demand for skilled labor -- as opposed to the rise in supply or decline in demand for unskilled labor -- as the principal cause of the widening gap in wages between blue- and white-collar workers. His work also suggests that the market for skills is functioning the way it is supposed to: Americans have responded by staying in school longer, a trend that should eventually narrow the gap or at least prevent it from widening much further.
Mr. Murphy is now training his sights on the underlying causes, which surely include both technological change and globalization of the labor market. "We've identified the suspects, but don't have anyone in custody," he reports.
Unlike the Nobel, the Clark Medal does not come with a fat check, or any check at all. Mr. Murphy says he is thrilled to be its 25th recipient. "But like any good economist," he jokes, "I'd rather have the money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin M. Murphy of the University of Chicago is being honored for his work on wage inequalities. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO LAWRENCE H STEIN (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; CLARK, JOHN BATES, MEDAL DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, KEVIN M; PASSELL, PETER PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



308 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Keeps a Step Ahead of China in U.S. Lobbying

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Last month, President Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and their wives dropped in on a party at a restaurant in Chinatown here to help usher in the Chinese Year of the Ox. Among the cheering crowd that greeted them was Jason Hu, Taiwan's unofficial ambassador to the United States.
While Mr. Hu did not talk to the President or the Vice President that night, and the White House said this week that Mr. Clinton was not aware that Mr. Hu was at the restaurant, the fact that the three of them were briefly in the same room was a diplomatic coup for Taiwan, which is not officially recognized by Washington. 
 The symbolism was not lost on China, which considers Taiwan to be a wayward province and has long viewed it as its chief rival for influence in Washington.
"Why didn't the President come to our party?" asked an exasperated Chinese Embassy official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
China's efforts to match the intricate network of supporters that has made Taiwan one of the most effective lobbies in Washington is central to the expanding controversy surrounding illegal campaign donations to Democrats in the last election.
Federal officials said they began investigating whether China was making covert efforts to influence American politicians early last year after the National Security Agency overheard Chinese officials expressing their desire to counter Taiwan's influence. Earlier this week, several Democrats in Congress said the Federal Bureau of Investigation warned them in June that the Chinese Government might try to funnel illegal donations to their campaigns.
Chinese officials have strongly disputed the accusations that they made illegal contributions, calling them "groundless." But there is no doubt that the Chinese Embassy here has increased its lobbying efforts in recent years.
The need for a more aggressive effort was driven home in June 1995, when Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-Hui, was allowed to attend his class reunion at Cornell University, the first time a Taiwanese President had visited the United States since the latter broke off relations with Taiwan in 1979 and recognized China. Although the White House had assured China that Mr. Lee would not be issued a visa, it was forced to change course after Congress overwhelmingly passed a resolution urging Mr. Clinton to allow the visit.
The Chinese Embassy has since increased the number of people who lobby Congress and appointed Shao Wenguang, an urbane graduate of both Oxford University and the Fletcher School of Diplomacy at Tufts University, as its new head of Congressional liaison.
James Lilley, a former American Ambassador in Beijing and a veteran of 27 years at the Central Intelligence Agency, said China had a long record of interfering in the affairs of other countries.
"They've been kicked out of more countries in Africa than we have," Mr. Lilley said. "They've been at it all the time, influencing people with guns, politics and money."
But many China watchers find the current focus on Beijing's activities curious, given Taiwan's long history of aggressive and sometimes questionable lobbying activities. Some suggest that Federal agencies may look the other way at Taiwan's efforts to influence American policy.
Taiwan regards American domestic politics as a question of national security and has done so for years. It studies the United States intensively and has brought hundreds of American politicians, journalists, academics and other opinion leaders to Taiwan on free visits. As an indication of the broad sweep of Taiwan's effort, a young Arkansas Governor, Bill Clinton, visited Taiwan four times but never once went to China.
"The Chinese are the weakest embassy in Washington," said one industry representative who requested anonymity. "That is why it is so laughable that they are orchestrating some elaborate campaign."
Even before the Taiwan President's visit, China's supporters here and abroad had been urging Beijing to beef up its lobbying. Unlike Taiwan and many other countries, China has been reluctant to hire professional lobbyists to promote its interests. But as a nuclear power, home to one-fifth of the world's people, and the world's fastest-growing economy, China has won many friends in Washington in recent years.
On major economic issues, like China's trading privileges with the United States, there has been little need for Chinese officials to lobby because their cause has been championed by a broad network of large corporations, including Boeing, International Business Machines and Motorola, that do business in China. In addition, Hong Kong Chinese tycoons and even Hong Kong's colonial government, have lobbied on behalf of China because much of Hong Kong's wealth is derived from China's rapidly expanding exports.
China also has a network of former high-ranking American officials, including former Secretaries of State Henry A. Kissinger, Alexander M. Haig Jr. and Lawrence S. Eagleburger, who act as unofficial lobbyists and then parlay their China connections as private consultants to businesses and foreign governments.
But despite its rising influence in Washington, China has been irritated by the fact that Taiwan's influence in the capital has not diminished in equal measure.
Taiwan has been adroit at making its voice heard, despite being hobbled by its lack of official recognition. The report about allegations of Chinese influence buying, which first appeared in The Washington Post, put the total amount at about $2 million. That is less than half what the Taiwan Research Institute, a private organization closely allied with Taiwan's governing party, is paying Cassidy & Associates, a Washington lobbying firm that has been widely credited with getting Mr. Lee his visa.
Taiwan also employs numerous other lobbyists and knows the legal ways to curry favor with influential members of Congress. In 1993, for example, Taiwan donated $225,000 to a foundation that supports a museum dedicated to the career of Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who heads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Earlier this month, an official in Taiwan told The Los Angeles Times that the island's unofficial embassy in Washington helped its friends in Congress by supplying them with lists of Taiwanese-Americans in their districts whom they could target for fund-raising. The Taiwan Economic and Cultural Representative Office denied that it was engaged in such activities, which in any case would be legal if the contributors were legal United States residents.
The only overseas fund-raising trip made by John Huang, the former Commerce Department and Democratic National Committee official now at the center of the campaign fund-raising furor, was to Taiwan last May.
Because of Washington's long history of support for the Chinese Nationalist Party during World War II and the cold war, the F.B.I and American counterintelligence agencies do not scrutinize Taiwan's activities here, said Roger Sullivan, who was a China specialist on the National Security Council in the Carter Administration.
"There are all sorts of guys in the military and at the bureau who think they are the good guys," Mr. Sullivan said, referring to Taiwan. "In my time it was very difficult to get anyone to focus on what they were doing. How much is anyone watching them even now? Probably not that much."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; NEW YEAR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS ; FINANCES US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (87%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LILLEY, JAMES R ; KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); HAIG, ALEXANDER; EAGLEBURGER, LAWRENCE S; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



309 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy Expanded At 3.9% Rate in 4th Quarter

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 13

 BODY:
With exports starting to surge again, Japan's economy expanded at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter, capping a year in which the nation emerged, at least partly, from an extended economic slump, the Government said today.
Still, economists cautioned that growth was likely to slow again this year as tax increases, to take effect in April, dampen consumption. 
 Adjusted for inflation and seasonal factors, gross domestic product grew 1 percent in the fourth quarter from the prior three months, or at a 3.9 percent annual pace. In the third quarter, gross domestic product, which measures the nation's output of goods and services but does not include income from abroad, had expanded at an annual rate of only 1.3 percent.
In all of 1996, economic output rose an inflation-adjusted 3.6 percent, the strongest expansion since 3.8 percent in 1991 and the highest growth rate among the world's industrialized countries. The United States, by contrast, grew 2.4 percent last year, although at a 3.9 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter.
About 40 percent of the fourth quarter's growth in Japan came from an increase in net exports, raising the prospect that as in the past the nation is exporting its way out of a recession. Over all, exports rose 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter. The other 60 percent came from growth in domestic consumption, capital spending and housing investment.
Exports, particularly of automobiles, have been surging as the yen has weakened against the dollar by about 50 percent over the last two years, making Japanese products less expensive in terms of other currencies.
That has prompted recent warnings from American officials, most prominently Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, that Japan should work for a recovery led by domestic demand and avoid a sharp rise in its trade surplus. On Wednesday, Shinji Sato, Japan's Minister of International Trade and Industry, gathered top executives of the nation's auto makers and warned them to try to avoid reigniting trade tensions with the United States.
Jesper Koll, an economist with J. P. Morgan Securities Asia in Tokyo, said the fourth-quarter figures showed that Japan's economy was undergoing a recovery similar to those in the past. "The traditional growth engines are capital expenditures and net exports, and that's exactly what's driving the recovery," he said.
For much of the last few years, as the yen was rising, import growth exceeded export growth, and trade was a drag on the economic expansion. The economy -- which grew only 1.4 percent in 1995, six-tenths of 1 percent in 1994 and three-tenths of 1 percent in 1993 -- was kept afloat by huge fiscal stimulus, such as spending on public works projects.
But in the fourth quarter of 1996, many of the fiscal stimulus programs had run their course and public investment shrank sharply, detracting from growth.
Many economists say that the relatively robust growth for the year was partly the result of a statistical aberration in the first quarter and of a rush by consumers to make purchases before the consumption tax, essentially a sales tax, is raised to 5 percent from 3 percent on April 1.
"There's a wide discrepancy between these numbers and how average citizens are feeling about the security of their jobs and their standards of living," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith, chief economist in the Tokyo office of Credit Suisse First Boston. She said the economy was still plagued by industrial overcapacity and a financial sector hobbled by bad debts.
Most economists think consumer spending will drop off substantially and the economy will shrink in the quarter that begins in April -- after the tax increase takes effect. A rise in income taxes scheduled for this year will also hurt spending.
Ms. Sasaki-Smith said she expected the economy to grow only 1.2 percent this year. But Mr. Koll of J. P. Morgan expected the economy to weather the tax increases fairly well and expand by 2.1 percent.
Despite the recent strong growth, many analysts do not expect the Bank of Japan to immediately raise interest rates.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAXATION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); RECESSION (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMPTION (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); JAPANESE YEN (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



310 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Zaire Rebel Leader's Big Test: Saving the Economy

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: GOMA, Zaire

 BODY:
Ten years ago, Sylvia Kazuba worked as a teacher. Then the Zairian Government stopped paying civil servants, and her husband asked her to sell goods in a local market to make ends meet.
Now she spends all day squatting on a filthy street, selling cassava flour to scrape together $20 a month. It is just enough to feed, clothe and educate her seven children. Her husband still teaches, relying on occasional charity from parents. 
 "With the small money I get here, I'm able to feed the children," said the merchant, 38. "But it's difficult."
More than anything else, the rebellion sweeping eastern Zaire has been fueled by economic hardship. Throughout this vast and resource-rich land, people are furious with President Mobutu Sese Seko for driving what should be a prosperous nation into abject poverty.
While rebel forces have racked up a string of military successes and are threatening Kisangani, Zaire's third largest city, the real test for the rebel leader, Laurent Kabila, will be how he administers the government and handles the economy in the long run, many Zairians here say.
Judging by their few months in power so far, it appears Mr. Kabila is serious about overhauling the civil service, stamping out corruption and inviting investment from abroad. In Goma, the rebel headquarters, his administration has fixed roads, restored electricity and lowered duties on most imports and exports in the last three months. The rebel government has also arrested several customs officials and one doctor on charges of soliciting bribes.
Banks are open in rebel-held cities for the first time since 1991, thanks to deposits in dollars from the rebel treasury, officials say. Ports have been reopened on Lake Tanganyika, and most days the border posts with Uganda and Rwanda are thronged with importers and exporters.
Some foreign-owned businesses have returned after fleeing in October: the Heineken brewery in Bukavu, the coffee and lumber mill in Beni, the sugar refinery in Uvira, and a Belgian shipping company in Goma.
The Finance Minister, Mwana Mawampanga, a former economist at the University of Kentucky, said the rebels plan in the coming months to cut the public workforce by 10 percent, eliminate hundreds of no-show jobs, raise salaries and begin paying public servants.
As for the runaway inflation that has impoverished everyone here, Mr. Mawampanga said the solution is simple: "We have to stop printing money and to manage whatever we have more efficiently.
"All we need to do is impose on ourselves a strict discipline in terms of how we manage the public funds," he said. "The first thing is to restore the confidence in the monetary policy and the banks."
That may be easier said than done. Mr. Kabila inherited a fiscal disaster. Under Mr. Mobutu, corruption was the rule. Officials collected taxes on just about everything and extorted bribes from anyone who needed government services, but none of the money was put in the treasury. Instead, it went into the pockets of Mr. Mobutu's ruling class, usually ending up in foreign bank accounts.
Government salaries, usually amounting to less than a dollar a month, were not paid for years at a time, forcing employees from customs officers to doctors to survive on whatever they could extort from people who needed their services.
Jean-Luis Paluku, a 26-year-old teacher, has not been paid in three years. "I don't even have any shoes," he said. "We want a government that can give us jobs because to stay in the world without a job is horrible. So many are in the streets."
Ranking members of the ruling party were seldom short of cash.
Mr. Mobutu's treasury printed tons of worthless currency and distributed it through local political officials, who used it to buy whatever they wanted. "It was a very organized form of thievery," said a local missionary, insisting on anonymity. "They printed money and handed it out to party officials."
The result was rampant inflation. By the time the new notes trickled down to the average Zairian, they were worth next to nothing. In 1967, 1 Zaire was worth $2. By 1993, when the Government introduced a new currency, $1 was worth 9 million Zaire. Today it takes 90,000 of the new Zaires to buy a single dollar.
"This is a Government that has driven people into absolute poverty," the missionary said. "They don't pay people. They steal everything."
Perhaps Mr. Mobutu's greatest folly was not paying his soldiers. The army went on looting binges as a result, nearly bringing the Government to the point of collapse in 1991.
The failure to pay the military has been the chief reason Government forces have put up so little resistance in towns the rebels hold. Two weeks before the rebels captured Kindu in late February, the 3,000 soldiers garrisoned there marched through the streets, chanting: "We won't die for 100,000 Zaires a month." They pulled out three days before the rebels arrived.
Mr. Mobutu also spent so little on infrastructure that most of the country's roads are nearly impassable. Its rail lines, airports and ferries are outdated, overloaded and decrepit.
"We inherited a catastrophe," said Valentine Balumetussi, the vice governor of North Kivu, a former pastor. "The main problem is to organize a big country which was abandoned for a long time. We have to begin again from the beginning."
Despite the rebel administration's efforts, the life of Mrs. Kazuba and others has not changed much since the rebellion began last October. If anything, the crackdown on official corruption has meant people have less money in the marketplaces.
The Government runs almost entirely on volunteer labor, local officials say, and many of the civil servants are the same ones who in the past lived on bribery. They are being kept in line by their zeal to help the rebellion and by the threat of prison.
"Everyone, even the Governor and the director of the province, are volunteers," Mr. Balumetussi said. "The soldiers are not paid. They are volunteers. You can't have everything at the same time."
Yet Mr. Kabila's popularity is rising. That may be because many people in Zaire were used to living with little or no money. Now, at least, they dream of a time when Mr. Kabila will reignite the economy.
"We have hope," said Athanase Kahanya, the provincial director of North Kivu.
Another challenge for Mr. Kabila is to change the culture of corruption, Mr. Balumetussi said. To do that, the rebel alliance has begun holding ideological seminars for people who want to join the movement.
After taking 10 classes on topics like "the roots of the rebellion" and "civil liberties," people who attend the seminars are given a certificate proclaiming them members of the alliance.
Last Sunday, about 400 people crowded outside a Catholic school to attend the first seminar.
Mobokani Kambale, a 50-year-old lecturer at North Kivu Central University, said Mr. Kabila would have to deliver on his promise of better wages within the next two years.
"What's most important is not just to get a job but to get a job that is better paid," he said. "I have a job and I'm more miserable than a jobless person. I have a very irregular and miserable salary, three years without getting paid, and once one gets paid, one gets less than $1."
Other Zairians say they are prepared to give Mr. Kabila a chance. For Mrs. Kazuga and her husband, Thomas Samvura, the question is not whether Mr. Kabila will create jobs and pay workers, but when. Like many in Goma, they believe that once Kisangani falls, the rebels will have won the war.
"We are still waiting," said Mr. Samvura, 45. "After the liberation of Kisangani, things will be very good. They are going to pay us maybe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The military was on high alert last weekend in Kinshasa, Zaire, for the funeral of the former Prime Minister, Lukoji Mulumba. (Robert Grossman/Sygma, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Zaire highlighting Goma: Some foreign-owned companies are returning to rebel-held Goma.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HEIO (AMS) (64%); HEIA (AMS) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (64%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (64%); 

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (97%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (74%); 

COMPANY: HEINEKEN HOLDING NV (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAIRE; GOMA (ZAIRE); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (97%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (74%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; BRIBERY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ETHICS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); BRIBERY (87%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EXTORTION (73%); POWER FAILURES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%); ETHICS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); POLITICS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); MARINE SHIPPING (68%); TRENDS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); BREWERIES (62%); SAW MILLS (61%); SUGAR MFG (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: KABILA, LAURENT; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES); MAWAMPANGA, MWANA (MIN) ; MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR MOBUTU SESE SEKO (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



311 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Soar, Making a Rate Rise by the Fed More Likely

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Americans shopped at a brisk pace last month after a surprisingly strong surge in retail sales in January, Commerce Department figures showed today, making it more likely that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates in the near future.
"We've got consumers on a tear," said L. Douglas Lee, economist at HSBC Securities in Washington. "They're spending what they're earning." 
 The latest evidence of an economic upswing -- and the fears it stimulated that the Fed will tighten credit in a bid to keep inflation firmly capped -- sent tremors through Wall Street. Bond prices tumbled early in the morning and the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 160 points.
After shrugging off a strong jobs report on Friday, a lot of investors now appear to be having second thoughts. There is a growing consensus that the Fed now has enough evidence of a robust economy to move as early as its March 25 policy meeting to lift short-term interest rates. Investors may also be somewhat concerned by the discord in Washington and fear that prospects for achieving a balanced budget and a cut in capital gains taxes are dimming.
Consumers pushed a total of $213.2 billion across retail counters in February, an increase of eight-tenths of 1 percent, the department's preliminary estimate showed. The rise was slightly more than expected but the impact was hugely magnified because it came on top of an upward revision for January that transformed a six-tenths of 1 percent gain into a 1.5 percent boom.
The free-spending habits of consumers, while good for economic growth, put an increasing number of people into financial trouble for living beyond their means. Late payments on credit cards, the American Bankers Association reported today, jumped in the fourth quarter of 1996 to 3.72 percent of accounts, the highest proportion since 1980, when the trade group began to monitor delinquencies.
A top banking regulator described the trend in charge-offs and delinquencies as "worrisome" and urged in an appearance before a meeting of the New York State Bankers Association here that issuers of credit cards be more cautious. Many have already tightened standards and some have also raised interest rates.
"It is worrisome to consider that there was a 44 percent growth in credit card losses and a 50 percent increase in credit card delinquencies during the past year," Eugene A. Ludwig, the Comptroller of the Currency, told his banker constituents.
"Growth is far more than people thought," said Debbie Jansen, senior economist at Stein Roe & Farnham in Chicago. This will make the Fed "more nervous," she added, and therefore "raises the odds that they're going to tighten" monetary policy to keep inflation under control.
The consumer accounts for two-thirds of economic activity, half in retail spending and the other half in housing, car insurance, medical care and the like.
The economy, now six years from the end of the latest recession, has recently been growing faster than what most experts believe is its long-term potential. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has warned that he is prepared to move pre-emptively against an inflation threat.
Economists generally maintained today that the burst of spending this winter reflected such traditional factors as solid job growth, a modest rise in wages and record levels of consumer confidence.
But some, including David Levy, director of research at the Levy Economic Institute in Mount Kisco, N.Y., contended that a stock market that has delivered outsized gains for more than two years is a significant, not a minor, contributor.
"There's been a much stronger tendency of consumers to splurge" because of the bull market, he argued.
As evidence, Mr. Levy cited robust total spending by consumers at a time of high credit card delinquency. What is happening, he said, is that well-to-do stockholders who do not need credit cards are spending aggressively while others cut back -- voluntarily or under duress.
The retail sales gain last month was concentrated in big-ticket durable goods, with automotive dealers posting a 1.7 percent gain and merchants selling building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes enjoying a 2.2 percent spurt. Part of the latter activity came from recovery from floods in the Northwest. Sales of furniture and other equipment for the home rose three-tenths of 1 percent.
As for nondurables, the strength was mostly from a 1.8 percent surge at department stores and other purveyors of general merchandise. Drugstores and clothing stores posted gains of six-tenths of 1 percent and four-tenths of 1 percent, respectively, while restaurants and bars, gasoline service stations and food stores had fractional sales declines.
Retail transactions last month were 5.1 percent ahead of the February 1996 level but that does not allow for inflation, which ran at a 3 percent pace for the latest 12 months.
The revision for January doubled the gain for durables and tripled it for the larger nondurables category.
Still other reports today showed that first-time applications for unemployment insurance fell an additional 5,000 last week, to 307,000, reflecting a very strong job market.
The Government also put the nation's international deficit on current account at $165.1 billion last year, up 11.4 percent and just shy of the record set in 1984. This measure includes investment flows and foreign aid as well as trade in goods and services.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales" shows total retail sales in billions of dollars from Sept. 1995 to Feb. 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT STEIN ROE & FARNHAM INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES RETAIL SALES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (66%); BANKING LAW (62%); BOND MARKETS (55%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



312 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: House Votes To Punish Mexico Over Drugs

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
The House voted today to impose sanctions on Mexico for its failures in the war on drugs, while senators and the Clinton Administration worked to reach agreement on a Congressional statement that would call for progress by the Mexicans but carry no threats or penalties.
The House measure would impose sanctions on Mexico after 90 days unless President Clinton reported substantial progress by the Mexican Government on various aspects of the drug war, from extraditions to "concrete measures to find and eliminate law enforcement corruption." 
 But the 251-to-175 vote to adopt it fell 33 votes short of the two-thirds majority required to override an almost certain Presidential veto, and attention quickly turned to the Senate.
There, five members offered a nonbinding "sense of the Senate" resolution as an alternative to efforts to reverse Mr. Clinton's finding on Feb. 28 that Mexico had "cooperated fully" with United States efforts in fighting drugs. The Administration must certify each year that nations receiving American drug aid are fully cooperating or they can face economic sanctions.
Conceding the scope of the American drug habit and the role of this country as a primary consumer of narcotics, the Senate statement expresses "concern about ineffective and insufficient progress by Mexico" in halting the production and shipment of narcotics.
The Mexican Foreign Ministry sharply criticized the House vote, saying it "sends a wrong signal to Mexico and the world." In a statement quoted by Reuters, the ministry added, "The resolution damages international cooperation in the fight against drugs and benefits our common enemy: drug trafficking."
The five sponsors of the Senate statement and the Administration were at work today trying to enlist other supporters. One Republican sponsor, John McCain of Arizona, said he thought chances of success were "pretty good." He said the group was "trying to send a message without provoking a wave of anti-Americanism."
The other sponsors are Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, Republicans, and Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Democrats.
Their task was eased by the vote in the House, which made it clear that decertification of Mexico could not become law over a Presidential veto.
That result was engineered by a group of nine Democrats with Hispanic districts who stood by as a Republican amendment denouncing the Government's drug program under President Clinton passed by 212 votes to 205.
The group, led by Representative Xavier Becerra of California, who heads the Hispanic caucus, abstained, though several stood by the Speaker's rostrum ready to vote for the amendment if their votes were needed. They believed that if the partisan criticism of the Clinton Administration was added to the measure, many Democrats who otherwise favored decertification, like Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, would vote against it.
They were right. Mr. Gephardt, who had spoken in favor of decertification because "what we are doing is not working," was among the 154 Democrats and 21 Republicans, mostly moderates, who voted against the entire package. It was favored by 204 Republicans, 46 Democrats and one independent.
Withdrawing certification from Mexico would reduce American foreign aid, already minuscule, and require the United States to vote against international loans for Mexico, two largely symbolic steps.
But the Administration has argued that it would also threaten confidence in Mexico's economy. The opposition's emphasis today, however, was on the argument that the effort would hinder, not enhance, anti-drug efforts by provoking what Representative David Dreier, a California Republican who opposed the legislation, called "anti-gringo sentiment."
Speaker Newt Gingrich sought to put a very different emphasis on the measure. "No American," he said, "can look at the Mexican prosecutors, the Mexican police who have died risking their lives to try to free their countries from the scourge of drug dealers and then talk in a self-satisfied manner." He said he wanted members to discuss the issue "in a positive effort to create a spirit across the Americas of defeating the drug dealers as allies together for civilization."
In today's debate, critics of Mexico frequently quoted Thomas A. Constantine, head of the Drug Enforcement Agency, as saying that he could trust none of Mexico's four major law enforcement agencies to be free of corruption by drug cartels.
But Representative Silvestre Reyes, a Texas Democrat, said Mexicans would be correct in seeing the vote as "an affront to them and to the price they have paid." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EXTRADITION DRUG POLICY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); EXTRADITION (76%); POLITICS (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (92%); PETE DOMENICI (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); XAVIER BECERRA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



313 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Officials Say Long Island Isn't the Place For Casinos

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: WOODBURY, L.I., March 13

 BODY:
Casino gambling might be a way to boost tourism in the Catskills, but it is not welcome on Long Island, top Suffolk and Nassau County officials said today at a forum on the Island's economy.
"I'm not a supporter of casino gambling in Suffolk," said the County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney. "It might be the answer to the dying economy in Sullivan County and other counties in that area. It might also be of enormous value in parts of New York City, but not of Long Island." 
 He said the most likely location for casinos on Long Island would be the East End, where the greatest number of tourists gather. "But I think it would be counterproductive to the way in which we are trying to maintain the quality of life on the East End," he said.
Business leaders in the Catskills were disappointed in late January when lawmakers from Long Island and New York City formed a bipartisan bloc in Albany and voted down a measure that would have permitted a referendum on casino gambling.
Bruce Blakeman, the presiding officer of the County Legislature, said he had "great reservations" about casino gambling as a way to solve an area's economic problems.
"But I also recognize," he said, "that there is a large amount of dollars flowing out of the state into casinos in New Jersey and Connecticut, so maybe we should be part of the action. So, I would keep an open mind to it in Sullivan County, but my mind is absolutely closed to casino gambling in Nassau County."
Mr. Gaffney and Mr. Blakeman were among the speakers at a forum sponsored by the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business and civic organization.
The Nassau County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, used the occasion to announce a new workfare initiative. He called on each employer in the county to pledge one job to help move county welfare recipients into the work place. Mr. Gulotta said that over the last six months the county had provided job training for hundreds of welfare recipients.
To start the program, Mr. Gulotta distributed registration participation pledge forms to the more than 1,000 business owners attending the meeting.
Mr. Gaffney and Mr. Gulotta also called on the State Legislature to repeal the sales tax on clothing. "Recently we completed a very successful experimental week during which sales tax was not collected on clothing and shoe purchases," Mr. Gulotta said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS CASINOS (94%); GAMING (93%); COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TOURISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); REFERENDUMS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SALES TAX (64%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T; GAFFNEY, ROBERT J (COUNTY EXEC)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



314 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Group Seeks to Alter S.A.T. to Raise Girls' Scores

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
On Saturday, tens of thousands of high school students across the country will sharpen their No. 2 pencils and sit down for the annual three-hour drill known as the S.A.T. And if tradition holds, Asian-American students will do better than everyone else in math, blacks will do worse and, within all ethnic groups, girls will score lower than boys.
The Scholastic Assessment Test, formerly the Scholastic Aptitude Test, is supposed to predict only how well students will do in their first year of college. But despite lower S.A.T. scores among girls, they consistently receive higher grades than boys in all subjects in their first year of college, Leslie R. Wolfe, the president of the Center for Women Policy Studies, said at a news conference here today. 
 It is this persistent inconsistency, evident for three decades, that has prompted the center to complain of bias against girls and to redouble its efforts to prod the College Board, which sponsors the test, to eliminate the gap -- although the College Board says it is the fault of the students, not the test.
In 1996, girls of all races nationally scored an average of 503 on the verbal test, 4 points lower than boys, and an average of 492 on the math test, 35 points lower than boys.
Ms. Wolfe said the lower score "robs girls of scholarships they otherwise deserve." She said girls made up 56 percent of the students who take the preliminary S.A.T. (P.S.A.T.), the first step in competing for National Merit Scholarships, but they win only 40 percent of them.
To pressure the College Board to equalize the results by eliminating questions on which boys regularly score better than girls, Ms. Wolfe announced a toll-free number -- (888) SEX-BIAS -- to call for an "action kit" on urging Congress to investigate.
The College Board, based in New York City, which contracts with the Educational Testing Service in Lawrence Township, N.J., to create the test, denied that the test was biased in any way. The center should encourage girls to develop "a broad range of academic skills," the board said, and should address the "underlying inequities that women face in our society rather than blame the instruments that detect them."
Board spokesmen said the differences in scores result chiefly from the fact that boys took more calculus, more computer sciences and more lab sciences. They said the same accounted for the ethnic differences, which are far more apparent than the boy-girl differences. (Asian-American girls, for example, score 125 points higher in math than black girls.) Studies show that one of the best predictors of S.A.T. scores is family income -- the higher the income, the higher scores.
"The curricula in those courses reinforce the type of math reasoning that the S.A.T. measures," said Wayne Camara, a research scientist with the College Board. "When girls take the exact same courses, that 35-point gap dissipates quite a bit."
Ms. Wolfe said boys and girls scored differently because of their approach to taking tests, not because girls took fewer math courses. Girls tend to work out math problems, she said, while boys employ "test-taking tricks," like plugging in the answers already offered in a multiple-choice question. While girls are deliberate, she said, "boys play this test like a pin-ball machine."
Janice Gams, a spokeswoman for the board, said the women seemed to be calling for a "dumbing down of the test so that girls will do better." But, Ms. Gams said, the board was proud that the S.A.T. remained a reliable standard of measurement despite grade inflation.
Ms. Wolfe and Phyllis Rosser, the author of "The S.A.T. Gender Gap: Identifying the Causes," said that in 1972, the verbal test was rewritten to try to equalize the scores because girls were scoring higher. Ms. Wolfe said the changes overcompensated for the difference, which is why boys now score higher.
In 1989, they said, the women's center found that the gap persisted, with girls of all races scoring 53 points lower than boys (with a 12-point difference in verbal scores and a 41-point difference in math). They said this prompted the board to rewrite the test in 1994.
Mr. Camara said the test was "never changed to artificially increase any group's performance," but he said it had been revised to keep up with changes in the classroom. For example, he said, now that students use calculators in class, they can use them on the S.A.T.
Ms. Rosser said the board could close the gap by eliminating the questions in which boys consistently outscore girls. "If boys were getting higher grades and lower test scores," she said, "this test would be changed immediately."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Boys and Girls and the S.A.T."
Boys have long scored consistently higher than girls on the S.A.T. This gap has been a point of controversy among some scholars who say the test is biased against girls. Two charts show the results for verbal and math scores from 1972 thru 1996. (Source: The College Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR WOMEN POLICY STUDIES; COLLEGE BOARD EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (52%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR WOMEN POLICY STUDIES; COLLEGE BOARD THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; WOMEN; SCHOLASTIC ASSESSMENT TEST (SAT) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); WOMEN (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CALCULUS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



315 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: BITTER ALBANIANS, FACING ANARCHY, ARM THEMSELVES

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania, March 13

 BODY:
Albania crumbled into anarchy today as the authorities flung open weapons warehouses in the capital to arm civilians they apparently hoped would help defend the embattled Government.
Citizens barricaded themselves inside their homes in terror, gunfire rattled across the capital and people bid up the prices of the last food supplies in the face of uncertainty and chaos in this, Europe's poorest country. 
 The deeply unpopular President, Sali Berisha, an authoritarian ruler who has allowed only a facade of democratic trappings in his five years in office, refused calls for his resignation; his departure might help calm a nation where the cities have become armed camps in which reports of deaths have become increasingly commonplace.
At least 12 people have been killed and 50 wounded, according to news reports tonight. And at least one tank rumbled down the main boulevard in Tirana tonight in an area populated by Government buildings.
This morning, residents said, the police were giving away rifles and ammunition from a local storehouse at New Tropoje, a housing settlement in Tirana named for Mr. Berisha's village in northeastern Albania.
"The police are not going to give me arms because I'm not on their list," one man said, suggesting that the others riding away on bicycles with Kalashnikovs slung over their backs were supporters of the President.
When the warehouses of weapons were opened in Tirana this morning, men and boys were allowed to help themselves to automatic weapons and wooden crates of ammunition.
While shopkeepers barricaded their stores, other people dragged 110-pound sacks of flour onto bicycles and raced home. By early afternoon an eerie quiet had settled over the shabby city, but it was punctuated by frequent gunfire.
Foreigners, too, were pulling out of Albania, with American military helicopters evacuating the first group of Government personnel and dependents as well as civilians today, and Italian helicopters doing the same.
Popular armed uprisings, rooted in fury at failed investment schemes that the people believe the Government sponsored, swept across southern Albania in the last two weeks and spread to the north, Mr. Berisha's home region.
Unlike other former Communist countries of the Soviet bloc, like Poland and Czechoslovakia, Albania has no democratic tradition to fall back on. The armed anarchy here bears no resemblance to the peaceful overthrow of Communism in Eastern Europe and the evolution of democratic market economy countries.
"Albania is going to be in a prolonged crisis," said a Western diplomat who knows the country well. "The Mad Max appearance of the violence is not going to be very helpful. It's not Europe. We're into an eastern Zaire situation."
Until today the capital had seemed relatively insulated from the anarchy in the rest of the country. People believed that here, at least, Mr. Berisha had a vanguard of strong and loyal forces.
But today the corrupt police officers and the ragtag soldiers, who are paid $2 a month, left when the weapons storehouses were flung open.
About 300 prisoners from the Central Jail were released during the mayhem, including two archenemies of Mr. Berisha: the leader of the Socialist Party, Fatos Nano, who was jailed on corruption charges after what Washington referred to as a politically motivated trial, and the last Communist leader of Albania, Ramiz Alia.
Albanians themselves were unsure whether to call the violence a civil war, a revolution, a popular uprising or just plain chaos.
In Tirana, there was a strong sense that the arming of civilians today was organized by Mr. Berisha and a handful of remaining loyalists from his hometown in the north. Several opposition leaders charged that Mr. Berisha had deliberately created the upheaval as a way of insuring that he remained in power.
Opposition leaders said Shaban Memia, head of the organizing committee of Mr. Berisha's Democratic Party, was responsible for the arming of people in Tirana today.
Mr. Berisha acknowledged today that he had sent Mr. Memia out into the streets today, but only to "calm things down," according to Skender Gjinushi, an opposition leader.
In an effort to focus Europe's attention on his crisis, Mr. Berisha appealed late today for the European Union and NATO to send peacekeeping troops to restore order. But propping up Mr. Berisha's Government has not been a priority, and the sentiment in Europe and the United States has been that the first step toward restoring order would be Mr. Berisha's resignation.
When he came to power in 1992, Mr. Berisha, a former member of the Communist Party, presented himself as an emotional anti-Communist who had only disgust for the hard-line regime of Enver Hoxha, the country's longtime Communist leader.
Mr. Berisha immediately set about stripping the courts, the Government bureaucracy and the army of the people who had served under Mr. Hoxha. Many of those people came from the south, which is considered the more educated and literate part of the country.
Mr. Berisha placed his own kinsmen from the north in important posts and packed the courts, for example, with judges who were high school graduates with only four months of legal training. His associates from Tropoje were also placed in senior positions in his political party.
Today a coalition Government was sworn in, bringing members of the opposition into Mr. Berisha's governing circle.
But in the areas surrounding the capital, every mind was on revolution or self-defense.
In Rreshen, 55 miles north of the capital, two 10-year-old girls proudly marched down the road dragging rifles by a piece of string because they were too heavy to carry.
The country's biggest port, Durres, about 25 miles west of the capital, was filled with people carrying and shooting freshly stolen weapons today. By late morning food and clothing stores were being looted.
When the military depots in Mr. Berisha's hometown, Tropoje, were broken into three days ago, Western diplomats wondered whether the action had been sanctioned by the Government. If so, they said, it brought the chaos in Albania closer to a civil war between the north and the south or at least between the small element of Berisha supporters and the rest of the population.
Mr. Berisha's appeal to Europe and NATO today was an acknowledgment that the country no longer had a working army or police force and that outside forces were needed to quell the violence, said Mr. Gjinushi, the opposition leader,who attended a meeting where the appeal for help was drafted.
To help resolve the crisis, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, of which Albania is a member, is planning to send a mission to Albania on Friday morning. Their scheduled arrival today was postponed when the airport was closed.
A former Austrian Chancellor, Franz Vranitzky, is expected to suggest during the mission that the best way to contain the anarchy would be to have Mr. Berisha resign. Diplomats said Mr. Vranitzky also plans to urge that leaders of the rebellions in the south be brought into discussions.
For Tirana's neighbors, Italy and Greece, the disintegration of Albania, even with its relatively few 3.2 million people, brings the threat of refugees. Late today an Albanian naval vessel berthed at the Italian port of Bari and the armed troops on board demanded asylum.
The crisis began in January when a series of pyramid investment schemes collapsed, leaving many Albanians stripped of their life savings. Almost all of Albania -- including soldiers, the police, even Government ministers -- had invested in the schemes, which promised fabulous interest rates.
But as the pyramids collapsed and the Berisha Government did nothing to stop the free fall -- it had not regulated the investments in the first place -- protesters' demands broadened to the political.
On March 1, in Vlore, citizens stormed the army barracks and the secret police headquarters. Similar lootings continued in other towns, and by last weekend Mr. Berisha had lost control of the southern districts. His resignation has become the main demand of the uprisings.
Washington initially supported Mr. Berisha when he came to power, in part because it saw his hardheadedness as a stabilizing force in a strategically important region. Albania was welcomed into the so-called Partnership for Peace, a training effort for countries that aspire to belong to NATO.
But when parliamentary elections last May were blatantly rigged by Berisha supporters, Washington distanced itself and has urged for the last several months that Mr. Berisha call new elections. Now Washington officials acknowledge that his resignation is essential. But they also doubt whether even that would be enough to put the Albanian genie back into the bottle.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Americans Evacuated
WASHINGTON, March 13 (By The New York Times) -- As the first Americans were evacuated today from Albania, the State Department warned that "the situation will continue to deteriorate" and that all of the estimated 2,000 Americans in Albania should consider leaving the country.
"You have a tinderbox," said a State Department spokesman, Nicholas Burns. "For the private American community in Albania, our suggestion is the following: Keep your head down. Don't leave your homes, because of the insurrection in the streets."
The Defense Department said the first 50 evacuees, most of them the young children of Americans working in Albania, left the embassy today aboard four Navy helicopters assigned to American ships in the Ionian Sea.
"We're going to be continuing this operation over the course of the next several hours and perhaps the next several days," Mr. Burns said. "to evacuate militarily from Albania all nonessential American Government personnel, their dependents and as many American civilians as we can take out."
He said the United States Ambassador, Marisa Lino, and 17 other State Department employees would remain at the embassy. The Pentagon said the diplomats had been provided with special military equipment to allow them to remain in contact with the Navy ships.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Albania fell into anarchy yesterday, and weapons warehouses were opened in Tirana, the capital, where residents said the police were giving away guns and ammunition. Near Tirana, looters took away bags of flour. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Albania showing location of Tirana: As Albania fell into chaos yesterday, weapons warehouses were opened in Tirana, the capital. (pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA; TIRANA (ALBANIA); ITALY; GREECE; ALBANIA (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; PYRAMID SALES FIREARMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); REFUGEES (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); MEN (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%); HELICOPTERS (63%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (63%); CORRUPTION (61%); 

PERSON: BERISHA, SALI (PRES); NANO, FATOS; ALIA, RAMIZ; PERLEZ, JANE MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



316 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: TALKS ON BUDGET REACH AN IMPASSE, LEADERS DECLARE

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13

 BODY:
Just weeks after both sides expressed optimism that they could reach quick agreement on balancing the Federal budget, the White House and Congressional Republicans are again deadlocked, raising the prospect of another long and acrimonious standoff.
With their earlier pledges of bipartisanship giving way to rancor, leaders of both parties were openly pessimistic today about getting substantive negotiations started soon. And they warned that, if there was not a breakthrough soon, positions on both sides could harden further, leading to a repeat of the bitter partisan budget battles that led to Government shutdowns in the last two years. 
 In the day's starkest indication of the deteriorating atmosphere, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the chairman of the Budget Committee and the Republican most directly involved in early negotiations with the White House, said the chances "of getting a negotiated budget between Republicans and the President are finished."
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, said he had been unable to get the White House to focus on serious budget negotiations. Mr. Lott declared that President Clinton lacked the courage and leadership to deal with one of the principal issues, saving billions of dollars by recalculating the cost-of-living index in a way that would reduce inflationary increases for Social Security and other benefit programs.
Mr. Clinton decided on Wednesday not to pursue that enticing but politically risky avenue for now in the face of more vehement opposition than he had expected from his party and constituencies like labor and the elderly. Republican sensitivity over the matter was also heightened in recent weeks by disclosure of a two-year-old White House memorandum outlining how Democrats could exploit the issue against Republicans.
Mr. Lott warned that unless the Administration proved more responsive to the need for compromises, Republicans would declare Mr. Clinton's budget plan dead and start working on a purely Republican proposal. But Republicans themselves are divided over how to proceed, as are Democrats, further complicating efforts to forge a strategy that could bring the parties together.
White House officials continued to call on Republicans either to develop their own detailed blueprint for eliminating the deficit by 2002 or to stop attacking the Administration's plan. But they said they would otherwise keep their responses to Republican criticism muted in the hopes of eventually developing a consensus about how a deal could be struck.
"Our hope is to continue engaging everyone who is interested in being engaged in a serious dialogue as to how you could put together a majority in each party to agree on a balanced budget," said Gene Sperling, the chairman of the White House's National Economic Council. "By continuing that constructive dialogue we hope things will start moving in the right direction, perhaps gradually as opposed to in a dramatic moment."
Congressional Democrats were more downbeat, castigating Republicans for attacking Mr. Clinton's budget but refusing to put forth their own specific alternatives.
"While the President and Democrats in Congress have stepped up to the line with a balanced budget, Republicans are afraid to even reveal their game," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader.
The Republicans' goal, Mr. Daschle said, "continues to be a huge tax break for people who don't need them, paid for with spending cuts from people who can't afford them."
Today's sniping was set off in large part by Mr. Clinton's decision not to proceed, at least for now, with a plan to establish a commission to devise a new way to calculate cost-of-living increases, which are now based on the Consumer Price Index, a measure that many economists believe overstates the effects of inflation and costs the Government billions of dollars each year in overpayments to benefit recipients.
If the Administration will not support an effort to reduce the cost of living formula, it will be extremely difficult to bridge the gaps separating the two sides' tax and spending plans, members of both parties said.
"I don't think it's possible to come forward with a candid budget, so to speak, that comes to balance in 2002 without it," said Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island. Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, said that reaching a budget deal would be "much, much more difficult" without a change in the formula.
Although some White House officials had been optimistic in recent weeks about forging a bipartisan consensus to set up such a panel, they said they had run into strident opposition from Democrats and Republicans, as well as powerful interest groups like the elderly.
Despite support for the proposal from a bipartisan core of several dozen senators, liberal Democrats, especially in the House, said they objected to anything that would be seen as abandoning their traditional protection of benefits from entitlement programs. They were led by Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, who, as a potential rival to Vice President Al Gore for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 2000, has not been shy about distancing himself from the White House.
More conservative Democrats did not want a reduction in the cost-of-living formula to pay for the sweeping tax cuts Republicans are seeking. And Republicans in the House, still smarting from Democratic attacks last year on their proposals to slow the growth in Medicare, proved deeply suspicious that Democrats would similarly attack them for cutting Social Security benefits.
The Republican fears were crystalized by a memorandum written in 1995 by Harold M. Ickes, then a top White House aide, detailing how Democrats would respond to plans Republicans were formulating to recalculate the cost of living formula.
The memorandum, which was among the documents turned over last month to Congressional committees investigating campaign financing activities, contained a draft Democratic fund-raising letter accusing Republicans of "trying to use a cowardly, backdoor political gimmick to take tens of billions of dollars out of the pockets of senior citizens."
Republicans said that Representatives Dick Armey and Bill Archer, both Texas Republicans, had waved a copy of the memo at a meeting of the Republican leadership recently.
"They told the Republican leadership that this was the trap waiting for them," said one Republican aide. "It scared every Republican on the Hill, especially those in the House, who face re-election every two years, from taking action on an important policy front."
Over the past several months, the cost-of-living issue has stood at the center of an extremely delicate political dance that both sides privately admit was heading toward a trade-off critical to any budget deal: the savings from a reduction in the cost-of-living formula would help pay for the tax cuts Republicans are demanding, while allowing Mr. Clinton his spending proposals in areas like health and education.
White House officials said they had not ruled out reopening the question of adjusting the Consumer Price Index, perhaps after reaching a general agreement with the Republicans on tax and spending priorities.
But the two sides are having enough trouble even sitting down to talk generally about the budget. Since President Clinton visited Capitol Hill a month ago to meet with leaders of both parties, there has been only sporadic contact.
An agreement reached during the President's visit to Capitol Hill to set up bipartisan working groups to hash out deals on taxes and four other issues has so far come to nothing.
Republicans are feuding among themselves over how hard to push for deep tax cuts and whether to put out their own detailed budget proposals. Democrats in Congress are themselves divided over how to proceed, with some eager to take a hard line with the Republicans and others more open to compromise. And both sides are trying to determine how much the furor over campaign finance will wound President Clinton and poison whatever air of bipartisanship remains.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Preparing for a briefing on the budget were, from left, Senators Barbara Boxer of California, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey and Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, all Democrats. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); COST OF LIVING (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W TRENT LOTT (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); PETE DOMENICI (73%); TOM DASCHLE (73%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



317 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: For Business Air Fares, the Sky's the Limit

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
Need to fly from New York to Dallas at the last minute? It will cost you $1,508 for a midweek round trip. From New York to Los Angeles? A round trip is $1,748. How about Atlanta? The fare is $1,046.
Since a bruising fare war in the summer of 1992, airlines have been steadily raising ticket prices for travelers, typically business people, who fly during the workweek on short notice. The increases have hit particularly hard the smaller companies that lack the clout to negotiate discounts with airlines. 
 The average round-trip business fare climbed to $820 in January from $442 in May 1992, an 86 percent jump, according to American Express Travel, which compiles an index of typical business fares. Over the last year alone, the fares have gone up 28 percent, and just last Friday, airlines raised fares an average of 4 percent.
"The fares are at historical highs," said Eric Altschul, vice president for the consulting services group at American Express Travel. "I don't see anything that is going to change this in the near future."
For leisure travelers, fares are also up but for the most part only slightly. Leisure fares tend to change rapidly based on the time of year and destination. And rock-bottom deals are still available, particularly through fare sales distributed over the Internet for weekend trips. But leisure fares are only available for a limited number of seats on some flights and often must be purchased several days or weeks in advance.
As such, fare sales do little good for people like Richard A. Hill, executive vice president of Biach Industries in Cranford, N.J., a company with 30 employees that supplies hydraulic systems to nuclear plants. Mr. Hill, who oversees Biach's travel budget, said that when a Biach employee had to travel recently on short notice to Charlotte, N.C., there was no way to avoid the fare of about $800 that the company was quoted -- except to drive, which his colleague decided to do.
"For a small business, it's very tough," Mr. Hill said. "The fares are outrageous."
Airlines have been raising fares for a simple reason: because travelers have shown they are willing to pay them. After all, the nation's economy is healthy, generating new demand for air travel.
The airline industry has also learned an important lesson in recent years. As a rule, airlines have generally responded to stronger passenger traffic by operating too many planes, which led to fare wars as they fought to fill up seats at the expense of competitors.
But now, after billions of dollars in losses in the early 1990's, airlines are collectively keeping tight control on the number of seats they sell. That gives them greater control in setting fares, particularly for those passengers who have no choice but to accept the fare they are quoted. Airlines are also making greater use of sophisticated computer software to help them set fares on individual routes based on past booking patterns.
All this is good news for investors in airlines, however. The industry is generating record profits -- $3.2 billion last year, according to the Air Transport Association, an industry trade group. And many industry experts say this year will be even better.
Executives at several airlines declined to comment on the fares specifically. But John D. Kiker, a spokesman for United, said the airline, a unit of UAL, was investing millions of dollars to improve service and amenities. "Hopefully, that is getting noticed," he said.
Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines, a unit of AMR, said that fares were largely affected by supply and demand. He added that because fares with no advance purchase were often high, there was more likely to be a seat available when a business traveler booked a flight at the last minute. "Some of that money is convenience money," he said.
Managers of corporate travel budgets at big companies are keenly aware that they are largely to thank for the airlines' recent financial health. But they are not happy about the rising fares.
"Our people have to travel, but our budgets are not unlimited," said Judie Shyman, president of the National Business Travel Association. "Costs are going sky high."
As a result, companies are trying a variety of ways to rein in travel expenses, Ms. Shyman said. For example, some companies are monitoring more carefully whether trips are truly necessary, or whether they can send fewer employees to meetings that usually require a small team of workers. Lower fares are sometimes available if employees surrender a bit of convenience by using alternative airports or airlines. Companies are continually negotiating with airlines to deepen discounts in return for guaranteed business. Some companies, Ms. Shyman said, are even encouraging employees to stay over a weekend in the city they are visiting to get a lower fare.
Some big businesses are seeking more drastic solutions. A venture known as the Business Travel Contractors Corporation, financed by 45 companies that include Xerox, Chrysler and Black & Decker, is discussing with some low-fare airlines the possibility of starting service on popular business routes in return for guaranteed revenue for three years.
Kevin P. Mitchell, president of the consortium, said he hoped to have the first airline operating under such an agreement by June. "The mega-carriers are taking advantage of situations where there is no competition to hold companies hostage," he said.
Leisure travelers have less to complain about than business travelers, since leisure fares can be remarkably low. Several airlines, particularly American, Northwest Airlines, Continental and US Airways, now offer fares through the Internet that are good only for travel over the coming weekend. Fares typically offered by American to subscribers of its free Internet service include a $179 round trip between Dallas and La Guardia Airport in New York, and an $89 round trip between New York and Boston. It has also in the past offered such special international fares as a $249 round trip between New York and London.
Although most flights are fuller than they have ever been, airlines are continually trying to find ways to lure leisure travelers who, unlike business travelers, will stay home if the fares seem too high. The logic of the Internet fares and other specials is clear -- airlines like to get at least some revenue for seats that would otherwise fly empty.
During the workweek, though, there are fewer seats that are empty. Typically, flights on such popular business routes as New York to Chicago are filled with travelers who have no choice except to grumble about the high fares but then book their trip anyway.
At some point, of course, fares will rise so high that many travelers will balk. Ms. Shyman, the president of the National Business Travel Association, said she had an idea where that point might be, but she declined to elaborate.
"If I tell them," she said, "they'll probably raise their prices."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "What the Traffic Bears" shows the lowest economy fare available with three-day advance purchase on most flights during the weekday and the average fare paid for flights booked by American Express Travel customers, who are mainly business people, from 1992 to 1996. (Source: American Express)(pg. D4)
 
Business travelers, who often must travel on short notice during the week, may pay four times as much for the same seat on the same flight as someone who could book in advance. Graphs lists examples of round-trip coach discount and business fares in effect yesterday. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (91%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLACH INDUSTRIES INC SKY'S THE LIMIT (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLACH INDUSTRIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES; CORPORATIONS AIR FARES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); BUDGETS (67%); POWER PLANTS (63%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; HILL, RICHARD A RICHARD S HILL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



318 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Consumer Spending Brisk, Raising Fears on Rates
Americans shopped at a brisk pace last month after a surprisingly strong 1.5 percent surge in retail sales in January, Commerce Department figures showed, making it more likely that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates in the near future and sending tremors through Wall Street. 
 Consumers spent a total of $213.2 billion in February, an increase of eight-tenths of 1 percent. Also showing a strong economy, first-time filings for unemployment insurance fell by 5,000 last week, to 307,000. [Page D2.]
 
Treasury securities prices tumbled in heavy trading, with the yield on the 30-year bond climbing to 6.95 percent, its highest level in more than five months. [D14.]
 
Ford's Chief Extends Stay
Ford Motor's chairman and chief executive, Alexander J. Trotman, left, will stay on until the year 2000, or 18 months beyond the company's customary executive retirement age of 65, buying time for Ford to decide on his successor. Analysts said the move made William Clay Ford Jr., a 39-year-old great-grandson of the company founder, Henry Ford, a likely choice. [D2.]
 
Con Ed Overhaul Agreed Upon
Seeking to enhance utility competition, New York State regulators and Consolidated Edison agreed on a sweeping restructuring of the utility to break it up and give deep rate cuts to big industrial customers. [B1.]
 
A Big Golden Parachute at Conrail
David M. LeVan, Conrail's chairman, who once planned to lead a combined Conrail and CSX, will instead get a $22 million golden parachute, if Federal regulators approve a plan to split Conrail between CSX and Norfolk Southern, a person close to the talks said. [D3.]
 
Budget Deadlock in Washington
The White House and Congressional Republicans are deadlocked on balancing the budget, raising the prospect of another long and bitter standoff. [A1.]
 
Chicago Professor Chosen for Prize
Kevin M. Murphy, a 39-year-old professor at the University of Chicago, will be awarded the prestigious John Bates Clark Medal from the American Economic Association, economists on the awards panel said. [D2.]
 
Japanese Economy Improving
Japan's gross domestic product grew 1 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with the prior three months, or at an annual rate of 3.9 percent, bolstered by exports. [D4.]
 
Dual Efforts to Revamp Quotes
The American Stock Exchange board voted to quote stock prices in trading increments of one-sixteenth of a dollar, or 6.25 cents, compared with eighths of a dollar, or 12.5 cents, at present. Separately two United States Representatives introduced legislation to force the S.E.C. to require exchanges to adopt a decimal-based quotation system -- that is in cents instead of in fractions. Backers say the change would save investors money. [D2.]
 
Barnes & Noble Tops Forecasts
Fourth-quarter profits at Barnes & Noble exceeded analysts' forecasts because of stronger sales at its older superstores. But to improve cash flow, the bookseller plans to slow its expansion. [D3.]
 
Health Insurance Bill Backed
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a conservative Republican, joined Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, in sponsoring a bill to provide health insurance for half of the nation's 10 million uninsured children, with the money to come from an increase in the Federal tobacco tax. [A24.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,878.89 down 160.48
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.95% up 0.07
The Dollar -- 123.41 yen up 1.07
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows percent change producer prices and industrial productionfrom Aug. 1996 to Jan. 1997. Expected change for February: No change and +0.5% respectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (55%); NSC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); APPROVALS (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (56%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM CLAY FORD (55%); HENRY FORD II (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



319 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Jordanian Soldier Kills 7 Israeli Schoolgirls
A Jordanian soldier opened fire on a group of Israeli schoolgirls visiting the Island of Peace in the Jordan River valley, killing seven of them and wounding six others before he was seized. Nothing was known of the soldier's motive. Yasir Arafat, who had refused telephone calls from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, expressed his condolences and proposed a meeting. A1
 
The United Nations General Assembly overwhelmingly adopted a resolution to censure Israel's plan to build a Jewish settlement in East Jerusalem. A12
 
Albanian Officials Arm Civilians
The Albanian authorities opened weapons warehouses in the capital to arm civilians who they hoped would help defend the government. Residents barricaded themselves inside their homes, gunfire rattled across the capital, and people bid up the prices of the last food supplies, awaiting chaos. President Sali Berisha and opposition parties appealed to the European Union and NATO to send peacekeeping troops. A1
 
French Find Child Smut Ring
The French police detained more than 250 people and confiscated some 5,000 videocassettes in their largest operation to date to fight child pornography. Those charged with possession or trafficking in pornography involving minors were all men and included two school directors, two teachers and several others who work with children. A4
 
Berlin Seeks to Expel Refugees
The city authorities of Berlin, uneasy with its population of Bosnian war refugees, ordered two refugees deported to Sarajevo, a symbolic gesture signaling a much greater forced exodus. The expulsion was the first since some 700,000 Bosnian war refugees fled to Germany as fighting engulfed their homeland in 1992. A7
 
House Votes to Punish Mexico
The House voted to impose sanctions on Mexico for its failures in the war on drugs, while senators and the Clinton Administration worked to reach agreement on a statement that would call for progress by Mexico but carry no penalties. Senate members offered a nonbinding resolution as an alternative to reversing President Clinton's finding that Mexico had fully cooperated with United States drug prevention efforts. A10
 
Gunmen Kill 13 in Egypt
Four gunmen opened fire on a road in Egypt, killing 13 people. Islamic militants were suspected. The assault occurred in a mostly Christian village 300 miles south of Cairo and was one of the highest death tolls in a single shooting since Muslim militants began a violent campaign to oust Egypt's secular government. (AP)
 
Chernobyl in Financial Trouble
The Chernobyl nuclear plant in Ukraine cut its power output by half because it lacked the money to buy fuel. It may have to shut operations in a month. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A14-27
 
White House and G.O.P. Revert to Budget Deadlock
The White House and Congressional Republicans deadlocked again over the Federal budget. The Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott, declared President Clinton lacked the courage and leadership to deal with one of the main issues, saving billions of dollars by reducing inflationary cost-of-living increases for Social Security and other benefit programs. Mr. Clinton has decided not to look into recalculating how inflation is measured. A1
 
Turnabout on Sexual Identity
A case once cited as proof that sexual identity comes from one's surroundings now is thought to indicate the opposite: that the sense of being male or female is innate. The case involved a boy who was reared as a girl after his penis was accidentally cut off. The child was thought to have accepted a female identity. But researchers revisited him, now in his 30's, and found he had renounced his female identity at 14 and had chosen to live as a man. A1
 
Man Charged in Cosby Death
A Los Angeles teen-ager was charged in the Jan. 16 roadside slaying of Ennis Cosby, Bill Cosby's son. Investigators said the killing apparently resulted when the man, Mikail Markhasez, 18, attempted to rob Mr. Cosby after happening upon him as he labored to fix a flat tire. Police Chief Willie L. Williams credited a tip received a month ago by The National Enquirer. A1
 
Hatch Backs Kennedy Bill
Senator Orrin G. Hatch endorsed a Democratic initiative written mainly by a colleague considered his ideological opposite, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, to provide health insurance for half the 10 million children who lack it. His announcement gave the bill, which would increase the Federal tax on tobacco to finance the coverage, a major boost. A24
 
F.B.I. Follows Bomb Leads
The F.B.I. released images of nine people who were in Atlanta's Olympic Park before the pipe bomb explosion in July that killed one and wounded 111. Agents stressed that the people shown were probably witnesses and said they mainly wanted to learn if those shown knew anything relevant. A14
 
Praise for Endowment for Arts
The National Endowment for the Arts won praise in House hearings for changes in its management. House Republicans had vowed to end its Government financing this year, and it is still unclear whether it will survive. But members of the subcommittee holding the hearing seemed satisfied with it. A22
 
Hearing Turns Into Bickering
The hearings of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Anthony Lake's nomination to be Director of Central Intelligence dissolved into bickering after one Democrat, Bob Graham of Florida, said the committee was spending too much time asking about things like Iran's arms shipments to Bosnia and whether Alger Hiss was guilty. A24
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Deal Struck in Albany To Dismember Con Ed
New York State regulators and Consolidated Edison agreed on a sweeping reorganization that would break the utility into several pieces and give deep rate cuts to large industrial customers. Homeowners would get smaller cuts. B1
 
Caution Urged on Cloning
Fertility specialists, medical ethicists, a former Nobel Prize winner and John Cardinal O'Connor, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York, lined up to urge New York State legislators not to act hastily in curtailing or regulating research into cloning. B2
 
Missile Theory Rebutted Again
The head of the National Transportation Safety Board went on television to rebut claims that a radar tape showed a missile hitting T.W.A. Flight 800. The board's chief air investigator said so much of the jetliner's center fuel tank had been pieced together that it was not possible a missile passed through it. But the investigator said it was theoretically possible that the tank had been hit by a missile fragment. B2
 
Forget Me Elmo; Buy Beanies
The craze for Beanie Baby toys reached a peak that many New York-area toy sellers said they had never seen before. The tiny stuffed animals cost just $5 each, but there are 77 varieties, and many children are trying to collect them all. B1
 
SPORTS B8-17

L.I.U. and Princeton Lose
Long Island University's appearance in the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament was brief: it lost the opening round to Villanova, 101-91. Princeton, reverting to its traditional form, fell just short, losing to California, 55-52. B9

WEEKEND C1-34
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-15
 
Dow Loses 160 Points
Stocks plunged in the sharpest selloff since July. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 160.48 points, or 2.3 percent, as fears spread that interest rates would rise. D1

Rock Chosen Over Hard Place
Wal-Mart's Canadian subsidiary decided to resume selling Cuban-made pajamas, choosing to violate the United States embargo on Cuba rather than a Canadian law that bars compliance with the embargo. Wal-Mart's headquarters in Arkansas said the Canadian unit was defying its orders. D4
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: The Anthony Lake nomination, Europe's role in Albania, when a comet passes by.
Columns: Bob Herbert, Anthony Lewis.
 
Chronicle B18
 
Crossword C25
 
Weather A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UKRAINE (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (76%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UKRAINE (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REFUGEES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (83%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIGION (75%); CHILDREN (74%); DEPORTATION (74%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); POWER PLANTS (63%); POLICE FORCES (55%); ARMED FORCES (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); TRENT LOTT (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



320 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Burning a Hole in Their Pockets

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 13

 BODY:
In one of his more memorable fits of pique, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo once described the Legislature as "working with two hands to feed themselves from the trough." For all its lack of diplomacy, the remark starkly underscored the frustration many governors have felt with lawmakers' unabashed proclivity to spend.
Gov. George E. Pataki has refrained from such attacks, perhaps because he has succeeded in curtailing the growth of many state programs over the last two years. But this year could be different, for this year both houses of the Legislature seem bent on increasing state spending at a pace not seen here since the 1980's. 
 In recent days, both the Republican-controlled Senate and Democratic-led Assembly have made clear to Mr. Pataki that they think the economy will remain robust enough to produce much higher tax revenues than the Governor's aides have projected. The Democrats say the figure will be around $2 billion more; the Republicans put it closer to $1 billion.
Both houses have also released ambitious multiyear plans for those additional tax dollars. The Senate Republicans have called for property-tax relief and reductions in business taxes that altogether would cost the state $5.5 billion by 2002. The Assembly Democrats have proposed a plan to increase state spending on schools by $5 billion a year by the year 2002. And both house are gearing up to present proposals to expand an array of popular programs.
Mr. Pataki himself has proposed $3.4 billion in tax cuts and additional school spending over the next five years.
At the same time, leaders in both houses are privately saying that they expect to reject many of Mr. Pataki's proposals for reducing state spending on Medicaid, the health care program for the poor and middle class that represents the single largest part of the $66 billion state budget.
Just a couple of months ago, many legislators were predicting that this year's budget fight would be a protracted battle over how to avoid new spending cuts. Now, many are predicting that it will be an extended struggle over how to spend more.
"The more things change, the more they remain the same," said Assemblyman John J. Faso, a Republican of Kinderhook. "It's like many people in the Legislature have such short memories, they've forgotten that this kind of boom-and-bust spending binge is what has gotten us into trouble in the past."
Mr. Pataki himself predicted that the coming budget fight might be as long as last year's, when the Legislature enacted the budget 104 days past the April 1 deadline -- the latest state budget in the nation's history.
"When the Assembly says there is $2 billion more in revenue, it raises a feeding frenzy among every special-interest group," Mr. Pataki said in an interview today. "I would hope the Legislature has learned from the horrible failures of a decade ago."
Asked how he would resist the pressure to spend and cut taxes more than the state can afford, Mr. Pataki, who has gained a reputation for stubbornness, replied, "We're just not going to agree to it."
To be sure, the Legislature's proposals are opening bids that are almost certain to be changed or in some cases discarded during the budget negotiations. But they are also extraordinarily ambitious opening bids, which would have a deep impact on state spending even if they were scaled back.
With so much bipartisan momentum building behind new spending and tax cuts, Mr. Pataki's commitment to fiscal restraint is likely to be severely tested -- as will his skill in pushing the Legislature in a direction it clearly does not want to go.
"I think he has a vision for a smaller, lower-taxing state government," said Cynthia B. Green, deputy research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, a fiscal watchdog group financed by business. "Given the direction we're going in, it will be very difficult to achieve that."
The current debate is in stark contrast to budget negotiations of the last two years, and indeed, much of the 1990's. Under Mr. Pataki, who was elected on a platform of shrinking state government, the state has twice reduced spending from state tax revenues. And during the recession of the early 1990's, when Mr. Cuomo was still Governor, the Legislature repeatedly delayed promised tax cuts, eliminated a host of popular programs and resorted to a variety of fiscal gimmicks like selling a prison to balance its budget.
In many ways, the state has never quite recovered from the hard days of the early 1990's. It has more debt than any other state. Its bond rating is among the lowest in the nation, which forces it to pay higher interest rates. And it still suffers perennially from budget shortfalls.
In view of all those ailments, fiscal monitors are cautioning the Legislature to go slowly, to put more money into paying off old debts or into reserve funds for rainy days. "The vast majority of increased revenue is a direct result of very bullish times on Wall Street," said Steven Greenberg, a spokesman for state Comptroller H. Carl McCall. "That could stop any time. There has got to be some caution."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); MEDICAID (76%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); TAX RELIEF (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HISTORY (60%); HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (72%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



321 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Tickle Me Elmo; Hello, Beanie Babies

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

 BODY:
In Westport, Conn., an 8-year-old girl riding a school bus spied a large sign in a toy store window announcing a shipment of 13 fresh Beanie Baby models, including Pouch the kangaroo, Nuts the squirrel, Bernie the Saint Bernard and Fleece the lamb.
As soon as she got to her classroom, she told her teacher she was sick, scurried to the nurse's office and telephoned her mother, ordering her to make a beeline to the Learning Express toy store for a batch of the new arrivals. 
 The absurd lengths to which the 8-year-old went are being emulated across the country, even by adults. Beanie Babies, colorful, plush-covered, fist-sized beanbags that come in 77 animal shapes with such beguiling names as Wrinkles the bulldog and Radar the bat, have swept from Chicago to California and in recent months across the New York region in a word-of-mouth firestorm the likes of which many toy merchants say they have never seen.
"This is the hottest product that has ever appeared in retailing -- period -- since Adam and Eve," said David Marks, owner of Learning Express, who sells up to 2,000 per day. "Tickle Me Elmo is an insignificant blip on the retail horizon compared to this."
Beanie Babies are not advertised on television or sold in discount outlets like Toys "R" Us. Though a single model costs only $5, few children seem to be satisfied with just one, and many spend their days scheming to collect all 77. The manufacturer shrewdly retires a few periodically, heightening the frenzy to acquire them and, toy merchants say, raising their prices in the underground economy to $1,000 or more.
"I've been in the business 30 years and I've never seen an item like this," said Steve Josephson, owner of the Toy Box in Mamaroneck, N.Y., who has dealt with other hot sellers like Cabbage Patch Kids and Trivial Pursuit.
Frank Reysen Jr., editor of Playthings, a trade publication, says Beanie Babies are the top-selling toy in the nation at independent toy stores. (Traditional favorites like Barbie and Nintendo and movie tie-ins like Star Wars figures still top the list among the mass market giants like Toys "R" Us.)
"It's a national phenomenon," Mr. Reysen said. "It's been going on for some time, and there's no letup."
The manufacturer, Ty Inc., an 11-year-old privately held company in Oakbrook, Ill., that specializes in stuffed animals, refuses to provide sales figures, but Forbes magazine estimated Beanie sales last year at $250 million.
A Ty spokesman, Ann Nickels, said that sales this year are running at 10 times last year's numbers, and last year's were 10 times as great as 1995's. Barbie, which averages $15 apiece, had worldwide sales of $1.4 billion in 1995.
The frenzy has engulfed toy merchants, who cannot seem to keep up with the demand. Virginia Reppy, a New York area sales representative for Ty, said she had "grown men calling me on the phone and they say, 'Ginny, I haven't had a Beanie Baby on the shelf for four days. I'm losing money. When are my orders coming in?' "
Toy merchants and child psychologists say the toy's popularity is due as much to a few strokes of marketing genius as to the toy's cuddly winsomeness.
The $5 price tag allows children to buy them with their allowance and softens up parents who might otherwise recoil at a child's impulse purchase.
But many boys and girls try to accumulate the entire menagerie with an ardor comparable to that of baseball card collectors. Parents soon find that they have spent enough money on Beanie Babies to buy a modestly priced dishwasher.
"Currently, I have 35," said Meredith Turits, 10, of Mamaroneck. "I wasn't really going to collect them, but my aunt for Hanukkah got me Legs the frog, and then for a secret Santa I got Digger the crab and then I got 11 for my birthday."
The lack of television advertising gives the toy some of its cachet and exclusivity. Beanie Babies were quietly introduced here and there in 1994 as a quirky variation on Ty's other stuffed animals. Beanie mania in the Chicago area in 1995 swept to California and the New York suburbs and has now invaded even jaded precincts of New York City.
Because Ty Inc. retires a few Beanie Babies every six months, children are desperate to get their hands on Trap the mouse or Chilly the polar bear or any of the 21 that Ty says will never be sold again.
At the same time, Ty periodically introduces fresh ones, making children eager to be the first on the block with the newest model.
The toys, which merchants say they buy for roughly $3, are designed by the company's owner, Ty Warner, who has them sewn and stuffed, not with beans but with polyvinyl chloride pellets, in China. He leaves test models lying around his office and lets passing employees suggest names.
Ty has set up a Beanie Baby Web site, whose address, www.ty.com, appears on an animal's tag along with an individualized birthday and poem. (Garcia the tie-dyed bear has the same birthday as the Grateful Dead's Jerry Garcia.) The Web site lets children know the entire list of available Beanie Babies.
There are also chat rooms where children boast about how many Beanie Babies they have, further fueling the fad.
The toys do not actually do anything to amuse their owners. But because they are malleable, children like to plop them down on a shoulder or flash them out of a pouch in a backpack or pose them on the couch while they watch television.
Meredith Turits likes to marry the Beanie Babies off to each other. Caitlin O'Gallagher, 8, of Rye, N.Y., sleeps with all 19 of hers next to her pillow, a difficult prospect for a parent who has to make the bed the next day.
"In my class, we bring them in and trade them and baby-sit for them overnight," she said.
Dr. Lawrence Balter, an applied and child psychologist, thinks that "kids are drawn to little animals" and "feel protective, loving, affectionate" toward them.
Dr. Richard A. Chase, a psychiatrist who is president of a New York company, Child Growth and Development Corporation, that designs toys and learning materials, said that girls moving toward adulthood like toys that make them feel in charge within their own imaginative world.
"The beans inside help them come alive in their world," he said. "The girls decide how to pose them. It's like characters on a stage."
Boys seem almost as tickled by Beanie Babies as girls, although they seem to prefer the more aggressive models like Spike the rhinoceros.
Adults will linger at the shelves trying to select just the right animal. The other day, Cathy Gabel, a fourth-grade teacher in Larchmont's Central School, was in the Toy Box in Mamaroneck looking for a single Beanie to embellish a birthday present. She walked out with three.
"When was the last time you thought a bull was cute?" she said, holding up Snort the bull. "This is a cute bull."
Many adults actually collect them. Barbara O'Neal, a secretary from Mount Vernon, N.Y., likes to plop one of her 10 Beanies on her work computer as a humanizing touch. Pace University students line the rear windows of their cars with Beanies.
Mr. Marks of Learning Express said a fiftyish woman spent $2,000 on an antique curio cabinet so that she could house each of her Beanie Babies in its own cubicle.
"I had one customer who told me her car was broken into because she had a retired Beanie Baby sitting on the dashboard," Mr. Marks said. "The thieves didn't touch the radio."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beanies: Waddle the penguin, Bongo the monkey and Quackers the duck. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (61%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (54%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TY INC; FORBES (MAGAZINE) TY INC (61%); TOYS 'R' US INC (54%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TY INC; FORBES (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; BEANIE BABIES (TOY) HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (91%); TOYS & GAMES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



322 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Pact Reached To Break Up Con Edison

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 13

 BODY:
Preparing to transform the electric power industry from monopoly to a competitive market, state regulators and Consolidated Edison agreed today on a sweeping reorganization of the utility that would break it up into several pieces and give deep rate cuts to large industrial customers.
The pact, between the staff of the State Public Service Commission and the company, is the first reached with any of the state's seven regional power companies and is expected to set the pattern for the other six. If approved by the full commission, it would reduce rates for large manufacturers 25 percent over five years, 10 percent for other big commercial users like hospitals and office buildings, and 3.3 percent for homes and small businesses. And it would divide Con Edison into separate generating, distributing and retailing companies, under a single holding company. 
 In addition, the agreement would gradually allow customers to choose their electrical providers, in much the same way they choose long-distance companies.
Consumer groups and Democrats in the Legislature attacked the plan, and accused the Pataki administration of favoring big business over ordinary New Yorkers.
Environmentalists also assailed the deal for eliminating almost all spending on conservation. They argued that the plan would encourage the use of cheaper -- but dirtier -- generating plants, like those fired by coal oil, and increase the likelihood that such fuels would be imported from other states. They also noted that the plan cuts longstanding requirements that power companies invest in conservation programs.
Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for Gov. George E. Pataki, emphasized that the agreement was between the commission staff and the utility, and must still be voted on by the commission. The commission's members are chosen by the Governor.
"On the specifics of the program, the administration will reserve judgment," she said. "I'm sure the proposal, by the time it's adopted, will not look the way it does now."
She also said that any decline in New York's electric rates, the highest in the continental United States, should be hailed. "Finally, after a decade of uncontrolled increases, we're beginning to see rate reduction," she said.
Since taking office two years ago, Mr. Pataki has pressed for broad changes to lower power prices, not just to lessen the burden on residential users, but to help businesses in New York compete with those in states that have cheap power.
States around the country are moving toward a competitive market in electricity in which several companies vie for a customer's business, and New York is ahead of all but a handful in that process.
The Con Edison agreement provides for limited steps toward competition over the next five years. During that period, some big businesses, but only a handful of residential consumers, would have a chance to choose among several sellers of power.
All customers would have that choice beginning in 2003.
Consumer advocates caution that most of the benefits of competition would go to large commercial users, who are the most attractive customers. And they say that the savings from another of Mr. Pataki's plan for the industry would also be marginal.
The Governor has proposed helping utilities borrow billions of dollars at low interest rates to refinance old debts or pay off burdensome obligations and requiring them to apply the savings to rate reduction.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has vowed to wrest control of the reorganization of the energy industry from the state commission. But to do so, he needs the cooperation of Mr. Pataki, a Republican, and the Republicans who control the state Senate. Today's accord, he said, would mean "locking in Con Ed's unacceptably high rates for another five years."
When a draft of the agreement was made public two weeks ago, consumer groups attacked it loudly. But environmentalists generally held back, saying that they were unsure what the final agreement would look like and that they were loathe to take on Mr. Pataki, whom they have sometimes viewed as an ally.
Today, that caution was gone.
"It's unacceptable," said Ashok Gupta, the senior energy economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "It means much dirtier air for New York."
Val Washington, executive director of Environmental Advocates, said, "It looks pretty grim for the environment, and it could be a very, very serious worsening of our relationship with this administration."
But several environmentalists held out hope that the Governor could effect some changes in the final agreement. "We still hope that the Governor can step in and change the course of this," said David Wooley, executive director of Pace University's Pace Energy Project.
The state has long required its seven regional power companies to invest in conservation programs, from teaching customers how to lower electric use to helping them design more energy-efficient buildings and giving financial aid for to buy efficient appliances. The state is in retreat from that policy: In 1993, Con Edison spent $125 million on conservation programs, but by last year, that had fallen to $49 million. And the proposed agreement lowers it to $6 million in 2002.
Environmentalists say the program has been successful in lowering energy demand by about the amount produced by a medium-size power plant. Since plants that burn oil, coal, natural gas or garbage produce air pollution, using less electricity generally means less air pollution.
So, far from promoting conservation, critics said, the Con Edison agreement would leave utilities free to encourage more consumption of their product, as most businesses do.
For decades, New York required utilities to build some of the country's cleanest-burning power plants, and its monopoly system shielded the power companies from a simple fact: the plants that pollute the most, burning coal and oil, generally produce cheaper power than natural gas-fired, hydroelectric and nuclear plants.
Environmentalists contend that the competitive system envisioned in the Con Edison deal would encourage the use of those less expensive, more polluting methods.
Environmental groups also voice fears that New York's utilities will be unable to compete with power generators from other states, where environmental rules are less stringent, once the move to competition opens the New York market. About 60 percent of the nation's electricity comes from coal-fired plants, compared with only about a quarter of New York's, because the state prohibited the building of new coal-burning generators decades ago.
"We've paid for cleaner air," Mr. Gupta, the energy economist, said. "Maybe 10 percent of the price we pay is because we have stricter standards. And letting dirtier power into New York, encouraging dirtier air, undoes that work that progress that we've already paid for."
Over the next few months, opponents and advocates will have the chance to argue before an administrative judge, who will make a recommendation to the Public Service Commission. The commission is scheduled to vote in May, and its decision would be final, pending approval of the plan from a Federal agency, and ruling out intervention by the state Legislature or the courts.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997



323 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gives Up Early Gains; Outlook Dims for Rise in Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar reversed course to end lower yesterday after a report showed a surprising drop in producer prices in the United States last month, dimming expectations that the Federal Reserve would soon raise interest rates.
Fear that Japan would report a big increase in its trade surplus on Monday also depressed demand for the dollar. 
 Traders who had bought dollars earlier, betting that the currency would rise, sold them as the day progressed.
"It was certainly choppy for the day with the dollar," said Ralph Delzenero, vice president of foreign-exchange marketing at First National Bank of Chicago. "We traded a whole range in a very short period of time."
The dollar reached an intraday high of 1.7073 marks before retreating to settle in New York at 1.6935 marks, down from 1.7056 marks on Thursday. The dollar also reached an intraday high of nearly 124 yen, the highest since Feb. 19, before falling to settle at 123.38 yen, down from 123.41 yen Thursday. The pound cost $1.6010, up from $1.5974.
Traders said the pivotal event of the day was the dollar's retreat after the Labor Department reported an unexpected drop of four-tenths of 1 percent in the Producer Price Index for February. Forecasters had expected no change.
With yesterday's moves, the dollar has had three consecutive days of seesaw behavior in reaction to the conflicting outlook for United States interest rates. Higher rates tend to strengthen a currency, while lower rates tend to weaken it.
On Wednesday, the dollar fell on evidence of benign inflation in a Federal Reserve survey of regional business conditions, known as the beige book, diminishing expectations that the central bank's policy-making committee would nudge rates higher at its March 25 meeting.
But on Thursday the dollar rose after the Commerce Department reported a surge in consumer spending for January and February, reviving the talk of higher rates.
Speculation that Japan would report a large increase in February exports in a report due Monday also fed into the dollar's decline by raising concerns about revived trade tensions with the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



324 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Bertram M. Gross, 84, Author of Full Employment Bills of 1944-45

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Bertram M. Gross, a public policy specialist, author and academician who was a forceful and persistent advocate of full employment, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday in Walnut Creek, Calif., his widow, Kusum Singh, said. He was 84 years old.
Although he earned no degrees in economics -- he majored in English and philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania as an undergraduate and subsequently received an M.A. in English literature at Penn -- Mr. Gross played an important role in crafting policies and legislation that were cornerstones of the New Deal, first at the United States Housing Authority, where he worked from 1938 to 1941, and then in Congress. 
 From 1941 to 1945 he served as research director and economic adviser for a series of Senate committees. In that capacity he wrote the Roosevelt-Truman full employment bills of 1944 and 1945, legislation that articulated for the first time that full employment at a living wage should be a national priority.
This legislation also created the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and from 1946 to 1952 Mr. Gross served as its first executive secretary, an administrative post.
Although he left Washington in the early 1950's, for the rest of his life Mr. Gross was never far removed from the debate, especially where Government's role in facilitating job creation was concerned.
In the early 1970's, Mr. Gross worked with Representative Augustus F. Hawkins, Democrat of California, in drafting early versions of what became the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978, otherwise known as the Humphrey-Hawkins bill. And in recent years he served as an adviser to Representative Ron Dellums, Democrat of California, in fashioning the living wage for all bill, which has yet to be introduced in Congress.
"He identified with the dispossessed," said Victor Navasky, publisher and editorial director of The Nation, who knew Mr. Gross for nearly 30 years. At the same time, Mr. Navasky said: "He was the answer to the proposition that economics is a dismal science. He always had a smile."
Mr. Gross propounded his social and economic views from a variety of platforms.
From 1953 to 1956 he was an economic adviser to Israel, and in the late 1950's helped create the departments of public and business administration at Hebrew University.
He returned to the United States in 1960 and entered academia, first as a professor at Syracuse University's Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Policy, a position he held for eight years. Subsequently he served as director of the Urban Studies Center at Wayne State University in Detroit. In 1970 he was named Distinguished Professor at Hunter College of the City University of New York, a position he held until his retirement in 1982.
From that date until his death Mr. Gross was a visiting professor at large at Saint Mary's College of California.
He wrote many books; perhaps his best known was "The Legislative Struggle," a book on American government for which in 1954 he won the Woodrow Wilson Award of the American Political Science Association.
Mr. Gross's first wife, Nora, died in 1981. In addition to Ms. Singh, he is survived by a sister, Edith Grosz of Amsterdam; four sons, David J. Gross of Santa Barbara, Calif., Larry P. Gross of Philadelphia, Samuel R. Gross of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Theodore F. Gross of New York; five grandchildren, one great-grandchild; three step-daughters and seven step-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bertram M. Gross

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); LABOR; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); WRITERS (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LITERATURE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); 

PERSON: GROSS, BERTRAM M; GILPIN, KENNETH N WILLIAM A HAWKINS III (54%); WILLIAM A HAWKINS III (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



325 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: New York's Job Market Is Alive and Well

BYLINE: By Randy M. Mastro; Randy M. Mastro is New York City's Deputy Mayor for Operations.

 BODY:
It was reported last week that New York City was lagging behind other cities in economic growth, experiencing increased unemployment and depending too much on Wall Street. Looks ominous? Look again.
Over the past three years, private-sector job growth in New York City has been as high or higher than at any point since 1950. Employment in this sector has grown by an average of 1.5 percent annually during those three years, and we have gained more than 120,000 private-sector jobs. This growth comes on the heels of catastrophic job losses -- totaling more than 300,000 -- from 1989 to 1993. 
 Last year alone, the city had the biggest single-year gain in private-sector jobs in the past 13 years, according to new state figures. And from Jan. 1 to Jan. 31, the city gained 16,500 private-sector jobs, the highest number of new positions in any one month since July 1983.
Regional comparisons confirm New York City's progress. Last year, we produced more than half of all new private-sector jobs in the 27-county region (mostly New York and New Jersey) tracked by the Federal Government -- a much larger proportion than any in recent history. And we topped every other big Northeastern city in private-sector job growth.
As for the recent rise in our unemployment rate -- from 8.8 percent in December to 9.9 percent in January -- it actually reflects increased optimism about the city's future: Job growth has encouraged many New Yorkers who took themselves out of the job market to seek employment again. New York has long had the highest unemployment rate among big cities. More telling is that our annual jobless rate is more than 20 percent lower than it was during the 1992 recession.
Meanwhile, we are seeing job growth in all boroughs and in most sectors of the city's economy. The top 10 areas for job growth from 1994 through 1996 include bars and restaurants, hotels, health services, social services, neighborhood businesses and construction. Though some claim that job growth is directly tied to the boom in the financial sector, Wall Street's increase ranked no better than sixth over the past three years. Excluding Wall Street, we still had more private-sector job growth from 1994 through 1996 than in any other three-year period in the last 40 years.
While the national economy has helped, we have stimulated our local economy by cutting taxes. For example, we reduced the hotel occupancy tax by nearly 30 percent in 1994. Since then, we have seen two record years in a row for tourism, a rise also the result, in part, of reduced crime and the low dollar. The reduced tax has actually brought in more annual revenue, and several new hotels are being built.
We also helped generate development in lower Manhattan through zoning changes and tax incentives. We eliminated the commercial rent tax where the city's small businesses needed help the most -- Queens, Brooklyn, Staten Island, the Bronx and Manhattan north of 96th Street.
Now the Giuliani administration is seeking the elimination of the sales tax on clothing purchases under $500. And the Mayor wants to eliminate the tax on unincorporated businesses with net annual earnings of $100,000 or less.
Other changes have improved the business climate here. We reduced red tape for business licensing. We eliminated the influence of organized crime on commercial carting costs, saving businesses more than $300 million a year. And the significant drop in crime, better quality of life and cleaner parks and streets have made New York City a more attractive place.
So read the fine print. The proof of our improving economy is record-setting private-sector job growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); 

PERSON: MASTRO, RANDY M (DEPUTY MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



326 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure, World Bank Plans to Trim Revamping Cost

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
Faced with criticism from other nations and Congress, the president of the World Bank, James Wolfensohn, proposed trimming $122 million from the cost of his plan to reorganize the bank and said that he would more closely supervise the payouts made to departing employees.
The board members of the 180-nation organization will consider whether the changes are enough to satisfy their objections during a meeting next Thursday, a bank spokesman, Mark Malloch Brown, said. 
 Several members of Congress have criticized proposals to spend $100 million to $150 million on 500 to 700 bank employees who would leave voluntarily in exchange for lump sum payments that could average $200,000 a person.
At a hearing Thursday, Representative Michael N. Castle, Republican of Delaware, chairman of a House Banking subcommittee that oversees international monetary policy institutions, called the buyout plan "Disneyesque golden parachutes for international bureaucrats."
Other lawmakers have long criticized what they see as the bank's free-spending ways.
William Schuerch, a Deputy Assistant Treasury Secretary who testified before Mr. Castle's panel, said he was optimistic that the reorganization plan would be approved by the bank's board.
But he characterized as "pretty high" the estimates that employees would receive buyout payments equivalent to one month's pay for each year of service. He said the United States was reviewing severance packages offered by other development institutions.
Mr. Malloch Brown said the bank planned to keep the severance payments below $200,000 each and closer to the $180,000 offered in a previous revamping.
He also said the total cost of the buyout would most likely be closer to $100 million than the $200 million in the original proposal.
Mr. Malloch Brown and Treasury officials emphasized that the reorganization would be financed completely from the bank's commercial lending operations and not by taxpayer funds from the bank's donor nations.
To answer concerns expressed by various governments that the initial $420 million plan was too expensive, Mr. Malloch Brown said the bank had also proposed trimming an estimated $122 million in costs between now and 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) WORLD BANK (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (54%); 

PERSON: WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D MICHAEL N CASTLE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



327 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Banks' Earnings in 1996 Highest Ever

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
United States commercial banks earned $52.4 billion in 1996, the highest level ever, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Bank earnings for 1996 were up 7.5 percent from $48.7 billion in 1995. Fourth-quarter earnings were up 4.4 percent, to $13.7 billion, the F.D.I.C. said, from $13.2 billion in the third quarter. 
 The F.D.I.C. said the increase in annual earnings resulted from growth in noninterest income, like fees and service charges, and wider interest rate margins.
Fourth-quarter profits were also paced by growth in noninterest income.
Before this year, the highest bank earnings on record came in 1995. Banks posted their best quarterly earnings in the third quarter of 1995, when they reported $13.83 billion in profits.
Banks' average return on assets in 1996, a basic measure of profitability, rose to 1.19 percent, up from 1.17 percent in 1995. Fourth-quarter return on assets rose to 1.21 percent, up from 1.19 percent in the third quarter.
The number of banks on the F.D.I.C.'s problem list totaled 89 institutions with $6.8 billion in assets at the end of the fourth quarter, compared with 89 banks with $7 billion in assets at the end of the third quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



328 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Credit Unions Still Deserve Tax Exemption

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Credit Unions' Outdated Tax Breaks" (editorial, March 8) compares large credit unions with commercial banks and concludes that the credit unions are "just like banks" and should be stripped of their tax-exempt status. Credit unions -- even big ones -- aren't "just like banks." They are not-for-profit cooperatives, and the differences between banks and credit unions justify the credit unions' tax exemption. 
 Take the Municipal Credit Union in New York City. With more than 200,000 members and a full range of financial services, it does not resemble the Depression-era credit unions you celebrate. It offers mortgages, car loans and the convenience of automatic teller machines. But it also serves many low-income New Yorkers who don't qualify for bank credit and who would otherwise be at the mercy of the check-cashers and the loan sharks.
In the last three years, Municipal Credit Union made $345,000 worth of low or no-interest loans to provide seed money for five credit unions in low-income areas. Since 1994 Municipal has awarded 60 scholarships of $1,000 each to members, their children and grandchildren so that inner-city New Yorkers will have a chance to go to college. How many banks in New York can claim to serve the community as well as that?
Our tax code stimulates and rewards a variety of activities that serve the public interest. We let people deduct the interest on their mortgages to encourage home ownership, we give tax credits for the restoration of historic buildings and deductions for charitable contributions. We also give tax exemptions to not-for-profit credit unions because they serve the American people in ways banks don't.
 
DANIEL A. MICA
KENNETH ROBINSON
Washington, March 12, 1997
 
The writers are presidents and chief executives of, respectively, the Credit Union National Assn. and the National Assn. of Federal Credit Unions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS; TAX EXEMPTIONS; TAXATION; BANKS AND BANKING TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CREDIT UNIONS (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); CHARITIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: MICA, DANIEL A; ROBINSON, KENNETH

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



329 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Even a Big Donor Can Find Political Dividends Elusive

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
Few have spread money around this city like Carl H. Lindner, the man behind Chiquita Bananas. He let Bob Dole fly around on jets that belong to his family's financial empire. He and his company, American Financial Corporation, donated more than $400,000 to the Democrats since 1993, enough to insure that he got both coffee at the White House and a night in the Lincoln Bedroom.
Along with his checks, Mr. Lindner delivered the message that Europe has visited many injustices on the banana business -- and on Chiquita. He has pressed for ways to punish the Europeans for their arcane banana restrictions, which favor bananas grown in Europe and its former colonies. Those rules make it enormously difficult to sell bananas grown in Latin America -- including hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of Chiquitas -- to European consumers. 
 Next week, Mr. Lindner will probably learn whether the huge investment he has made in Washington will bring any returns. The World Trade Organization is expected to hand down its first decision on Europe's banana rules, in a case that the Clinton Administration has pressed on Chiquita's behalf.
But by most accounts, Mr. Lindner, who virtually never grants interviews and would not comment for this article, is not a happy man. He wanted decisive, swift action from Washington. He got something well short of that.
Mr. Lindner's tale, in fact, is a cautionary one to big contributors. Buying influence is harder than it looks these days, especially when your problems involve multibillion-dollar disputes over international trade. In the old days, a loud enough complaint -- and nothing speaks louder than big donations -- often resulted in trade sanctions against the offending government. Now it ends up in the court of world trade, which moves at the speed of a banana boat and rarely results in a truly satisfying victory.
That point is often made these days by Clinton Administration officials, who are a bit touchy about the fact that Mr. Lindner's company, American Financial Corporation, made some of its generous contributions to the Democratic National Committee just as the Administration was trying to decide how to handle the banana problem.
"My impression at the time was that Chiquita was quite disappointed that U.S.T.R. did not opt for imposing sanctions," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States Trade Representative, who was in the No. 2 trade post for most of Mr. Clinton's first term. "Instead, we brought the case to a W.T.O. dispute body."
Mr. Lindner's aides say that he has given to both parties for decades and that his political contributions are a fraction of his charitable contributions. Federal records show that since 1993, Mr. Linder and American Financial have given $648,000 to various Republican causes at the Federal level and $460,000 to the Democrats.
In 1995, Mr. Dole was enthusiastic about solving the banana problem. Before he resigned as Senate majority leader, Mr. Dole tried to introduce amendments to budget bills that would have imposed sharp sanctions on Costa Rica and Colombia for going along with the European banana-trade system. He also criticized the Clinton Administration on the issue. But the amendments all failed.
But even while Mr. Dole was flying around on jets provided by Lindner family interests, Mr. Lindner was sipping coffee with the President, on Feb. 21, 1995. And he shows up on the list of Clinton "friends" who slept at the White House.
American Financial gave $100,000 to the Democrats on Aug. 4, 1995. A month later, on Sept. 28, the Administration asked Europe for trade "consultations," the first step toward filing a case. American Financial gave $15,000 on Feb. 29, 1996, and the formal case was filed April 11. Some European officials are hinting that the donations and the filing were closely related.
But it is difficult to establish that link. Career officials at the United States trade representative's office say they felt no pressure on how to handle the case, and Mr. Lindner apparently attended only one formal meeting on the subject, with Mickey Kantor, Ms. Barshefsky's predecessor. The decision Mr. Kantor made -- to take the case to the World Trade Organization, along with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and Ecuador -- was the route recommended by career staff officials at the trade representative's office. It is a sensitive issue because Caribbean nations that live off the banana trade complain that the United States' actions threaten to destroy their deals with Europe, and thus their economies.
Mr. Lindner's problem, though, is that this is not the kind of case that gets American workers exercised because any jobs that would be saved would be in Latin America.
The problem could still be around for the next big campaign. Even if the United States wins, the Europeans could drag out the process by changing only some of the rules and playing for time. They could avoid changing their system altogether if they chose to pay compensation to the countries that brought the case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFG (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION ; EUROPEAN UNION; CHIQUITA BRANDS INC AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (85%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION ; EUROPEAN UNION; CHIQUITA BRANDS INC WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; EUROPE; ; LATIN AMERICA; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BANANAS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: LINDNER, CARL H; SANGER, DAVID E ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



330 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Canberra Journal;
Where Australia's Chief Just Won't Hang His Hat

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia

 BODY:
This totally planned inland capital was designed early in this century to look a little like Washington.
Floral drives wind along an area that resembles the Tidal Basin. Marvelous vistas open up from wide avenues that radiate from the Senate and the House of Representatives. Cyclists and joggers move through stately parks and malls graced by majestic monuments. Suburbs drape the undulating hills between the city and grazing land dotted with cattle, sheep and an occasional kangaroo. 
 Canberra even has something close to the White House, a lovely eucalyptus-shaded mansion known as the Lodge, blending Colonial Revival and American Mission styles and sitting grandly behind cream-colored stucco walls a five-minute drive from the House and the Senate.
Prime Ministers have proudly lived in the Lodge since its completion in 1927. But the tradition has been shattered by Australia's newest leader, John Howard, who refuses to move his family to the bush capital, as Canberra is commonly called, from cosmopolitan Sydney, Australia's largest city.
Sydney is where Mr. Howard was born and grew up and where two of his children are in college and the third is in preparatory school. His family has moved into Kirribilli House, a Gothic-style manor above the harbor usually reserved for official entertaining and distinguished foreign visitors.
Canberrans are fuming. Residence in the Lodge, many feel, signals commitment to the city.
The local view is that Mr. Howard is apathetic to the capital's growing problems, which include rising unemployment from cutbacks in the Civil Service and a generally depressed business climate. In distancing himself, Canberrans say, the Prime Minister may be making conditions worse.
"The implications are very far-reaching and enormously damaging for Canberra," said Kate Carnell, Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory, roughly equivalent to the District of Columbia.
"Government isn't exactly the flavor of the month around here," she said. "It's hard enough to get over the negative sides of a place that people say is full of a lot of jolly politicians, and the P.M. deciding not to live here just adds to that attitude."
Many Canberrans believe that residence in the Lodge is one of the job requirements for a Prime Minister.
"If he wants the job, he should take the Lodge," said Jane Bennett, a Canberra market researcher. "If he doesn't like the heat, . . ." She smiled.
Once rolling sheep country given to bush fires during the searing heat of summer, the Capital Territory was selected in 1911 to end bickering between Sydney and Melbourne. Canberra is between the two cities, about 140 miles to the southwest of Sydney.
Walter Burley Griffin, an associate of Frank Lloyd Wright, submitted the prize-winning plan for the city, influenced by Pierre L'Enfant's layout for Washington.
The compromise between Sydney and Melbourne is being undermined, many fear, by the Prime Minister's refusal to live here.
Historically the rivalry has been sharp and at times bitter between the more protectionist-minded southern manufacturing state of Victoria, whose principal city is Melbourne, and the more free-trade-minded northern agricultural state of New South Wales, represented by Sydney.
A theme of conversations here was that the Prime Minister might be making Canberra irrelevant.
More Cabinet meetings than ever are now held in Sydney. Business lobbyists come here less, because the movers and shakers are all in Sydney.
Mr. Howard, 57, who has just completed his first year in office, leads the Liberal Party, which is business-oriented and conservative compared with the other main party, Labor.
In defense of his decision he cites his desire not only to keep his family together but also to stay tuned to opinion outside the capital.
"Mixing with the same group of people, reinforcing one particular view of life, however well intentioned you may be and the people with whom you converse may be, it is possible to end up being a little out of touch with views in other parts of Australia," he said.
When not traveling to other parts of Australia or abroad, he said, he spends 60 percent of his nights in Sydney and 40 percent in Canberra.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Canberra has a lovely mansion akin to the White House, known as the Lodge, where Prime Ministers have lived since 1927. Until now, that is. The newest leader, John Howard, prefers to live in Sydney, his hometown. (Elisavietta Richie for The New York Times)
 
Map of Australia highlighting Canberra: Australia's Prime Minister refuses to move to Canberra, the capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (96%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA; CANBERRA (AUSTRALIA); AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (96%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); WEATHER (78%); POLITICS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; HOWARD, JOHN (PRIME MIN) JOHN HOWARD (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



331 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: State Will Buy Old Shipyard For Oyster Bay Waterfront

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: OYSTER BAY, L.I., March 14

 BODY:
Using funds allocated 25 years ago, the state is providing $5 million to buy a crumbling shipyard that dominates the waterfront of Oyster Bay, a sheltered haven that yields 90 percent of the oysters harvested in New York State.
The 5.2-acre site at the southern end of the bay is bordered by beaches and public parkland. Much of the bay has been designated a National Wildlife Refuge and is home to the Pine Island oyster. 
 The Town of Oyster Bay board is to vote on Tuesday on a proposal to provide an additional $1 million for the purchase.
In a statement announcing the land purchase, Gov. George E. Pataki said, "This cooperative purchase will recapture an important part of Oyster Bay's waterfront and the area's unique maritime character."
He added, "It will allow for redevelopment that will turn a dilapidated eyesore into a vibrant economic and recreational resource."
The $5 million will come from the state's 1972 Environmental Quality Bond Act. Previously, the money was designated for a solid waste incinerator on Long Island that was never built, according to a statement from the Governor's office.
State Senator Carl L. Marcellino of Oyster Bay said he worked closely with the Governor and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, to secure the funds to buy the site, the Jakobson Shipyard, which was listed on the state's open-space plan as a priority acquisition.
The shipyard opened in 1938 and once employed as many as 600 workers who built tugboats. It was removed from the state's hazardous waste site list in 1995 after a voluntary cleanup by the current owner, Moran Towing.
The grant was a long-sought victory for Friends of the Bay, a group dedicated to the preservation and protection of Oyster Bay and Cold Spring Harbor, estuaries on the North Shore of Long Island about 35 miles east of Manhattan.
"We see this property as the centerpiece of a new waterfront," said Michael Deering, executive director of Friends of the Bay.
The Oyster Bay Supervisor, Lewis J. Yevoli, also welcomed the news.
He said that the town would be seeking more money, perhaps from the state's recently approved environmental bond act, to improve the site with features including a marine museum and education center.
Governor Pataki on Thursday announced that the state had bought 267 acres in Hampton Bays in Suffolk County, using $1.9 million in state funds set aside to help preserve the Long Island Pine Barrens.

GRAPHIC: Map of Nassau showing location of Jakobson Shipyard: The state is providing $5 million to buy a shipyard in Oyster Bay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OYSTER BAY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; OYSTERS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR SHIPBUILDING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); BONDS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); BEACHES (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WILDLIFE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (70%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



332 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Decline Again, With Inflation Still a No-Show

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14

 BODY:
The economy displayed almost no signs of inflation on the producer level last month, the Labor Department reported today, further straining the view that strong growth and low unemployment lead inexorably to rising wages and prices.
The Labor Department said that the Producer Price Index for finished goods, which tracks the prices paid to manufacturers, farmers and other producers, declined four-tenths of 1 percent in February, the steepest fall since October 1994 and the second consecutive sharp monthly drop. 
 Excluding food and energy prices, which tend to jump around independently of broader inflationary pressures, the index fell by one-tenth of a percent, the third decline in five months. Prices paid to producers of consumer goods fell five-tenths of a percent after a drop of three-tenths of a percent in January.
Figures for retail price inflation will not be released until next week, but today's report suggested that there was little upward pressure anywhere in the economy. Prices paid for intermediate goods like parts and components were unchanged last month even after excluding falling food and energy prices. And prices for crude goods inched up just 1 percent, mostly because of rising prices for scrap metals.
"It's a picture of virtual price stability at the wholesale level," said Stuart Hoffman, the chief economist at the PNC Corporation in Pittsburgh.
The notion that the economy remains well balanced was reinforced by other indicators released today. The Federal Reserve reported that industrial production rose five-tenths of a percent last month, its biggest jump in three months, but that industries were operating at 83.3 percent of capacity, below the level at which pre-inflationary bottlenecks typically appear.
The Commerce Department said business inventories increased just a tenth of a percent in January, suggesting that factories could count on steady orders as long as demand remained strong.
The figures helped spur a recovery in stock and bond prices, which had tumbled on Thursday when reports that the economy was growing at a surprisingly fast pace increased investors' fears that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates later this month to forestall a buildup in inflationary pressures.
Today's producer price report, however, again seemed to reduce the chances that the Fed would tighten monetary policy when it meets on March 25. But the report left many economists struggling to explain why price pressures remain so contained despite the strong economic growth and low unemployment. Economists have long assumed that tight labor markets inevitably lead to higher wages, which companies then pass on to consumers in the form of higher prices.
"It certainly raises questions about the way we view the economy in terms of looking at pressure points," Mr. Hoffman said.
After watching for the last year as growth has repeatedly accelerated and slowed, all without significantly upsetting the balance between a strong labor market and relative price stability, economists are divided over how fundamental a change the economy has undergone.
On one side are those who are confident that current growth rates, which have been running around 3 percent annually, are perfectly compatible with the current low unemployment rate of 5.3 percent as long as the economy's productive capacity and productivity improvements dampen the need and ability of companies to raise prices.
"I've been arguing strenuously for several years that inflation would remain low regardless of economic growth, and we just got more evidence of that today," said Mickey D. Levy, the chief economist at Nationsbanc Capital Markets.
Mr. Levy said the Fed had been pushing growth in nominal gross domestic product -- growth before it is adjusted for inflation -- gradually down to far lower levels than it did in the last period of rampant wage-price inflation, in the late 1970's and early 1980's.
In Mr. Levy's view, high levels of nominal growth -- 11.5 percent from 1978 through 1980 -- created excess demand in the economy. Workers demanded higher wages and got them. Companies then passed the wage increases along to consumers in the form of higher prices, and got away with it without losing market share because competitors were doing the same thing.
But now, with nominal growth running around 5 percent, there is no excess demand because growth is roughly equal to -- or even less than -- increases in capacity and productivity. Mr. Levy said that companies could no longer raise prices because competitors, who have excess capacity, would keep their prices down to gain market share. Companies in turn are holding the line on wages.
"There's certainly room for debate over when the Fed needs to tighten, but the debate should not be in the standard notion that low unemployment rates drive up wages, which drive up inflation," Mr. Levy said. "The Fed has changed the whole macroeconomic environment for wage negotiations, for the way companies conduct their business and for spending growth."
But other economists remain convinced that the old pattern will sooner or later reassert itself: companies will bid up wages as they compete for workers in a fast-growing economy with a tight labor market, and they will raise their prices to compensate for their rising costs.
"Are we in a high-growth, low-inflation new era? My conclusion is no," said Kenneth Mayland, the chief economist at Keycorp, the banking company in Cleveland.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Industrial Production"
Index of total production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Shows industrial production from September 1995 thru February 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. 40)
 
"Producer Prices"
Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted. Shows producer prices from September 1995 thru February 1997. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) PNC BANK NA (67%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); FOOD PRICES (73%); BONDS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); BOND MARKETS (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



333 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Albania Chief's Associates Flee; Gunfire Halts Evacuation by U.S.

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania, March 14

 BODY:
The collapse of authority in Albania worsened today, as close confidants of the President fled the country and the Government failed in its effort to seize weapons from roving bands of thugs.
The United States suspended efforts to evacuate Americans after gunmen fired at two helicopter gunships waiting to pick up families who had gathered in a large field at the diplomatic compound here. About 2,000 Americans are in Albania, according to the State Department. 
 Only 408 people had been lifted out at the time of the suspension, the Pentagon said, leaving nervous Americans to spend another night in a city racked by indiscriminate gunfire and widespread looting. Italy also mounted an evacuation operation by helicopter at a sports field in the center of town and by landing craft at the chaotic port of Durres, in central Albania, where gunmen fired into the air. One Italian helicopter was hit by gunfire but not seriously damaged.
Mobs of desperate Albanians wanting to flee pushed themselves onto the Italian landing craft and had to be pushed off by Italian soldiers, a Western diplomat said.
In the capital, the coalition Government that President Sali Berisha was forced to appoint this week tried unsuccessfully to contain the chaos. Kalashnikov-toting secret policemen tried to set up checkpoints, demanding that motorists give up weapons. But there appeared to be only a few checkpoints, and there were no signs of confiscated weapons.
On Thursday, the authorities had flung open weapons warehouses, apparently hoping to supply guns to its backers.
The new Government also asked police and military officers, many of whom have deserted and some of whom have been looting, to return to their posts. Their calls appeared to have gone largely unheeded.
Despite Mr. Berisha's appeals for help from other nations, it seemed highly unlikely that European countries would send troops or police support. Jamie Shea, a NATO spokesman, rejected Mr. Berisha's call for troops, saying, "The main problem is that there is lack of trust in the Government."
But if Mr. Berisha resigned, he would leave a power vacuum. There are no clear leaders in the opposition parties, and any successor would face the daunting task of rescuing an economically devastated country as well as trying to restore order to a nation of armed camps.
This afternoon two battered armored personnel carriers, with the symbol of the police written on the front, paraded up and down Tirana's main tree-lined street and around the central Skanderbeg Square. On board, eight gunmen in tattered clothes brandished automatic weapons, firing off shots. It was impossible to tell whether the men supported the President or the new Government, or whether they were part of the rabble.
The anarchy reached the previously calm eastern part of the country near the Macedonian border, where a $10 million cigarette plant, one of the biggest new investments in Albania, was burned to the ground after looters took all they could carry.
"They took doors, toilets, everything," said Vebi Velija, the owner of the plant, at Prenjas, and one of the most prominent businessmen in Albania. Mr. Velija, who has been a critic of Mr. Berisha, said he was concerned that his recently built four-story business center in the heart of Tirana would also be looted.
In Shkoder, 56 miles north of Tirana, a center of culture and education, all Government institutions were set on fire and the armory emptied. The headquarters of the secret police was destroyed as well as the local bank. On a historic street dating from the Middle Ages, buildings considered national treasures were also burned, according to Elsa Ballauri, a head of a human rights group in Tirana who spoke to residents there by telephone.
The new coalition Government today forced the resignation of the unpopular head of the secret police, Bashkim Gazidede. Mr. Gazidede had presided over the state of emergency that Mr. Berisha imposed nearly two weeks ago.
As his country descended into nightmarish chaos, a defiant Mr. Berisha appeared to be standing firm, ignoring demands from the people and politicians that he resign.
He sent his 25-year-old son, Shkelzen, and 18-year-old daughter, Argita, to Italy on the last ferry from Durres to Bari on Thursday night, Italian officials said.
Today, the recently replaced Defense Minister, Safet Zhulali, his wife and 14-year-old daughter escaped to Italy on a boat that arrived in Brindisi, the Italian Government said.
Several national guardsmen, members of the elite unit that protects the President, said they were preparing to flee.
A guardsman from Mr. Berisha's hometown of Tropoje, in northern Albania, said he had already sent his wife and child to Greece and would follow this week, using his diplomatic passport.
But Mr. Berisha has no intention of leaving, his press office said, according to a report on Italian television. He was invited to attend diplomatic negotiations held today on board an Italian frigate moored off Durres but apparently did not want to venture even that far out of the country, a diplomat said.
Instead the new Prime Minister, Bashkim Fino, a 35-year-old member of the Socialist Party, headed the Government's delegation at a meeting with the former Austrian Chancellor, Franz Vranitzky.
Mr. Vranitzky, representing the Organization for Cooperation and Security in Europe, said after the meeting that European countries should consider sending military or police assistance to Albania to curb the violence. He said Albanians had made it clear that they were incapable of restoring order themselves.
But NATO diplomats said they would be unwilling to send help unless an organization like Mr. Vranitzky's could help broker a political solution.
"If the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe worked out a credible framework for a political solution to the crisis and made a specific request to NATO to do something like monitor the collection of weapons, then we'd take another look," a NATO official said.
Whether Mr. Berisha actually understood how dark the situation was in his country was open to question.
A Western diplomat who visited Mr. Berisha, a tall, 51-year-old with a ruddy face and a booming, agitated voice, described a bizarre scene at the Presidential Palace on Thursday.
As weapons depots were being ransacked and the city was exploding with gunfire, the President was all alone in his suite of offices in a dilapidated white two-story building, the diplomat said. Mr. Berisha's staff had abandoned him.
Mr. Berisha's first concern, the diplomat said, was to get foreign troops to help him put down the violence that had ruined one of Albania's most precious assets: "We have to get action because they have burned the Coca-Cola plant," the diplomat quoted Mr. Berisha as saying. The bottling plant on the outskirts of Tirana is one of the few multinational investments in Albania and close to the heart of Mr. Berisha, a former Communist turned capitalist.
In fact, the Coca-Cola plant was still intact today and had survived four attempts by gunmen to storm the gates, according to men guarding the plant.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Albanians tried to get aboard a boat for Italy in Durres yesterday. Soldiers on Italian boats had to push mobs of people away, a diplomat said. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); An Albanian man, in top photo, crying yesterday after being refused a place aboard an Italian Army helicopter taking off from a soccer field in Tirana. He and his six-year-old daughter, who was to be treated in Italy for rheumatoid arthritis, were evacuated later on a British helicopter. At left, an Albanian minesweeper carrying 150 refugees arrived in Brindisi, Italy. Above, an Albanian policeman gave a thumbs-up sign to an armored personnel carrier, commandeered by rebels in Tirana. (Associated Press; Reuters)(pg. 6)
 
Map of Albania highlights Tirana: The Government in Tirana has been unable to contain the chaos that has swept up from the south. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA; ALBANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LOOTING SHOOTINGS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HELICOPTERS (77%); RIOTS (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (67%); 

PERSON: BERISHA, SALI (PRES); PERLEZ, JANE; GAZIDEDE, BASHKIM

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



334 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Average Gains 56.57, But Nasdaq Slips 0.31
Blue-chip stocks rebounded after prices were pummeled on Thursday. An unexpected drop in the Producer Price Index gave investors hope the Federal Reserve might not have to push up rates to avert inflation. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 56.57 points, to close at 6,935.46, and the S.& P. 500 index gained 3.61 points, to 793.17. Both have risen more than 7 percent this year. But the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite lost 0.31 of a point, closing at 1,292.97, and leaving it up less than a quarter of a point for the year. [Page 42.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities also rose as a Fed rate rise looked less certain. The 30-year bond rose 5/32 , to 962/32 , with its yield slipping one basis point to 6.94 percent. [42.]
 
Applied Magnetics Withdraws Bid
Applied Magnetics said it was withdrawing its unsolicited offer, made in February, to buy the Read-Rite Corporation, a larger rival supplier of components to makers of disk drives, because recent declines in Applied's shares had trimmed the value of the proposed stock swap to $1.06 billion from $1.76 billion. [40.]
 
Anti-AIDS Drugs for Children
Children infected with the virus that causes AIDS became eligible to receive a potent new class of drugs that has sharply reduced the level of the viral infection in adults. The F.D.A. approved for pediatric use two anti-AIDS drugs known as protease inhibitors -- nelfinavir, to be sold by Agouron Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Viracept, and Abbott Laboratories' ritonavir, sold under the brand name Norvir. [9.]
 
World Bank Head Trims Plan
James Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, faced with criticism from other nations and Congress, proposed trimming $122 million from the budget for his plan to reorganize the bank and said that he would more closely supervise the buyouts to be made to the 500 to 700 employees who would leave voluntarily. Proposed payments averaging $200,000 have been criticized as excessive. Board members of the 180-nation organization are to consider the proposed changes on Thursday. [40.]
 
G.M. Plant in Indiana Is Struck
Members of a United Automobile Workers local struck a General Motors plant in Fort Wayne, Ind., that makes pickup trucks. The union wants G.M. to hire more workers at the plant to cut down on overtime and to address health and safety issues. It was the first local contract dispute since the auto maker reached a new national pact last fall. G.M. said talks were to resume today and that it hoped for a resolution. [40.]
 
Less Powerful Air Bags Endorsed
The Federal Government told car makers that they could make air bags that opened with 35 percent less force, following reports of air bag-related fatalities in 62 car crashes. The manufacturers, endorsing the change, said it would be made in the 1998 model year. But some safety advocates were critical. [11.]
 
Dollar Off Against Mark and Yen
Depressed by the producer price report, the dollar lost ground on foreign-exchange markets. It settled in New York at 1.6935 marks, down from 1.7056 marks on Thursday, and at 123.38 yen, down from 123.41 yen Thursday. The pound cost $1.6010, up from $1.5974. [38.]
 
Soybean Futures Prices Surge
Soybean prices surged on the Chicago Board of Trade, with beans for May delivery up 21 cents, to $8.495 a bushel, after a report showed domestic demand at a record pace on rising consumption of livestock feed. Coffee prices recovered, with May coffee up 4.10 cents, to $1.8635 a pound, on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York. [38.]
 
Pressing the Case for Bananas
Carl Lindner, the man behind Chiquita Bananas, is known for spreading money around Washington, to leading politicians of both parties. And next week he is likely to learn whether his investment has paid off. The World Trade Organization is expected to hand down its first decision on Europe's banana rules, in a case that the Clinton Administration pressed on Chiquita's behalf. Mr. Lindner contends Europeans favor bananas grown in Europe or former colonies over Latin American-grown competitors. [10.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,935.46 up 56.57
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.94% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 123.38 yen down 0.03
 
Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (82%); ABT (NYSE) (82%); ABT (LSE) (82%); ABL (FRA) (82%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3695 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (85%); 

CITY: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (82%); READ-RITE CORP (69%); AGOURON PHARMACEUTICALS INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); INDIANA, USA (85%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (95%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); CHILDREN (87%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (84%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BONDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (74%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); VIRUSES (70%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (66%); OVERTIME (66%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (52%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



335 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 15, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-7

U.S. Suspends Evacuations Under Hostile Albanian Fire
A United States military effort to evacuate Americans from Albania was suspended after gunmen fired at two helicopter gunships involved in the operation. Only 408 of the 2,000 Americans in Albania had been lifted out. Gunmen fired into the air during Italy's evacuation, hitting one helicopter but not seriously damaging it. 1
 
Refugees from the chaos in Albania have been reaching Italian shores, some flying the white flag of surrender. But the Italians, worried that they are about to face a recurrence of the Albanian exodus of 1991, have been keeping close track of them. 6
 
Israel to Start Housing Project
The Israeli Cabinet resolved to go ahead with construction of a Jewish neighborhood in East Jerusalem despite warnings of potential Palestinian resistance. The Cabinet reaffirmed its decision as the nation mourned seven schoolgirls killed by a Jordanian soldier. The attacker remained in custody, and no new information emerged about his motives. 4
 
The attacker's family said he had psychological problems but no history of violence or ties to militant groups. King Hussein appointed a former intelligence chief to head the investigation, raising speculation about possible political motives for the attack. 4
 
No New NATO Forces in East
NATO made a new concession to Russian concerns about its expansion. The alliance said it had no intention of stationing permanent foreign forces for ground combat in countries that did not already have them. NATO officials hoped the concession would serve as an olive branch in advance of next week's Russian-American summit talks in Helsinki. 6
 
Zaire Rebels Attack Kisangani
Zairian rebels launched an attack on Zaire's third-largest city, Kisangani, creating panic among Government troops and civilians. Western diplomats said the assault began with a mortar barrage, followed by shooting inside the city and a convergence of rebel fighters. Kisangani, the unofficial capital of northeast Zaire, is the biggest strategic target so far in the rebels' campaign. 7
 
Mexican Defends Bank Deposit
Mario Ruiz Massieu, who deposited $9 million in a Texas bank while he was a deputy attorney general in Mexico, told a Federal court that he shipped the money out of the country for fear that Mexico was sliding into chaos. Narcotics corruption in Mexico and the country's political crisis dominated testimony at a civil trial focusing on whether Mr. Ruiz Massieu can legally keep the money. 7
 
80 Feared Dead in Iran Crash
A military cargo plane crashed in the mountains of northeastern Iran, killing the 80 or more people aboard, the Government news media said. The American-built C-130 crashed near Mashhad, a city holy to Shiite Muslims that is more than 400 miles northeast of Teheran. (AP)
 
NATIONAL 8-11
 
Surgeons Reattach Tendon In Clinton's Knee
Surgeons reattached a tendon to President Clinton's right knee. He had torn it when he stumbled on steps at the golfer Greg Norman's house in Florida. Mr. Clinton said he would attend next week's summit meeting with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia as planned. Doctors said he would have to wear a leg brace and use crutches. 1

X Chromosome Is Mapped
Researchers completed a high-resolution map of the X chromosome, one of the pair that determines whether a human is male or female. The map took 10 years and the work of 25 biologists to complete. 1
 
2 Acquitted in Jogger Killing
A jury acquitted two men in the November 1995 rape and killing of a jogger, Kimberly Ernest, near one of Philadelphia's most prestigious areas. The men had contended that the police had forced them to sign confessions. The verdict struck another blow against a police department that has seen 12 officers charged with corruption and 283 criminal cases dismissed. 8
 
F.B.I. Finds 7 in Atlanta
The F.B.I. in Atlanta said it had located seven of the nine people whose images it had released less than 24 hours previously as part of the investigation into the bombing during the Olympics. None of the seven were considered suspects, but they might be able to provide information about the bombing, the bureau said. 8
 
AIDS Drug Approved for Young
The Government approved the use of new AIDS drugs for children. The drugs, called protease inhibitors, have been successful in reducing the levels of the AIDS virus in adults. They are being used in combination with older antiviral drugs like AZT to transform AIDS treatment. 9
 
Herman Aided Her Firm's Buyer
The White House said President Clinton's nominee to be Labor Secretary, Alexis M. Herman, had helped a woman who had bought her consulting firm obtain a spot on a Commerce Department trade mission last year. The White House defended the help as proper and said it was not related to contributions to the Democratic Party by the woman and her sister. 10
 
Less Forceful Air Bags Allowed
The Government told automobile manufacturers they could make air bags that open with less force than had previously been required. The manufacturers said they would make the change on all cars by the end of the 1998 model year. The change would reduce the danger to children and small adults, some of whom have been killed by the more powerful air bags. 11
 
Suspect Called Unremarkable
The teen-age Ukrainian immigrant accused of killing Ennis Cosby seemed so quiet and polite to most people with whom he came in contact that, they said, he seemed to escape notice and memory. 11
 
 
 
NEW YORK/REGION 25-29

Crew Urges Justice Dept. To Let School Plan Proceed
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew urged the Justice Department not to keep a hard-won reorganization of New York City's schools from taking effect on April 1. The Government is examining whether the plan, by giving the Chancellor more powers, violates minority voters' rights. 1

Racial Dispute in Bribery Trial
The judge in the bribery trial of a former top Newark official dismissed a juror who had been sleeping. A heated argument over race erupted as the defense noted that several jurors had fallen asleep but that the only one dismissed for it was black. 25

Frog Muscles Pulled From Show
An artist who kills frogs and electrically stimulates their muscles to create moving sculptures said he would withdraw from a show opening next month in Soho. But the artist, David Arnold, said he would complete his series of sculptures despite criticism from animal-rights groups. 25

High Radiation at Brookhaven
Federal energy officials said they had found high levels of two hazardous radioactive substances in water pumped from an old underground tank at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. They said there was no health risk because a nearby well showed no contamination. 26

Tax Amnesty a Disappointment
New York State's tax amnesty program has not lived up to expectations, Comptroller H. Carl McCall said. The amnesty was expected to bring in $450 million but has reaped only $256 million so far, he said. 29

Principal in Test Flap Retires
The principal of an award-winning elementary school in Fairfield, Conn., announced his retirement amid a test-tampering scandal. 28

SPORTS 32-37
 
Georgia and S. Carolina Lose
Two powerhouse teams, Georgia and South Carolina, were sent home early from the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament. Coppin State's victory over South Carolina was its first ever in the tournament. 33

ARTS 13-19

BUSINESS DAY 38-52
 
Cutbacks at Apple . . .
Apple Computer said it would lay off 4,100 employees and temporary workers, about 30 percent of its work force but fewer than many analysts expected. Apple also said it would end its Performa brand. 39

. . . and at Heinz
The H. J. Heinz Company said it would sell or close at least 25 plants around the world and dismiss 2,500 employees, or 5.8 percent of its work force. The company will also sell most of its Ore-Ida Foods Inc. frozen-foods business. 39

Figures Show Stable Economy
The economy displayed almost no signs of inflation on the producer level last month, the Labor Department reported. Other figures also suggested the economy was running smoothly. Stock and bond prices recovered some of their losses. 39
Business Digest 39
 
OBITUARIES 31

Fred Zinnemann
The director who grappled with issues of moral courage in such Academy Award-winning films as "From Here to Eternity" in 1953 and "A Man for All Seasons" in 1966 was 89. Mr. Zinnemann's films also included "The Search," "The Men" and "High Noon." 31

EDITORIAL 22-23
 
Editorials: Deadbeats in Albany, Salvadoran election risks, dairy cartel, topics.
Columns: Russell Baker, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge 52
 
Crossword 18
 
Weather 52

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ITALY (91%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FINLAND (73%); IRAN (66%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (66%); MASHHAD, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS BANK & TRUST NA (52%); TEXAS BANK CORP (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ITALY (91%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FINLAND (73%); IRAN (66%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (66%); MASHHAD, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); POLITICS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); RELIGION (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); MOUNTAINS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); REFUGEES (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997



336 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 2; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE '97: FESTIVALS;
A Taste of The Zeitgeist

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER; HOLLAND COTTER writes about art for The New York Times.

 BODY:
ART LOVERS can do triple duty in Europe this spring and summer. They can play catch-up with major shows they missed at home, see others not due in New York for months (including a spectacular display of Cambodian sculpture), and experience a major dose of the contemporary Zeitgeist in two biennial extravaganzas that don't travel.
Of several shows that debuted in the United States and are moving on to Europe, at least two are outstanding: the retrospectives of the American modernist painters Ellsworth Kelly (at the Tate Gallery, London, beginning June 12) and Jasper Johns (at the Ludwig Museum, Cologne, beginning Aug. 3). Both career surveys looked impressive in New York; it will be fascinating to see how they shape up elsewhere. 
 For devotees of up-to-the-minute art, though, the summer of '97 is one of Those Summers, when Europe's two sprawling expositions, the Venice Biennale and Documenta in Kassel, Germany, roll into view. Neither show is a known quantity at this point, but both are famous for being famous, and, at least for the opening week or two, they draw art world cognoscenti like moths to a flame.
More often than not that flame is a dim one, but there's always the chance it will set off larger sparks. Documenta this year is in the capable curatorial hands of Catherine David, a former director of the Pompidou Center in Paris. The trumpeting of the end of the millennium in the press material is already sounding tired, and the promise of a program in which "every day, at an appointed hour, between 21 June and 28 September, one or more intellectuals or cultural protagonists will initiate a debate on the economic, political and cultural aspects of globalization" is enough to send anyone to the nearest art-free zone. Still, Ms. David could pull off something memorable from a basically unorganizable event.
The Biennale (June 15 to Nov. 9), with the veteran Italian curator Germano Celant at the helm, promises less. Again, the official statements of intent are hot-airish. (The show's theme is said to be "the flux that is born of the dialect between continuity and discontinuity.") But as always, the choice of the artist to represent the United States at the show generates some interest on this side of the Atlantic.
This time the nod has gone to the painter Robert Colescott, best known for his reworking of canonical masterpieces -- Jan van Eyck's "Arnolfini Wedding," Leutze's "Washington Crossing the Delaware" -- by inserting caricatured figures of blacks. Mr. Colescott's bad-taste work is funny, angry, and sure to send some viewers steaming out of the show. It should provide at least a mild buzz to an event that tends to doze its way through the summer months.
Taste of a different kind (the very kind Mr. Colescott burlesques, as it happens) may be sampled in "Van Dyck in Genoa: Grand Paintings and Collections," on view at the Palazzo Ducale in Genoa through July 13. The great Flemish artist lived in the city from 1621 to 1927, painting the rich and famous with matchless panache. In addition to 41 paintings by Van Dyck himself, the show includes others by Titian, Rubens, and Caravaggio, in the grand setting where many of the works originally hung.
Elsewhere in Europe, major retrospectives of modern artists crop up. A retrospective of the French modernist Fernand Leger (1881-1955) will air at the Pompidou Center from May 29 to Sept. 28. (It arrives at the Museum of Modern Art in New York next February.) The show will afford the first opportunity in some 30 years to take a sweeping look at an early Cubist who went on to restyle the human figure as a set of interlocking machinelike tubes and pipes.
A modernist painter of lesser stature, the Belgian Paul Delvaux (1897-1996), will be given a full-dress retrospective in Brussels. His surrealistic concoctions of meticulously painted nude women fitted out with bows and wandering across empty piazzas no doubt has an ardent audience out there somewhere and fans will find much to savor at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts (March 21 to July 27).
Definitely worth catching at the Tate Gallery in London, through May 4, is a retrospective of the German painter Lovis Corinth (1858-1925), which has previously been seen in Munich, Berlin and St. Louis. Corinth can be a scary, overbearing artist -- his work helped inspire early 20th century German Expressionism -- but his depictions of his family and his series of Rembrandtesque self-portraits documenting his own physical decline are extremely moving.
London also offers other tantalizing exhibitions. Spring travelers will find very English fare in "Hogarth the Painter" at the Tate through June 8, one of several events celebrating the 300th anniversary of the artist's birth. Closer to the present is "Modern Art in Britain 1910-1914" through May 26 at the Barbican Gallery, which sets Continental artists (Cezanne, Gauguin, Matisse and Picasso) beside British artists whom they "inspired" (Vanessa Bell, David Bomberg, Roger Fry and Augustus Johns).
Perhaps this lineup of modernists will shed some light on contemporary British art, which is a hot item on the international market these days.
Anyone visiting London before April 6 should trot over to the Saatchi Collection to see work by two fine young painters, Fiona Rae and Gary Hume, then move on to "Material Culture: The Object in British Art of the 1980's and 90's" at the Hayward Gallery, through May 18, which includes work by such young artists as Mona Hatoum, Damien Hirst, Shirazeh Houshiary, Sarah Lucas and Rachel Whiteread. (An exhibition of Ms. Whiteread's work is also appearing at the Reina Sofia in Madrid until April 21.)
London also offers something special in non-Western art, with a show at the Queen's Gallery, Buckingham Palace, titled "The King of the World." It consists of a single, magnificent album of miniatures from 17th-century Mughal India known as the "Padshahnama" now owned by the Royal Library, Windsor Castle. Ordinarily the book can be exhibited only two pages at a time, but it has recently been unbound for conservation and all 44 pages are on view until April 27. (The book will also appear at the Sackler Gallery in Washington, May 18 to Oct. 13, and then at the Met from Nov. 20 to Feb. 8.)
 AND Paris, with the blockbuster "Angkor and Ten Centuries of Khmer Art" at the Grand Palais through May 26, will be a must-see site on the Asian art pilgrimage route. There is no more glorious sculptural tradition on earth than Cambodia's, nor any that has suffered more devastating pillage and poaching, a fact that inevitably lends this dreamy exhibition a bitter extra-esthetic edge.
"Angkor" will travel to the National Gallery of Art in Washington this summer (June 29 to Sept. 28), but visitors to the show at its Paris venue can be ahead of the game. But while in Europe, why not catch some small, easy-to-miss exhibitions that are unlikely to be seen here?
For those who think old art is the best art, for example, there will be portraits by Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823) at the Royal Scottish Academy in Edinburgh, beginning Aug. 8. Raeburn was, you might say, the Scottish Herb Ritts, except he was a real artist, who by making pink cheeks pinker and hairdos higher had a very successful career.
And finally, there are two amorphous gatherings of modern art. One of them is a display at the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow of Russian avant-garde work from the legendary collection of George Costakis (March 18 to May 5). The other is the long-promised blockbuster titled "The Age of Modernism: Art in the 20th Century," at the Martin-Gropius-Bau in Berlin (May 7 to July 27). With splashy international loans and artists ranging from Kasimir Malevich to Cindy Sherman, it may not tell a coherent story but it's bound to have wonderful things.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leger's "Deux Soeurs." (Staatliche Museen zu Berlin); Coming from Europe: a Khmer head of Shiva. (Musee National des Arts Asiatiques-Guimet, Paris) (pg. 12); "The Bilingual Cop," by Robert Colescott. (Phyllis Kind Gallery, New York) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); CAMBODIA (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); CAMBODIA (90%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: ART; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS FESTIVALS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); CELEBRITIES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND JASPER JOHNS JR (57%); ELLSWORTH KELLY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



337 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2292 words

HEADLINE: Photos That Lie -- and Tell the Truth

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THIS photograph? Two girls on the edge of puberty are wading a stream. One is pensive, turned inward. The other looks around and stops in mid-action, spying something that frightens her in the darkness of a tunnel. What a decisive moment, and how fraught with sexual symbolism! Jeff Wall, the photographer, must have been poised to take the picture at the second the revelation occurred.
He was. He staged it. 
 A funny thing happened to reality on the way to the photograph. The camera, true to its calling, registered what was before it, which was real enough, if a little too perfect, but not what it seemed to be. The picture comes close enough to traditional documentary photographs to look like a lucky grab-shot, at least on first inspection, but is instead a performance disguised as a snapshot. Manufacturing a reality that has the effrontery to look real, Mr. Wall thrusts the camera's vaunted documentary powers into the realm of fiction.
In the region between illusion and reality, Mr. Wall has a lot of contemporary company. Right now, "Jeff Wall," an exhibit of 30 transparencies mounted in light boxes, is at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, while work by 30 more photographers who concoct edgy alliances between fact and fiction are at the Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Conn., in a show ironically titled "Making It Real." At the Aldrich, toy figures perform like actors in out-of-focus movies, realistic landscapes shimmer in Day-Glo colors, and waxworks stand still for portraits from life. It's as if these photographers had decided that if everyone thinks the camera lies, they might as well prove them right.
Actually, the crucial issue may not be the camera but a gnawing sense that the world itself, knowable only through imprecise perceptions, is a tissue of uncertainties, ambiguities, fictions masquerading as facts and facts as tenuous as clouds. Life today resembles a fictional paradigm more and more and sometimes even outdoes the movie version. O. J. Simpson's ride in a white Bronco might well have been an improbable episode on a television cop series; the televised Simpson and Menendez trials so convincingly melded the forms of "L.A. Law," "All My Children" and "Oprah" that talk show and soap opera ratings fell off. Small wonder if photographers, who traditionally pay close attention to the world, are making story boards for an equivocal universe.
Jeff Wall decided some time ago that the idea of the document was too predominant in photography, and that cinema, where the artificial and the real coexist without either taking precedence, was a better model. "Every picture I've made is an experiment in the gray area between the theatrical and the real," he said recently. He goes to enormous lengths to dwell in this area, hiring actors and coaching them until they're so exhausted they underact like "real" folks. Once he spent 26 weeks waiting for the right weather and hired a helicopter to stir up wind when nature would not oblige.
THE HIRSHHORN RETROSPECTIVE, a big show of big work -- one photograph, "Eviction Struggle," measures 90 inches by 163 inches -- is the most comprehensive of this Canadian artist's 20-year career. Organized for the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles by one of its curators, Kerry Brougher, the show remains on view through May 11, then travels to Los Angeles and the city of Mito in Japan. "Making It Real," organized by Independent Curators, is on view in Ridgefield until April 20 and then travels.
As it happens, photography has been dallying with fiction since its invention, when reality still knew its place. Nineteenth-century photographers staged tableaux and patched together composite photographs for artistic purposes, a style that pretty much went out of favor in America when straight photography, documentary and 35-millimeter candid photographs moved to the forefront in the 1930's and after. Theatrics returned several decades ago, and more recently art photographers have developed a taste for performances that look like the unrehearsed course of life passing by, a newly popular form of trompe l'oeil.
Advertisements have done something like this for ages -- all those grumpy men being served coffee by smiling wives and achieving nirvana -- but no one claimed those were documents. In Mr. Wall's case, the light box display technique is directly borrowed from advertising, hinting that for some reason it has become necessary to market the real world.
Other art photographers imply that lives measured out with coffee spoons are, after all, constructions, a fact that might as well be acknowledged. Tina Barney and Philip-Lorca diCorcia, for instance: Ms. Barney's photographs look like large blowups of snapshots that calmly and subversively capture the persistent disconnections in upper-crust lives -- family members standing at cautious distances from one another, making no eye contact, in elegant chintz-covered rooms. In Mr. diCorcia's domestic documents, minor, offbeat incidents assume intense and puzzling significance, as when a man stares into a refrigerator that to judge from the aggressive light it casts on him, may be staring back.
Both photographers' work is as carefully scripted and directed as "Citizen Kane," though Mr. diCorcia recently showed dramatically stage-lighted but unposed street photographs. Some photographers, like Collier Schorr, simply direct their subjects to re-enact something that happened a while ago, then photograph people playing their own lives.
Something is odd here. Why would anyone use the little reality machine to record performances painstakingly choreographed to seem casual, offhand, even insignificant? Isn't casual, offhand -- maybe even insignificant -- what photography already does best?
Perhaps it can no longer do what it does best so readily. With life looking like the movies and everyone leery of photographs, visual documents have fallen into disrepute. At least since the late 1960's it has been clear that the belief in photographs was hostage to opinion and prejudice. Pictures of Vietnamese civilians massacred by American soldiers at My Lai were declared fakes by a number of staunch patriots who were certain that Americans were incapable of such atrocities. Whatever fabric of belief in photographic observation that still remained surely unraveled with the first trial in the Rodney King case in 1992, in which four officers accused in the beating were acquitted. What the jurors saw may have had as much to do with racial prejudice as with optics, but what they said was that the tape of Mr. King's beating by the police after a high-speed chase told a different story when seen frame by frame than it did at normal speed.
This kind of wavering credibility fit right in with the warnings that pundits, deconstructionists and post-modernists had been issuing for a couple of decades. There was no absolute truth and not much fixed reality to hang on to, and we would have to make do with little more than shifting individual interpretations. Popular culture, which may not have been entirely up-to-date on the latest academic philosophies, nonetheless seemed to bear them out.
Television docudramas played fast and loose with history, claiming dramatic license. Just last month, George C. Wallace, former Governor of Alabama, denounced a forthcoming television movie about his life for including two scenes invented from whole cloth. Critics have complained that the movie "The People vs. Larry Flynt" effectively trashes history by omitting the bad news about Hustler magazine.
In 1991, Oliver Stone mixed fact and fiction in a Waring blender in his film "J.F.K."; all the ingredients, whether frames from the Zapruder film or secret informants who never existed, had the same consistency and seemed equally authentic. Last year, Russ Hexter's movie "Dadetown" took this approach to its logical conclusion. The film unrolled like an as-it-happened documentary of a small town where the factory economy was dying and giving way to the software business. Not until the credits rolled was it revealed that the town, the citizens and the upheaval were entirely fictional. Any critic who raced out at the close of the final scene reviewed a documentary they only thought they saw.
Even the news occasionally plays around with re-enactment or staged events, as when a gas tank was primed to explode in a report on alleged dangers in pickup trucks.
FINALLY, ENTER THE COMPUTER, which makes performing seals of documents. Forrest Gump consorts with dead presidents; the moon is moved to the wrong part of the sky to improve a composition; newscasters appear to be somewhere they are not. Reality has not actually disappeared; it has merely turned into Houdini on weeknights and a master of disguise at matinees.
With faith in the stability of the material world dissolving under the pressure of doubts, digitization and special effects even as we watch, reality is declared unreliable, unprovable and, when convenience dictates, disposable. In come the art photographers, flaunting the untrustworthy nature of appearances and of photography itself. Some of them have decided that since our environment is a construct of imagination and perception, they might as well remake it themselves.
Thomas Demand, a German artist whose work was recently seen at the Museum of Modern Art, makes pictures of empty interiors that are, in fact, scale models replicating photographs from magazines and newspapers. Jerald Frampton photographs tableaux he constructs from cut-out photographs, clay and plaster, each scene inhabited by what at first seem to be actual people but are in fact photographs stuck on pins. Joan Fontcuberta constructs impossible flora from bits of vegetable matter and photographs them as if he were a plant biologist. All or part of these photographs look, at first glance, "real."
Photographers who make use of computers sometimes mess with the eternal verities. Nancy Burson combines Reagan and Gorbachev, while the team of Aziz and Cucher photograph nudes who have no genitals, nipples or navels. One way or another, the photographic medium is busy destabilizing the very nature of existence. A medium intent on such subversion just might have more power as fiction than fact. Maybe its lies are what count.
Some of its fictions are attempts to outwit photography's limitations. Cameras cannot see through walls or into people's souls. Tina Barney complains that she got so tired of looking for actual instances of the complex relationships she knew were there and getting people to display emotion that she finally asked actors to play out her scenarios. Jeff Wall, too, expresses a "wish to be able to get closer into situations which usually happen in the absence of a photographer rather than in his presence." The still camera is ordinarily stymied by its dependence on what is visible here and now. The most direct route to the invisible is to make it up.
After all, everyone knows by now that photographs lie. But maybe, just maybe, everyone is wrong. After all is said and done, we still believe in photographs. If the Derby is won by a nose, a photograph proves which nose. If a camera shows dead bodies in Zaire, if an X-ray reveals a tumor, no one flippantly says these are lies made by photographs. In the first Simpson trial, the defense lawyers cast doubt on the police, the experts, the DNA evidence, the glove, the socks, even the jurors' ethics, but no one has questioned the authenticity of the grisly photographs of the dead.
DESPITE ALL THE ATTACKS on the medium's virtue, both artists and photographers are fully aware that it has an uncanny power to convince, and none of us can easily keep ourselves from succumbing to its wiles for an instant or two. When Tony Oursler stretched a rag-doll dummy along the floor and stuck its head, a circular pillow, partway under a mattress, no one was expected to believe this was a person. But projected onto the head was a video of a woman's face, slightly squashed (no doubt by a mattress).
She grimaced, sighed and snarled, "What are you looking at? Get out of here! Hey, you!" It was impossible not to feel both intrusive and assaulted, though she was but a bag of clothes. There was a real woman lurking there somewhere in the projector; we humans are programmed to respond. The mere fact that a photograph is at work will lend even dummies and staged performances at least a moment of our belief.
We have our reasons for credulity. Seeing is believing, and our lives are organized around visual clues: A car is coming. It looks like rain. My hair's too long. "I couldn't believe my eyes!" means that I did -- but I never would have, had my eyes not offered proof.
If the media and the computer have thrown even the evidence of our eyes into doubt, their timing has been astute, for the pattern of our lives is in a peculiar state of flux. Gender identities and role identities, no longer quite fixed in stone, are entirely fluid on the Internet. Neither a job nor a marriage necessarily lasts much longer than it takes to change the station. News slides into entertainment every night at 7. An entire industry is busy devising virtual realities that promise the intense pleasure of experiencing life at one remove.
Perhaps photographers who manufacture ambiguous facts and fictions disguised as truths have got it exactly right; perhaps they are telling it the way it really is. Maybe photographs are not lying even when they skitter along the thin edge between real life and theater. Rather, they uncover the secret stories, mythic constructions and uncertainties that constitute our lives.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scripted Snapshot Jeff Wall's "Drain," a 1989 work--"Every picture I've made is an experiment in the gray area between the theatrical and the real," the photographer says. (Collection of Mr. and Mrs. S. Ackermans)(pg. 1); Uncandid Camera "Eviction Struggle" by Jeff Wall, 1988--A man struggles with the police while a woman protests, or so it seems. They're actors hired by Mr. Wall, whose lens acts as a nosy neighbor. (Collection Ydessa Hendeles Art Foundation); Faux Documentary Russ Hexter's film "Dadetown," about the travails of a factory town, below, looked like a documentary, but the credits proved otherwise. (Janet Borden); Family Portrait
In "The Bridesmaid," 1993, left, Tina Barney employed actors to stage scenarios that had never come together by themselves. (Film Forum)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HIRSHHORN MUSEUM (WASHINGTON, DC); ALDRICH MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (RIDGEFIELD, CONN)

ORGANIZATION: HIRSHHORN MUSEUM (WASHINGTON, DC); ALDRICH MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (RIDGEFIELD, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); FILM (86%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (65%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (65%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, VICKI; WALL, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



338 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 3078 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
Taking Control of Old Demons By Forcing Them Into the Light

BYLINE: By E. R. Shipp; E. R. Shipp, a professor of journalism at Columbia University, is working on a history of her Southern family.

 BODY:
NEITHER Esther Allison Brown nor Johnnie Will Shipp Sr., my father, would have been comfortable with John Singleton's new film, "Rosewood" -- and that has nothing to do with esthetics or accuracy.
"What is all this digging up?" Miss Esther, who was then 85, challenged me a few years ago after I pumped her about the Allison plantation near Statesville, N.C., and what became of the former slaves who were her kinsmen and mine. As one of her granddaughters and I headed out to roam through the old cemetery in search of my missing past, Miss Esther added: "I don't know what y'all hunting them old dry bones for." 
 My father, who died in 1993 at the age of 70, was less perplexed than close-mouthed. He initially denied having known his paternal grandfather, Shelton Shipp, a former slave who died when my father was about 8. And he refused to say anything about his World War II experience of battling Nazis as well as racist white Americans until I finally dragged out of him this simple declaration: "It was rough."
Even after "Roots" -- the book and the television mini-series that came out in the 70's -- Miss Esther and my father stood as fortresses to protect their progeny from the painful, though rich, African-American heritage. So did others of their generation, as had their parents and their grandparents. Blacks were not alone, however, in wanting to keep closed the doors to the truth.
"Ours is a morbid history," Mr. Singleton said in an introduction to the book "Rosewood: Like Judgment Day" by Michael D'Orso (originally published as "Like Judgment Day: The Ruin and Redemption of a Town Called Rosewood").
"Most of us try to avoid it," he said. "Black people don't want to remember having been the victims of lynchings and rapes. We don't want to linger on the separation of our families, living under Jim Crow and all the horrors that kind of life entailed. And white folk don't want to remember perpetrating that kind of persecution."
With the unfettered hubris of youth, a degree of revisionism and the detachment that comes from growing up outside the South, Mr. Singleton, a 29-year-old Californian, has tackled a long-lost episode of American history and claimed it for his generation as a metaphor for racism. With a few differences.
The story he tells -- with obvious homage to westerns, action movies and "Schindler's List" -- is the massacre of an unknown number of blacks by an angry white mob and the annihilation of their nearly all-black town, Rosewood, Fla. But Mr. Singleton has conveyed that sad tale in a way that allows his contemporaries to see possibilities of heroism amid the victimization.
Survivors lived in fear that if they talked of what they saw during those hellish days in January 1923, members of the mob would track them down and resume the bloodletting. "My grandma told me not to say a word," Robie Mortin, who was 8 in 1923, recalled last year in The New York Times. "My grandma said never to look back. We weren't supposed to talk about Rosewood."

Breaking the Silence
In the early 1980's, some of them broke the silence and talked to journalists. As they found their voices, the story of unimaginable horror was recounted in newspapers, in magazines, on "60 Minutes" and in "Like Judgment Day."
While "Rosewood" the film may be breaking new ground with its big-budget backing by Warner Brothers, stories like Rosewood's -- of black settlements destroyed and blacks forced into exile -- are not unique. They are merely hidden, only rarely even the stuff of whispers and legends retold at family reunions.
"Earlier generations didn't want to talk about slavery or deal with the kind of pogroms or whatever you want to call it that white people carried out in places like Rosewood," said the essayist Gerald Early, director of African and Afro-American studies at Washington University in St. Louis. But now, he suggests, blacks are interested in creating "an epic narrative of what their experience means in the Western world."
Among recent works in this category are these:
* 'Malcolm X," in which Spike Lee angered purists with the liberties he took in his 1992 account of the life of the black nationalist leader who was assassinated in 1965.
* "Daughters of the Dust," Julie Dash's elegiac 1992 film about the last days of a Gullah family on the Sea Islands off South Carolina and Georgia. In choosing greater economic opportunity on the mainland, the family left behind an African heritage few other black Americans could lay claim to.
* "Posse," in which the actor-director Mario Van Peebles focused on blacks who populated a West usually depicted as white, Mexican and American Indian. The 1993 film was shaped as much by the Rodney King episode as by 19th-century history.
* "Panther," Mr. Van Peebles's 1995 movie about the Black Panther Party, which was formed by young blacks in Oakland, Calif., in the 1960's and spread across the country before it was destroyed by its leaders' criminality and self-destructive tendencies and a relentless campaign by J. Edgar Hoover.
* "Tuskegee Airmen," a 1995 HBO movie with an all-star cast of young black actors told the story of World War II fighter pilots who were never properly honored as heroes.
* "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk," in which the theater wizard George C. Wolfe and the tap dance kid Savion Glover use dance to trace the American history of blacks, from slave ship to the Million Man March.
* "A Huey P. Newton Story," Roger Guenveur Smith's one-man show at the Joseph Papp Public Theater, touted in press releases as "the mythic rise and tragic fall" of the co-founder of the Black Panther Party.
* "Miss Evers' Boys," an HBO film, shown last month, that is a fictionalized account of how for 40 years more than 400 black men were used like guinea pigs so scientists could observe the effects of untreated syphilis.

Alternative Narratives
All these stories are shaped by a present largely depicted in the popular culture and by news media as marked by racism, violence, police brutality, welfare dependency, broken families, drug abuse and alarming rates of incarceration. The artists whose work has pierced mainstream consciousness this decade offer an alternative narrative.
"They want to understand their American experience on their own terms," Professor Early said. "All of that adds up to me to be a very important exercise -- an emotional, psychological and intellectual exercise -- for black people as they begin to exert some degree of control over how they wish to be interpreted in the culture."
Control is key. The director Melvin Van Peebles insists that historically, most black artists have sought to define the African-American experience; the difference now, he says, is access to a mass market available to directors like Mr. Singleton, Spike Lee and his son, Mario.
"I've seen many scripts that told these stories," said Mr. Van Peebles, "but those scripts were not given the opportunities they're being given today. It's like saying, when the barn door opens and horses are stampeding out: have horses suddenly taken to running?"
Malik Yoba, a member of the emerging generation of artists, echoes that sentiment: "The lack of pertinent stories regarding our history is directly attributable to the fact that we are not power brokers in this industry," he said, noting that fewer than 2 percent of the members of the Directors Guild of America are people of color.
Some black creative artists -- the painter Jacob Lawrence, the playwright Amiri Baraka and the actor-film makers Ivan Dixon and Ossie Davis -- have always made the past the foundation of their work. In the 70's, Mr. Dixon and Mr. Davis tried to bring the Malcolm X story to the big screen but were unable to muster the Hollywood backing that Spike Lee eventually received.
Mr. Singleton, whose debut film was the acclaimed "Boyz N the Hood" in 1991, has acknowledged of "Rosewood" that "no black man has had the opportunity before to direct a film like this in this context and on so wide a canvas."

The Legacy of 'Roots'
Like millions of people, in ways obvious and not so, Mr. Singleton is a beneficiary of "Roots" which 20 years ago brought history alive for Americans of all origins, while especially imbuing blacks with a sense of what Robin D. G. Kelley, a professor of history at New York University, calls "peoplehood."
Ever since, the visual arts, film and theater have drawn on the 'Roots' metaphor, he said. "A lot of the work from that point on took for granted the African past."
That alone distinguishes Mr. Singleton and his cohort from my own: we, who celebrated the rare appearances of blacks on television in the 50's and 60's in roles other than the half-naked primitives who populated "Tarzan," needed "Roots" to explain to us that we had a past worth acknowledging. Mr. Singleton's generation of film makers and playwrights can take that for granted.
And thus, "Negro psychology," as Mr. Wolfe calls it, can fall by the wayside because this new generation is not trying to redeem the image of blacks as maids, mammies, mamas, buffoons, butlers and Buckwheat.
In this era, he says, they are less interested in "telling stories that only show nobility and strength and courage" than in showing the "complexity of human behavior." They can concentrate on "going after the story as opposed to going after the image."
That means having the freedom to bring to the screen and to the stage flawed heroes like Huey Newton, love stories unconstrained by the fear of stereotyping blacks as sex machines and rhapsodies about black life before the civil rights movement.
Even as they pursue a bolder and more complex depiction of African-American life, the new kids on the block are undergoing the rite of passage required of every generation of black artists and intellectuals: wrestling with the enormity of racism and struggling to carve out an identity for themselves as African-Americans.
"People of John Singleton's generation are trying to figure out how to be black in a society where everything seems so hybrid and mixed," Professor Kelley said. "Some are Princeton and Yale grads; some grew up in suburbs. They know a lot, and they are also trying to be black. They're trying to figure out how to negotiate that blackness. Part of that exploration involves history."
In "Rosewood," Mr. Singleton responds to the facts of life in the 1990's and offers his generation an idyllic past in which black families are intact, loving and prosperous, and a black superhero who changes the course of history when he escapes the noose, takes on the mob with double-barreled ferocity and saves many women and children from death. The director tops it off with a tender romance, a war hero and the possibility of a happy ending.

A History Out of Shards
Mr. Singleton defies the image of blacks as mere victims even in retelling this dark hour of African-American history; with an eye on current racial conflicts and the rash of church burnings that made headlines last year, he conjures up black heroes standing tall -- perhaps the only way to attract his contemporaries to a historic episode that on the surface is solely about black victimization.
His film may be stereotypical and cliche-ridden to audiences accustomed to seeing their stories rendered on screen, but many black moviegoers are entranced by this tale that has its roots in a past about which they know very little.
The film is inaccurate only if one expects it to be a documentary. It is not. What it is, however, is disturbing, especially to some white moviegoers in whom it stirs feelings of guilt.
Some critics of "Rosewood" take issue with Mr. Singleton's embellishment of the facts and the creation of Mann, the reluctant hero. Indeed, a reviewer for The Houston Chronicle, typical among the critics, regretted that the movie "assumes a lot and then makes up a lot more."
One response is this: When a people's history has been deliberately obliterated, how can anyone question attempts to piece together that history from the shards that remain, using artistic license to fill the gaps?
As Henry Louis Gates Jr., the author and chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard University, makes clear in regard to black artistic endeavors rooted in African-American history: "To reassemble fragments, of course, is to engage in an act of speculation, to attempt to weave a fiction of origins and subgeneration. It is to render the implicit as explicit, and at times to imagine the whole from the part."
But there is another response to the charge that Mr. Singleton "assumes a lot and then makes up a lot more." He didn't stray too far from the truth. The basic story of "Rosewood" hews closely to the facts set out in a 1993 report prepared by researchers from three Florida universities and titled "A Documented History Of The Incident Which Occurred At Rosewood, Florida, In January 1923."
The characters in the film bear the names of people who lived in Rosewood, Sumner and surrounding hamlets. Some are clearly composites; for instance, John Wright, the white store owner in the film, is credited with saving (and in one instance betraying) black neighbors when, his was among several families that did so. But even the heroic Mann, who was created for the film, bears some history and traits of the real Sylvester Carrier, whose nickname was Man. Like Carrier, Mann was a World War I veteran and, by most accounts, fearless.
Indeed, the story told by Mr. Singleton and the screenwriter Gregory Poirier resonates not solely because so much of it is verifiable as having taken place in Rosewood in January 1923, but because events like it most certainly took place elsewhere in that area and in that era.
The report prepared by the Florida academics in 1993 notes: "From Chicago to Tulsa, to Omaha, East St. Louis, and many communities in between, and finally to Rosewood, white mobs pursued what can only be described as a reign of terror against African Americans during the period from 1917 to 1923."
For all these reasons it is nearly impossible for blacks familiar with that history to view "Rosewood," flaws and all, with dispassion.

Wrestling With Demons
When a white man in the movie callously tosses Mann's World War I discharge papers to the floor, I can't help thinking of my 93-year-old grandmother's uncle Jodie Aiken, whose service has been similarly diminished. As best as I can tell from family stories and meager courthouse documents, he died in the Army in France in 1919. But the United States Government has no record of him.
When the sheriff on the screen tells Sylvester Carrier to get out of town if he knows what's good for him, I hear whispers in my family about my paternal grandfather's brothers, who, early in this century, were likewise told to leave. What became of Will Shipp is still a mystery; John Shipp was killed in Gary, Ind., in 1931.
And when the movie mob takes as trophies body parts sliced off blacks who are lynched, I can't help thinking of the experience of the scholar-activist W. E. B. DuBois, as recounted recently in the PBS documentary "W. E. B. DuBois: A Biography in Four Voices."
In 1899 a black man was lynched in a town not too far from Atlanta, where DuBois was on the faculty of Atlanta University. Recalling how the incident affected DuBois, the historian Herbert Aptheker said:
"He was going to the newspaper, The Atlanta Constitution, to register some kind of a complaint. Walking down the main street of Atlanta, he passed a butcher shop and on display with a label were the knees of the victim -- next to the pigs and the pork. He saw that, and didn't go to the newspaper. He went back and wept."
A tally kept by the Tuskegee Institute (now University) between 1882 and 1964 records 4,752 lynchings. Nearly all of them occurred in the South; practically all the victims were black -- and, yes, some of them were occasions for parades and picnics, as depicted in "Rosewood."
The drumbeat for a Federal anti-lynching law, led by the N.A.A.C.P., reached a peak in 1946, after the widely publicized lynching of two black couples by a score of white men in the Georgia county of my roots. One victim, George Dorsey, had recently returned home from fighting in the Pacific in World War II.
That story, like Rosewood's, was buried for nearly half a century until a man came forward to tell what he had witnessed as a 10-year-old. Until then, neither blacks nor whites who knew what had happened to George and Mae Dorsey and Roger and Dorothy Malcom ever talked about it. As in Rosewood, many blacks moved away and started new lives.
"There were four shooters initially," Clinton Adams told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution in 1992. "Then, when they fell to the ground, these men just stood over them, shooting into the bodies and up in the trees. Everybody was shooting. Everywhere." That's not unlike a scene in "Rosewood."
Responding to this story, the son of a man who had been sheriff at the time of the murders questioned the value of recalling what happened at Moore's Ford, Ga., in 1946. "If all it's going to do is stir up old memories, it can't do anything but hurt folks," said Judge Marvin Sorrells. "Who wants to talk about Nagasaki and Hiroshima? Who wants to talk about Dachau? Well, probably those things need to be kept alive, but this thing, I don't see anything positive to come from it."
The judge and my older relatives are not alone in questioning the value of delving into African-Americans' tragic history. On the eve of the premiere last month of "Miss Evers' Boys," some health-care workers worried that by dredging up the past, the film would reinforce a distrust of government -- and deter blacks from participating in experimental AIDS treatments.
But there is a need to wrestle with and even tame the demons of African-American history for reasons that go beyond the Singleton generation's way of explaining the present.
"All the things that happened in the past have a bearing on the present,' says Professor Kelley of N.Y.U.
"When you erase these memories, you have white people thinking that African-Americans have always had it easy and that affirmative action has been around since Abraham Lincoln. A lot of white people need to know this. They don't have to feel responsible, but they do have to understand it and work toward recreating the world."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Awakening Uneasy Ghosts Don Cheadle, left, and Ving Rhames in "Rosewood," a film about the murder of blacks by a white mob in 1923. (Eli Reed/Warner Brothers)(pg. 13); Malcolm X, top, in 1964; Huey Newton of the Black Panthers, left, in 1970, and W. E. B. DuBois, above--Recent works about these three people reflect the growing interest of blacks in creating "an epic narrative of what their experience means in the Western world." (The New York Times)(pg. 26); Julie Dash's 1992 film, "Daughters of the Dust"--Elegiac. (Kino International); Laurence Fishburne, left, and Cuba Gooding Jr. in "The Tuskegee Airmen"--Pilots who were never properly honored as heroes. (HBO)(pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROSEWOOD (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HERITAGE HOMES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROSEWOOD (FLA); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BLACKS GRANDPARENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); HISTORY (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); FAMILY (69%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (66%); CEMETERIES (55%); 

PERSON: SHIPP, E R; SINGLETON, JOHN JOHN SINGLETON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



339 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
In Some Mill Towns Near Boston, Factories Revive

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LAWRENCE, Mass.

 BODY:
A WIDE variety of manufacturers are moving into newly built or renovated space in eastern Massachusetts, reviving an industrial landscape that reflects a range of corporate needs in a diverse business environment.
This city is the site of the most widely acclaimed factory project -- the construction by Malden Mills, a long established, family-owned textile company, of a 510,000-square-foot plant to replace three turn-of-the-century mill buildings destroyed by a fire 16 months ago. 
 The plant is to begin operations next month.
But beyond that, some smaller companies are building, renovating or expanding plants in this region, among them concerns that manufacture or assemble shoes, totebags, electronics products, fiber-optics cable, precision instruments, telecommunication products, computer hardware, software and networking systems.
South of Lawrence at Interstate 495 and Route 3 in Lowell, Thermo FiberTek has bought land for what, if realized, would be its largest private commercial real estate project to date.
The company intends to build a $300 million paper recycling and manufacturing plant that will employ 150 people.
"People do new manufacturing facilities because the cities actively encourage them and the companies want good labor," said John F. Power, a principal in Whittier Partners, a commercial brokerage firm based in Boston. "Also, these old cities are efficient. They are centrally located with good roads, public transportation, housing that is less expensive than Boston and shopping to accommodate factory workers who may not own cars."
Carter J. Winstanley, a partner in the Winstanley Enterprises development concern of Concord last summer purchased an 800,000-square-foot, 1980's industrial plant that had been built for Wang, the troubled computer maker.
M/A-Com Inc., a manufacturer of wireless communications equipment, has occupied about 300,000 square feet of the former Wang building since 1994.
Winstanley signed on Bull Electronics, which moved from 250,000 square feet it owns in Boston into 70,000 square feet of manufacturing space in Lowell last December, and this month M/A Com signed a lease for the remaining 330,000 square feet of space.
"Manufacturers are attracted to a workforce of top engineers and designers," said Mr. Winstanley. "Also, these cities have been key industrial centers since the Industrial Revolution. They have a manufacturing mind-set and will bend over backward to accommodate new businesses."
Lowell, for instance, recently built a 3,000-car parking garage, is upgrading computer education in its schools, built a minor league baseball park and a minor league hockey rink and has recruited local businesses to support a theater.
An additional attraction for Bull, which makes printed circuit boards for telecommunications and personal computer companies and the health-care industry, was that its occupancy costs are about half what they were in the building it owns in Boston. Its five-year lease relieved the company of property taxes and it received a fit-out on favorable terms from Winstanley, according to Stephen C. Puleo, a company spokesman. "The access is convenient for business and for our workers who are highly skilled and, for the most part, live north of Boston," Mr. Puleo added.
OVERALL, Massachusetts is still losing manufacturing jobs, said Katharine L. Bradbury, vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The statewide manufacturing jobs figure was 444,7000 last January. Peak manufacturing employment, in 1984, was 673,600.
About 15 miles southwest of Boston in the town of Canton, the Pollak division of Stoneridge Inc., of Warren, Ohio., makes electromagnetic switches for automobiles. Last April it moved into a 126,000-square-foot plant in the Canton Commerce Center and now employs 600 people there. Fifty miles to the southwest in Charlton, just off the Massachusetts Turnpike, FiberCore is building a $25 million plant to manufacture optical communications fiber.
In Lawrence, which was founded by textile manufacturers in the 1820's, Aaron Feuerstein, the owner and chief executive of Malden Mills, was granted local approval to build a state-of-the-art plant at a cost of $100 million to manufacture his Polartec brand of high-priced textiles for active wear.
To continue manufacturing while recovering from the fire, Malden Mills leased about a million square feet of space in old textile mills and purchased three small buildings here. The company, which employs about 3,000 people, now occupies 1.2 million square feet of office and manufacturing space here. When the new plant is built it will be operating in 1.7 million square feet.
The new, two-story factory has enabled the company to redesign its operation for greater efficiency. In its old three- and four-story mills, textiles had to be shuttled between floors, making handling and quality control difficult. The new plant, with its modern climate control, will improve product quality and consistency. Malden Mills is also installing all new equipment in its new plant.
Designed by Bechtel, Frank and Erickson Architects, of Lexington, and Stone & Webster Engineering Corporation, of Boston, the building is clad in masonry and glass for natural light. One corner is anchored by a red-brick tower from the original turn-of-the-century structure.
Recent leasing activity by Malden Mills has driven down the industrial vacancy rate here from 50 to 15 percent, according to Robert E. Bartlett, the city's Economic Development Coordinator. Its new mill will be the largest textile mill built in the northern part of the country in 15 years, according to John W. McCurry, an editor of Textile World, a trade magazine.
FOR Mr. Feuerstein, the decision to stay in Lawrence entailed what he described as a $400 million investment. It comes at a time when Lawrence is still struggling to recover from the five-decade-long flight of industry from the Northeast and the 1990's recession. "We consider this community and its workers to be our greatest asset in supplying the quality and performance our products require," said the 71-year-old Mr. Feuerstein.
In a similar vein, William A. Rainville, president and chief executive of Thermo FiberTek, said a ready supply of reliable workers was a main reason for building their project in Lowell. Furthermore, the city, and one of its most ardent boosters the late Senator Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, actively courted the company.
Thermo FiberTek is based in Waltham, about 40 miles south of here on Route 128. A publicly held company, it is a division of Thermo Electron Corporation, which manufactures equipment and designs manufacturing systems for paper companies. Thermo FiberTek's revenues last were were $192.2 million.
Last July, Thermo FiberTek paid $900,000 to buy its 6.2-acre site. Lowell officials helped the company obtain initial approval from the state for $250 million in tax exempt bonds to finance construction of the recycling and paper manufacturing plant.
The city is on highways that reach the Boston metropolitan area, New Hampshire and Maine. Its old industrial infrastructure is a key attraction. "It takes a lot of water to make paper and Lowell has the water and power infrastructure from the old textile economy," Mr. Rainville said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malden Mills plant in Lawrence will replace three mills destroyed by fire. (Cindy Loo for The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Lawrence, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MALDEN MILLS M/A-COM INC (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: MALDEN MILLS

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; LAWRENCE (MASS); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FIRES AND FIREMEN TEXTILE MILLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); TEXTILES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MFG (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); HEALTH CARE (66%); ICE HOCKEY (60%); BASEBALL (60%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (54%); 

PERSON: DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



340 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 4; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Where Horses Are The Drawing Card

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
IN the mid-1980's Connecticut and North Carolina both studied the feasibility of building an equestrian center, and both decided they would be viable. But Connecticut put its study on a bookshelf, while North Carolina went ahead and built. Its center in Raleigh, attached to the North Carolina State Fairgrounds, is booked 50 weeks out of the year, with 66 major events bringing millions of dollars into the state. In fact, it is so successful the state approved money last year to build two more.
Meanwhile, back in Connecticut, Frank A. Intino of the Department of Agriculture said the Children's Services Horse Show, which was in Farmington for many years, has moved to New York where it found better accommodations. 
 "Now millions of dollars a year are being spent in New York instead of Connecticut by the people who attend that show or participate in it," Mr. Intino said. "We want to keep these dollars in the state, and give the people who own horses in Connecticut a venue that is more convenient, closer to home."
And so group of business leaders, legislators and horse lovers have resurrected the Connecticut study, aiming it at a broader audience. They propose a $27 million Connecticut Horse Park and Exhibition Center for Keney Park on the Hartford-Bloomfield town line; the center would also be used for agricultural fairs, dog and cat shows, bicycle motocross events, beer festivals, or even made available for weddings or conferences.
A new study suggests the horse park could reach a break-even point in its second year, and turn a profit of $700,000 a year within five years.
"The project has been in the planning stages for a long time, but we think we've found the secret, to promote this not just as a horse project but as an economic development project," said Richard C. Shaw, senior vice president of Phoenix Insurance and chairman of the Connecticut Equestrian Center Corporation, the private group backing the project. "Most of the benefit comes from all the money that is going to be spent by people passing through -- hotels, restaurants, parking, gas taxes, meal and room taxes, ticket taxes. The real value is not going to be cash from ticket sales or entry fees."
A bill submitted by Senator Eric Coleman, Democrat of Bloomfield, would give the project $1.5 million. Christopher R. Cloud, an aide to Mr. Coleman, said "In the past, this was supported by horse people who had no political backing, and no firm plan -- they just wanted an equestrian center. Now we've got a team that has developed an integrated plan, something for the whole region, the whole state, that looks at the social, economic and recreational aspects of a center. We've got some of the right players at the table this time."
State Representative John D. Mordasky, Democrat of Stafford Springs, said the new horse park proposal was one of the key reasons he chose to run for a ninth term last year. "I've chased this since I first got to the legislature in 1978, and I think the chances now are the best they've ever been," Mr. Mordasky said. "We have a corporation, and we have some very sharp people."
Mr. Mordasky, one of only two farmers in the legislature, said he hates to see the state lose money because of inaction. The weeklong National Morgan Horse Show -- up to 1,200 horses and 5,000 spectators -- used to be in Northampton, Mass., but was moved to Oklahoma City a few years ago because no place could accommodate it.
"The best Morgan horses in the world are right here in New England," Mr. Mordasky said. "So once a year people pack up and drive out there or fly out there, stay in those hotels for a week, eat in those restaurants, collect their ribbons and come back home -- but they leave a tremendous amount of money behind."
Mr. Shaw said people should be realistic, however. The corporation must still commission a final design, get through regulatory reviews, and come to a lease agreement with Hartford for 175 acres of the 600-acre Keney Park, not to mention raise millions of dollars.
"My personal guess is that construction will begin sometime in 1998," Mr. Shaw said. "Even if someone laid the money at our feet today, there's still a lot to do."
It was horse parks in Europe, popular and lucrative because they attract huge public events, that spurred a proposal to establish a similar operation in Connecticut as early as the 1970's, when it could have been the first in the United States. Richard H. Mullen, a business consultant based in Granby, said he went to a meeting in 1981 when a Virginia business group suggested one at the Tudor-Holcomb Farm.
"Building an equestrian center in Granby in 1981 was a ridiculous idea," Mr. Mullen said. "At the time, we had one grocery store in town. You bring in 10,000 people a day and you wouldn't be able to buy a gallon of gas or a Twinkie."
Mr. Mullen, who owns some Arabs and Appaloosas, then watched as the state spent $40,000 on a study a few years later that concluded the project would make sense. Still, nothing happened. "If what we were proposing was an N.F.L. football team, it would have no trouble at all," Mr. Mullen said. "People don't appreciate the economics of horses, particularly in this state, so it's been a very hard sell."
He said all the studies have said it should be in the Springfield to New Haven corridor for accessibility, but that was thought to be impossible because of land costs. But he knew from his own visits to Keney Park that there was room there, and he began lobbying for the cause. Mayor Mike Peters of Hartford has since thrown his support to the horse park.
"This thing has the potential to boost tourism in the city, to provide educational and recreational opportunities for kids in the city and around the region, and create jobs," said Paul D. Shipman, a spokesman for Mr. Peters. "And it's a natural adjunct to what's already happening at Keney Park."
Mr. Shipman said city officials are exploring other ways it could benefit the city as well, such as serving as a stable for the Hartford mounted patrol and a proposed regional mounted patrol in outlying towns. The center could also form a partnership with Hartford schools for educational purposes, or offer a therapeutic riding program for people with disabilities.
In mid-1995 the legislature created an authority to update the 1987 study. That panel projected the center could book 36 events its first year, growing to 68 events a year by year five, at which time it would have created 168 direct jobs -- and 1,139 spinoff jobs in businesses like restaurants and hotels. It would lose $120,000 its first year, but turn a profit by the second and be in the black by almost $700,000 a year in its fifth year of operation.
Stewart W. Beckett 3d of Glastonbury, president of the Connecticut Horse Council, said surveys have shown the people showing a horse spend an average of $500 a day while they are competing. "If you bring in a 1,000-horse event, there's $500,000 in spending every day," he said.
He said the horse population in Connecticut is estimated at 60,000, and the state generally is first or second in the country for horses per square mile, swapping places occasionally with New Jersey.
"For as large a horse population as we have in Connecticut, we don't have a first-class horse facility in the state," Dr. Becket said. A center would also introduce people to rodeo, three-day eventing, Western pleasure classes, hunter-jumper classes, and other events that could broaden the audience and generate even more revenues, he said.
Another aspect is the economics: one 1987 study showed horse owners in Connecticut spent $333 million on feed, tack and other supplies, a figure that has probably grown to at least $450 million, he said.
"People don't realize that horses are already a big business in Connecticut," Dr. Beckett said. "If you told someone you were going to bring in a plant that would make widgets and employ 1,200 people, state officials would be falling all over themselves trying to get it here. But the industry is back roads and small towns and no one sees it."
But the proposal is finally making some progress, its backers say. Mr. Shaw said the transition in late 1996 from an authority working on a concept to a corporation that has the legal ability to construct the center was a major step. The corporation has begun talking to potential corporate sponsors, will hire an executive director, possibly as early as this month, and it will soon begin interviewing architects and engineers to draft the final site plans.
And backers continue to push the concept to the general public.
"It's hard to get people to see this as more than an agricultural issue," Mr. Mordasky said. "Some people say if it makes that much sense, why isn't a private developer doing it? Well, if a private investor could collect the hotel taxes and gas taxes and sales taxes and everything else that will come to the state if this is built, people would be breaking their necks to do it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; KENEY PARK (CONN); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HORSES HORSES (91%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); CATS (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); BMX BIKING (64%); EXTREME SPORTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); BEER & ALE (64%); FUEL TAX (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CHILD WELFARE (55%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



341 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 6; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Helping Hands for Sarajevo

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

 BODY:
TATJANA LORKOVIC has a mission. She is attempting to rebuild as much as possible Bosnia's history and culture as recorded in the Sarajevo Library. Ms. Lorkavic, the curator of Slavic and East European Collections at the Yale University Library, is determined to resurrect the Sarajevo Library, now reduced to rubble. Ms. Lorkavic remembers the bombing of her childhood home in Belgrade. Her family fled to an uncle's home in Sarajevo. That was April 1941. They found no refuge and watched as German planes bombed the city. They fled again, this time to Zagreb and later to the United States.
In 1982, two years before the Sarajevo Olympics she returned to the rebuilt city as a guest for a national librarians' convention. 
 "It was lovely, absolutely beautiful, with a river flowing through the center of the city. Buildings climbed the hills on both sides and at night the lights twinkled like a series of Christmas tress," she said, her eyes sparkling at the memory. "And the people. It was truly international. The librarians met in the room where Archduke Francis Ferdinand gave his speech immediately before his assassination."
In the room, elaborately carved in 19th-century Islamic style, she said she was warmed by a congenial group of Croatian, Muslim and Serbian colleagues. "Everyone was very friendly and they all got along," she said, "Now I had wonderful new memories of Sarajevo." But that was 1982.
Ten years later, at her home in Guilford, she watched the horrors of "ethnic cleansing" unfold on television. "People were being killed by the thousands. Buildings were in flames. The library was destroyed. Nothing could be saved. The carnage was beyond belief," she said.
She began her campaign. She wrote letters to the White House. She asked the International Relations Committee of the American Library Association for a resolution condemning the violence. At first they resisted and then agreed at an international conference in Barcelona. "Even the Russian librarians supported us," she declared proudly.
But she wondered what more could she do? At a Unesco conference in Prague she was the only American present. She spoke out -- in Russian, Croatian, Czech, French and English -- and won support by saying, "You cannot leave a nation without historic records." She decided to try to compile a bibliography of what remains of those records, bringing in a library intern from Bosnia and training her over seven months. Then she assigned a Yale doctoral student the task of searching for every bit of Bosnian material at Yale. Working with scholars from Harvard and the Library of Congress, her lists grew. She went on line with her project. "Austria was a good source. Istanbul will be too but they are not on line yet," she said.
The Sarajevo Library had also served a university function, and so the second half of her project was born. She obtained research materials to ship to Bosnia. The Yale University Press, the Harvard Press and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Press contributed copies of each new book they published. At Yale she and library colleagues combed the shelves for duplicate materials in academic areas including medicine, engineering and divinity. The music library donated musical scores and recordings. The University of Michigan joined the effort.
By December she had assembled 4,754 pounds of books from Yale which cost almost $700 to ship to Boston to the Sabre Foundation, which coordinated the shipping. "The library held historical treasures from Croatian, Serbian, Islamic and Jewish sources. These people destroyed their own archives. It was vandalism beyond comprehension," she said.
Phillip Injeian, a dealer in and restorer of stringed instruments, and Marianne Liberatore, president and program director of the South Shore Summer Music Festival, wanted to help return music to Bosnia.
In August they met with members of the Sarajevo Symphony in Italy. Mr. Injeian restored the entire 30-instrument string section for them, in some cases repairing bullet holes. "First I had to dislodge the metal and then repair the fragments. It was like putting a jigsaw puzzle together," Mr. Injeian explained.
The South Shore Summer Music Festival, a Westport-based group, donated seven woodwinds to the Sarajevo Symphony. A bassoon is waiting at the Bosnian Embassy in London to be hand delivered. The Westport group also donated a fine Georges Cunault 1908 violin and bow, the money for which was raised at a benefit concert.
"Many musicians left during the war. Now the orchestra is mostly young players and older ones who are tired and don't want to teach any more," Mr. Injeian said. So the Festival members are sending Sergiu Schwartz, a concert violinist from Florida, to teach. They also hope to send a quartet to play as well as coach. "They need outside influences. They have been isolated during four years of war," he explained.
The symphony is about one-third Croat, one-third Serb and one-third Muslim. Ms. Liberatore heard of the plight of the Sarajevo Orchestra on National Public Radio and called the next day to offer her help. Program officials gave her the orchestra's telephone number in Sarajevo with instructions to ask for Dushka. Dushka Trklja, executive assistant to the director of orchestra, spoke excellent English. Ms. Liberatore offered to help. Ms. Trklja faxed a moving letter.
"She recounted the horrible experiences of the orchestra members. You could not read the letter without weeping," Ms. Liberatore said. "They said, 'We lost all our woodwind instruments. Could you help us?' " They sent very specific requests including a French Rigoutat oboe and Loree English horn, instruments that cost thousands of dollars.
The Festival group sent some brand new instruments and some used. The first one was a clarinet donated by Yamaha. The group wanted to do more.
Ms. Libertore wrote again, "We have fulfilled your wish list. Can we do more?" A French violin maker had offered to restore the orchestra's remaining string instruments but failed to appear. Could they help? Mr. Injeian offered to meet them in Italy with Ms. Liberatore.
Saschi Liebergesell of Darien, a member of the Festival group, is coordinating the underwriting of chairs in the orchestra. From the original 80 seats the orchestra has shrunk to 45 members, the size of a chamber symphony. Some of the musicians died in the war. Others were badly wounded or fled.
For $1,000 it is possible to sponsor a chair. "If that's too much sponsors can sign up for a tenth of a chair, or a half, or a rung or a leg," quipped Ms. Liberatore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (52%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (53%); YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SARAJEVO; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (52%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE HISTORY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LIBRARIANS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LIBRARIES (89%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (73%); RELIGION (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (63%); RIVERS (54%); 

PERSON: POLK, NANCY; LORKOVIC, TATJANA

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



342 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7348 words

HEADLINE: Bland Ambition;
The Stealth Governor Gets His Way

BYLINE: By Adam Nagourney; Adam Nagourney covers politics for The New York Times.

 BODY:
It was a few weeks after his inauguration, and the new governor of New York, George E. Pataki, was celebrating his improbable victory with a dinner for the Albany press corps at the Executive Mansion, his new home on the edge of one of Albany's less-attractive neighborhoods. Loose and relaxed at the slightly drunken and unofficial gathering, Pataki -- his face flushed and the right corner of his mouth lifted in a disarming half-grin -- delivered a revealing boast. From his days as the Mayor of Peekskill to his years in the State Assembly and Senate to his challenge to Mario M. Cuomo, Pataki said, his opponents had invariably underestimated him. And that, the new Governor informed his dinner companions, was fine by him.
Pataki was still a stranger to most New Yorkers that night in January 1995, diminished by a political campaign that encouraged voters to ignore him and consider only their dislike for his opponent. He had arrived in Albany encumbered by a reputation that he had helped to create: that he was not particularly smart, not at all visionary, not remotely colorful and certainly not charismatic. He was, by this view, little more than a creation of his patron, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, and a minor moment in New York politics, destined to be ignored for four years and then discarded with the next gubernatorial election. The reporters at his table that night dismissed his boast as inventive spin from a politician trying to weave his many shortcomings into a strong political suit. 
 A few Saturdays ago, as he escaped the winter cold of the gray streets of Peekskill for a piece of grilled haddock at a favorite restaurant, Pataki let out a burst of self-assured laughter as he recalled that conversation. He had spent the day walking the sidewalks of the city on the Hudson River where he had grown up, and where he had been Mayor, recounting the better moments of his first two years as Governor. And when it was suggested that the lesson of the first half of his term was in that exchange at the Executive Mansion, the Governor, with a glance at his closest political adviser, Zenia Mucha, nodded in assent.
"If people want to think of me as a mailman's son from Peekskill with the funny name, well. ..." Pataki stopped to consider if he wanted to finish the sentence with what would be, for him, an unusual public threat. And then he did not.
"I would never make that mistake," he said.
There is much about George Pataki that is as evident today as it was the day he was sworn into office: his languid speaking style, his vaporous public presence, his loopy if likable Barney Fife mien. He is resolutely low-voltage, neither telegenic nor inspirational, one of the lesser public speakers in American political life today. Even Pataki seemed resigned to the sight of a state assemblyman falling asleep during his State of the State Message this past January.
But two years into office, it has become apparent that Pataki is more than the simple-if-lucky career politician from Peekskill who drove Mario Cuomo from office. Pataki has accomplished -- or, more precisely, attempted -- more upheaval in New York state government in 2 years than Cuomo did in 12. He is, it is now clear, much smarter than most people thought. He is also more ambitious, determined, self-disciplined, dogmatic, pragmatic, calculating -- and even, at times, more ruthless. He is as capable as his predecessor of being disingenuous, even if he is not as nimble as Cuomo could be at such moments. (Pataki responded to the revelation of his lucrative out-of-state speaking engagements with the straight-faced explanation that groups would pay him $15,000 to speak even if he were still a suburban state senator.) Pataki is also extraordinarily self-assured, the result of a privileged adulthood, with his Ivy League education, his easy move from Columbia University Law School into one of New York's most powerful firms, his unbroken streak of unseating established officeholders and, not incidentally, the advantage that comes from being a whisker short of 6 feet 5 inches tall. Pataki never suffered the indignity of getting beaten up as a kid in the schoolyard, and he has found, as an adult, that height is power in American politics as well: that he towers over virtually every other politician in New York State was a central consideration in D'Amato's decision to select him to run against Cuomo in 1994.
"He has the sort of presumptuousness that comes when things come too easy," says James L. LaRocca, a former State Energy Commissioner who has been studying Pataki in preparation for running against him in 1998.
It is these unlikely qualities that provide the real key to understanding George Pataki. Because it is this fuller picture of Pataki -- and not the context of Pataki as Forrest Gump, suddenly in the Governor's office with his feet on the desk -- that explains his success during first two years as New York's 53d chief executive. It explains how, as a state assemblyman five years ago, the ostensibly genial Pataki chased from office a popular, elderly Republican state senator, who to this day cannot believe he came after her. It explains how he succeeded, as Governor, in pushing through a huge tax cut, startling everyone with his belligerent tactics and single-mindedness, ignoring the protests from Democrats, Republicans and even Catholic bishops that the cuts would gut programs that assisted the state's less-fortunate. And it explains how he fixed from the start on an ambitious, if compact, political agenda reflecting his mostly Republican view of the world -- cutting taxes and government spending, eliminating regulations on business, slashing welfare, signing a death penalty bill and advocating environmental protections -- and pursued it purposefully, though not necessarily to complete success.
"It's not complicated," says his chief of staff and friend of 26 years, Bradford J. Race Jr. "It's not easy to achieve, but it's not complicated." Pataki put it more directly in a speech to Washington conservatives less than two weeks after the Legislature adjourned in 1995. "Seek no incremental change!" Pataki declared. This has been his rallying cry, and it has produced a few notable victories and a few notable defeats -- including some of the worst relations between a chief executive and the state Legislature in memory. (The Democratic Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, even avoids posing with the Governor for a picture.)
To this day, Pataki has never gotten over the reaction he encountered when he visited newspapers in 1994 asking for their support: an unkind perception of him that he believes remains pervasive -- notwithstanding the fact that he often has encouraged it when it was politically advantageous. "I was utterly amazed," Pataki says, "as I went around meeting with groups or editorial boards who would scratch their heads and say, 'My God, this guy ...' '... can complete a sentence,"' Zenia Mucha says, completing his sentence. They both laugh. Mucha, his communications director and most influential adviser, is a Type A to Pataki's Type B, so she finishes his sentences, while he, at lunch, sometimes finishes her half-eaten sandwich or her half-empty glass of wine. "Has thoughts to complete a sentence," Pataki says, picking up his conversation again. "Actually knows something about the government and has the ability to articulate some interesting positions."
Actually, the observation that Pataki has enjoyed an unexpectedly accomplished first two years in office is becoming widely shared and is held in some unexpected quarters. "I am very pleasantly surprised," says Manfred Ohrenstein, a former minority leader of the State Senate and a power in the Democratic Party's liberal wing. "I have to tell you, I wasn't sure he had the capacity to grow. And I just say it's been dramatic in the last year." Edward I. Koch, who more than two years ago dismissed the Governor as a "little frog" from "a little pond" who "hasn't done much swimming" now expects to vote for him next year. And Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic Bronx Borough President running for mayor of New York, speaks admiringly of the Governor's political style. "He knows what he wants to do," Ferrer says. "He has a definite vision of where he wants to go -- and he doesn't let human relations get in the way."
Not surprisingly, polls show Pataki's stock on the rise. A Quinnipiac College Polling Institute poll earlier this month reported his job-approval rating at 56 percent, the highest of his term.
Not that Pataki has completely escaped his reputation as a problematic and flawed public figure. He has repeatedly displayed what many social-service advocates describe as a callousness toward constituencies not his own -- the poor. His state commissioner appointments have, with a few exceptions, been mediocre. While that partly reflects the difficulties a party faces staffing a government after being out of office for 20 years, it is also a result of Pataki's determination to reward Republican Party loyalists with high-level positions. He is often not fast on his feet in public settings and does not even try to match wits with reporters. ("You can ask the question any way you want, but I'll give you the answer exactly how I did," Pataki said stiffly to The New York Post's pugnacious Albany bureau chief, Fredric U. Dicker.) He is evasive about taking responsibility for shortcomings in his administration.
Pataki also is not as hard-working as his predecessor, preferring to escape Albany for his sweeping and serene 24-room, century-old Victorian mansion along the Hudson River in Garrison. He rarely bothers aides with business after dinner or before breakfast. And while he is smart, he is not necessarily intellectually curious. (He prefers David Letterman to Ted Koppel.) That said, he is not as intellectually tortured as was Cuomo, which goes a long way toward explaining his comparative success.
His self-assuredness has allowed him to appear untroubled by the ethical incidents that have been the recurrent background noise during his first two years in office, from the $2.6 million in private funding for his inauguration and transition to the willingness with which he has placed D'Amato's political benefactors in key state positions. There is, in none of this, any known evidence of illegality, but there is a continuing appearance of ethical laxity. It has provided hope for Democrats looking for a loose rock in Pataki's foundation and is a source of anguish among some of Pataki's Republican supporters, worried that it could undermine their first New York governorship since Malcolm Wilson was defeated by Hugh L. Carey 22 years ago.
Still, given his successes, it is hardly a surprise that many in Pataki's circle, and a few outside it, are now asking that the Governor of New York be counted among the Republicans who could lead his party back to the White House in 2000. Republican governors have become the national farm team for the party, but Pataki's name has been noticeably absent in the early speculation about the next Presidential race. In suggesting that newspaper writers, columnists and party leaders consider Pataki in this mix, Pataki's political advisers are surely borrowing a ploy from Cuomo, who learned that there was no surer way to increase a governor's standing among voters in New York then by floating his name for President. The notion of Pataki running for the White House is, certainly at first glance, improbable to anyone who has sat through one of his public speeches or his news conferences or television interviews. Still, three years ago, the idea that this mailman's son with the funny name from Peekskill would defeat Mario Cuomo to become the Governor of New York seemed only slightly less improbable.
Libby pataki, the governor's wife, is sharp, vivacious and candid in a way that elected officials are not. On a recent Saturday afternoon, she was asked if George Pataki shared his political ambitions with her on their first dates in 1971, when he was working at the Wall Street law firm of the former Gov. Thomas E. Dewey. Libby, George and their 11-year-old daughter, Allison, were settling in for a quiet lunch at Frontiere, a warm patch of a restaurant on a narrow street in SoHo, and Libby Pataki flashed a smile at the memory raised by the question. "Yes," Libby said. "He told me in a letter he wanted to be President one day."
The Governor of New York dropped his spoon into his bowl of winter potage.
"You do?" Pataki's daughter piped up, suddenly curious about the interview she has been unhappily dragged to.
"I do not," the Governor responded firmly.
But Allison was now excited. "Do you want to be President now?" his daughter persisted.
"No. No. No." Pataki looked down at the soup and then shot a slightly annoyed glance at Libby. "I don't remember that letter."
"I've got the letter, George!" Libby responded, teasing out her husband's discomfort in front of a reporter. "I have got the letter. There's nothing wrong with aiming high. Aiming for the stars."
Pataki's drive to succeed in politics has been the underlying and unadvertised force of his professional life. It emboldened him to mount a series of implausible attacks against presumably settled officeholders, from the Mayor of Peekskill to the Governor of New York. And it has been in evidence at each of his stops along the way. Until he became Governor, Pataki used each office not necessarily to accomplish things but to position himself for the next race.
This central characteristic is often missed, in part because Pataki has the instinct to play it down but mostly because Pataki's success has been under the shadow of Alfonse D'Amato. D'Amato endorsed Pataki after polling by the Senator's pollster, Arthur J. Finkelstein, determined that Pataki, whom D'Amato had first met when he was an assemblyman, fit the profile required to beat Cuomo: a white, moderate Republican from the suburbs; a Roman Catholic with an ethnic name (he is of Hungarian descent) who was in favor of abortion rights. "And it's not like we had a wealth of high-profile candidates who were looking to run," D'Amato says now. The Senator proceeded to power Pataki's ascent, providing him with hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions, the backing of the Republican Party and the pick of D'Amato's wily stable of aggressive, conservative political advisers. Their closeness has, if anything, intensified since the election, though Pataki and D'Amato go to considerable lengths now to rebut the notion that the Governor is merely a political appendage of the Senator. "It's sour grapes," D'Amato says. "The fact of the matter is that George Pataki is accountable to the people. They can't attack him directly, so they try to cut him with me. It's nonsense." Pataki and D'Amato present themselves as incidental colleagues, with shared political beliefs and separate political lives. "We have two very different functions, two very different roles, two very different settings where we operate," Pataki says. "He operates in Washington; I operate in Albany."
In fact, though, that is not an easy case to make. The two men are not close friends, but they are hard-pressed to come up with substantial areas of political disagreement. And while Pataki says they speak by phone "every few weeks," D'Amato's recollection, in a separate interview, is that it is more like once a week. More concretely, Pataki's political shop came out of D'Amato's office, starting with Zenia Mucha, his boisterous and happily profane communications director. D'Amato dispatched her from Washington, where she had worked as his press secretary since 1982, to Pataki's gubernatorial campaign in Albany, where she stayed on as the Governor's communications director. Mucha now influences what Pataki does, who he sees and what he says. And no matter how often Pataki and D'Amato really talk, Mucha is regularly on the telephone with D'Amato, who is one of her closest friends; they trade political gossip one minute and restaurant recommendations the next.
Most important, D'Amato is the single largest financial benefactor of Pataki's campaign. He has funneled $1.9 million from the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which he heads, into Pataki's re-election committee. D'Amato's success in promoting Pataki has made the Senator the most powerful Republican New York has seen since Nelson A. Rockefeller and, by extension, one of the most influential Republicans in the country. It has also opened a whole new layer of governmental jobs and access, from which D'Amato can help out his friends and supporters. That kind of political influence is remembered when it comes time to write campaign checks.
But D'Amato's forceful sponsorship of Pataki's career has also served to obscure Pataki's own role in his own success. While Pataki might not have won without D'Amato -- to this day, the Governor says he believes D'Amato was important but not essential to his victory -- it seems equally unlikely that D'Amato could have displaced Cuomo with anyone but Pataki. In fact, Pataki took the first critical step toward challenging Cuomo not in late 1993, when he flew to Washington to meet with D'Amato about running, but nearly 18 months before, in a moment of political insurgency that was the first indication to many of his colleagues that there was another side to the mild and affable George Pataki.
The episode involved Mary B. Goodhue, who in 1992 was the only Republican woman serving in the State Senate. She was extremely popular among her colleagues: tough and bright, with a fair amount of influence that came from being a ranking member of the controlling party in the Senate. Pataki was in his fourth term in the Assembly minority, as obscure a station as there is in New York political life. "He was going crazy," Libby says.
Goodhue was standing on what could be the next rung on Pataki's political ladder. Pataki and Goodhue were friends; he had worked as her legal counsel and managed one of her re-election campaigns. So she says she was unprepared for what occurred when Pataki showed up at her office one day in the spring of 1992.
"He said he was going to run in a primary against me," Goodhue recalled. "I said, 'I wish you wouldn't do that.' He said he had to. He couldn't stand the Assembly anymore.
"I needed two more years for my pension," says Goodhue, who was 70 years old and had served in the Legislature for 18 years. She promised him that she would serve only one more term and then step aside. "I didn't see how he couldn't stand another two years," Goodhue said. "He said, well, he couldn't." And that was that. What perplexed her most, Goodhue thought as Pataki left her office, was how aboveboard he had been about the whole thing. It was just George, her old friend and campaign manager, stopping by to tell her that he was coming after her job, in the same cordial way he might inquire about the health of her grandchildren.
Pataki justifies the incident today, describing it as a matter of ideology rather than crass ambition. "She didn't have that commitment," Pataki says. "She liked being a state Senator -- as opposed to making policy.
"I worked 365 days in the Assembly, with extremely limited power, with a clear view and an agenda. And I saw people with enormous power, with no agenda, allowing the opportunities that their power gave them to slip by. And finally I said, 'This is it: Either I go back to the real world and make money and practice law and do the farm, or I have an impact.' I didn't want to just hang around."
The following January, the now Senator-elect Pataki arrived in Albany to face a hostile class of Republicans mindful that he had dispatched Goodhue with a campaign that would have been considered harsh even if a Democrat had run it: Pataki pummeled her for taking her grandchildren on a Florida vacation during budget negotiations. Pataki did little to salve the wound. When it came time to vote on the state budget that the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, had negotiated with Cuomo and the Assembly Democrats, Pataki defied his colleagues again, announcing he would oppose it because it cut neither taxes nor spending. The Republicans gathered in emergency conference for a five-hour battle with Pataki that his friend, state Senator Nicholas A. Spano of Westchester, remembers to this day as the single most searing political meeting of his life.
The setting was the majority's conference room, which is on a third-floor corner of the Capitol. It is all carved mahogany and red velvet and as large as a small house. A wooden table runs from one end to the other, and at one end sat Marino. We can't let you not vote for this one," Marino said, according to several participants. "All the loyal Republicans are voting for it." Marino was a gray and somber veteran legislator from Long Island, whom Pataki already disliked because he believed Marino had joined Anthony J. Colavita, the Westchester County Republican chairman, in convincing Goodhue to stay in the race against him.
Marino was well liked in the Legislature and not accustomed to this kind of disloyalty. But Pataki crossed his arms in defiance. "I'm sorry, Senator," Pataki said. "But that's the way it is." Marino later told associates he left convinced that Pataki was running for Governor and would without hesitation embarrass his colleagues for the sake of an issue -- taxes -- to use against Cuomo. Marino decided he would oppose Pataki if he ran.
Marino paid a price for that decision, and he was not alone. Three weeks after Pataki went from being state Senator to Governor-elect, the Republicans gathered in the same conference room and -- acting on instructions from Pataki -- ended Marino's career as the majority leader of the state Senate. At the time, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York was, with obvious public embarrassment, still waiting for Pataki to return his election night congratulatory calls. Giuliani had aggressively campaigned for Cuomo, a fateful political miscalculation that -- public statements by the two men aside -- has produced lasting enmity between the Republican Governor and the Republican Mayor. And a few days after Marino's disposal, Nick Spano was dispatched by Pataki to visit a third Republican he viewed as an enemy -- Tony Colavita, the Westchester Republican leader and Marino's lieutenant. "Tony," said the soft-spoken and amiable Spano, folding his stocky frame into a chair to convey the message from the Governor-elect. "I'm here to offer you the chance to chair your retirement party." It was one sign of what was to come in Albany.
It was a cold and uncommonly bright January afternoon in Albany, and Pataki was seated in his office on the second floor of the state Capitol, his long legs stretched out on top of his desk, which was littered with pages of a draft of his upcoming State of the State speech, an open I.B.M. laptop and a Styrofoam bowl overflowing with vegetable soup. The Governor's office is not what it was when Cuomo was there -- literally. Pataki has moved it one room west, from the dark quarters where Cuomo spent so much of his time to the bright and airy conference room next door. Its walls are covered with pastoral scenes along the Hudson River and portraits of Teddy Roosevelt. There is a picture window looking across State Street at the Empire State Mall, where a once-abandoned skating rink has come back to life and is now alive with skaters. Pataki rises from his chair and walks over to take in the view. "When I got here," he says, gesturing to the scene outside his window, "this looked a lot like downtown Moscow." He waved to the skaters. Pataki's figure -- the long, string-bean arms rolling off stooped shoulders, the elongated head topped with a brush of brown, thinning hair -- is easy to recognize from across the street and a few skaters waved back.
In the final stages of speech preparation, he turns from the skaters to the papers on his desk, moving his lips as he reads through some passages. He is trying to anticipate the reaction from legislators, many of whom don't like or trust him very much, a sentiment he quietly returns. "If we don't say we're going to lower the gross receipts tax, the first thing Silver is going to do is propose cutting the gross receipts tax and say how unfortunate it is that we did not," Pataki says, referring to Sheldon Silver, the Assembly Speaker from Manhattan's Lower East Side who, as the highest-ranking Democrat in the state, has almost single-handedly carried the brunt of making the daily case against Pataki. The Governor begins scribbling in the margins. "Let's make it, 'We have lowered the gross receipts tax and we must lower it more.' I'm not saying when -- right?" Zenia Mucha and Brad Race, his chief of staff, nod in agreement
It was less than 24 hours before one of the pivotal moments in any Governor's year: the delivery of the State of the State Message, a chance to set the parameters for the coming year while putting the best light on the past one. This speech will be watched particularly closely. Relations between the Governor and the legislative leaders are more troubled then ever. Although his name will not appear on the ballot for two more years, this is the year that Pataki will start setting the tone for his re-election.
Pataki approaches these most-public of moments as New York's chief executive with a decided disadvantage. His every speech is measured against the speaking talents of his predecessor, Mario Cuomo. It is a contest Pataki cannot win; he knows it and resents it. But he can do nothing about it. Despite his considerable physical presence, the Governor has a thin, reedy voice. He swallows some words and mangles others. So it is that on one day, the word "drugs" came out "jugs," as in "stay away from jugs," and on another, a well-known New York City television interviewer seemed mystified when it appeared that the Governor called him first Abe and then Dave. (In fact, Pataki was correctly addressing him as Gabe.) And Pataki, who is 51 years old, is visually ill suited for television; his face is good-natured and pleasant enough, but it is rarely emotive and thus not interesting to watch. He tends to hold one expression in his public presentations -- earnest, his mouth cocked in an uneven grin, his eyes so puffed and droopy that it sometimes seems even he is fighting to stay awake. It all combines to distract from what he is saying.
Despite the stakes, Pataki could not appear more relaxed as he prepares for his speech. He sits at his desk, chattering away as he pushes a basketball up the length of his spindly legs before letting it roll back into his lap. There is no snapping at aides, no anguished last-minute write-throughs, not a moment's thought of skipping dinner. When he returns to the Assembly chamber for a planned midnight run-through, his staff suggests ways to animate what will be a long 60-minute speech. Still, reality is reality, and no one can take the rehearsal too seriously. "Show some outrage!" Zenia Mucha bellows to her boss from the empty Assembly floor. Pataki grins and shrugs, lolling on into the next part of his speech.
These easy-going couple of hours are genuinely representative of the Governor's personal style. They are also, he says, representative of his governing style. Pataki presents himself as a accommodationist, a leader who prefers friendly negotiations to unseemly squabbling. "I always prefer cooperation to confrontation," he says. After he gives the State of the State speech -- which is, for all his efforts, unmemorable and tepidly received -- he resists every invitation from reporters to disparage his opponents. Instead, he returns, with characteristic discipline and obvious coaching from his political pollsters, to the theme of "common ground." "What you have to worry about," he says, his face still glistening from the sweat of the television lights as he walks back into his office, "is what the public interest is, trying to find the common ground."
But this really is not quite true. When it comes to tactics, there is often a difference between what Pataki says he does and what Pataki actually does. And the foes of Pataki who have been lulled by his conciliatory language have, at times, paid a price for that complacency. His largest legislative victories (and some of his more memorable defeats) came in confrontations that were notable not for their search for common ground but for their political brutality. "He was like a little pit bull," says Maggie Boepple, the former chief New York City lobbyist under Mayor Koch, describing his successful fight to reform the state's $5 billion workers' compensation program.
That approach was even more in evidence with the 1995 tax cut. Pataki had campaigned on a promise of a 25-percent income tax cut that would eventually cost the state $6.8 billion in annual lost revenues. The Cuomo administration left a $5 billion deficit. Most observers assumed this would force Pataki to delay his tax cut, which is what the Cuomo administration had routinely done with its own tax cut. Pataki informed reporters that he was going to do what he had promised. "I think people are going to be amazed by the consistency of the message," Pataki said on his second day as Governor. He called for the tax cut, along with more than $1 billion in budget cuts, mostly directed at health care for the poor and aid for higher education. Assembly Speaker Silver countered with a more-modest tax cut, with more benefits directed to middle-class taxpayers. But Pataki dominated the debate. "Those who were opposed were very, very shocked by the degree with which I said, 'This is going to happen,"' Pataki says now. "And it wasn't just Democrats in the Assembly and interest groups who were opposed. I think there were those in the Senate who were absolutely stunned. Republican after Republican said: 'You just can't do this. Now, you've won the election; now, let's see what we can really do.' "
Faced with resistance, the Governor announced that no one in the capital -- from the Governor to the legislators to the employees who operate the Assembly switchboard -- would get paid after the current budget expired on April 1 unless a new budget, with tax cuts, was passed. He countenanced broadcasting $1 million worth of advertisements attacking 20 Democratic lawmakers who opposed him. And Pataki's political lieutenants made clear that the Republicans would follow the victory in the Governor's office with an equally aggressive bid to take over the Democratic-controlled Assembly. It was a new era in New York state politics, where until now legislators never worried about being attacked at home in off-election years.
But it was Pataki who was at the center of the political squall. He was the subject of sensational advertisements produced by Democrats and unions, warning of catastrophic results from his cuts in Medicaid in particular. A state association
Of county executives, including fellow-Republicans, urged Pataki to delay the tax breaks, concerned about the cuts in state aid they would force; a leader of the state's Catholic Bishops described his plan as a "much meaner budget than we've seen probably ever in the history of the state." Polls showed Pataki's popularity in decline, with one New York Times poll finding that large numbers of New Yorkers were worried that he was moving too fast to cut government. Pataki accused his opponents of "fearmongering" and in ads made Silver the symbol of the opposition to tax cuts, "the powerful New York City liberal boss of the Assembly." It was hardball unlike anyone had seen in Albany before, all the more unexpected because the man on the mound was Pataki.
In the end, Pataki got most of what he wanted -- though Silver was successful in transferring some of the tax cuts from the upper to the middle class -- including an unheard-of 1 percent cut in state spending. But it came at a high cost. The Legislature passed the budget a few hours shy of the record for being latest, intentionally snubbing a Governor who had promised to end Cuomo's record of tardy budgets. Pataki's antagonistic tactics united Democrats against him, and the resulting atmosphere threatened to complicate anything he attempted to do with the Legislature again. "If anything, I think it hurt," says Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate Republican majority leader, who otherwise describes Pataki's first two years in glowing terms. "It gave the wrong message: the message being you have to agree to whatever -- whether you agree or not -- just to get a budget. Legislators don't do that. And they proved that."
Pataki rejects that analysis, asserting that it was his very unexpected aggressiveness that forced the tax cut. "I don't think anyone would admit it, but I happen to think this is the case," Pataki says, adding as an aside, "I think they were impressed by the tenacity with which I approached the issue.
"I think early on -- whether it was the income tax cuts or the workers' comp reform or some of the welfare reform measures -- they all said, 'Let's wait them out and they'll cave.' Now they're starting to think that it's the other way around. That I'm serious about what we're proposing and that I am not unwilling to have confrontation if that's what's necessary to achieve important changes."
Pataki's negotiating style came as all the more of a surprise because it was so different from his easygoing and slightly detached day-to-day governing style. Pataki spends far less time in Albany than previous Governors, preferring his Manhattan office. And he spends less time at work than his predecessors, another contrast with the ever-toiling Mario Cuomo. "I don't think he's dumb; I think he's lazy," says Sheldon Silver, with a slight smile that suggests he is speaking only partly in jest. Pataki's disaffection with Albany is demonstrated by his spending as few nights as possible in the stately and stuffy Executive Mansion. He prefers the 90-minute drive to Garrison, where Libby, who works as a consultant to Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics company executive and Republican Party benefactor, lives full-time with their four children. And even there, Pataki chafes at the trappings of his position. He has been known to slip past his State Police guard for a walk by the Hudson River or a jaunt down the road to Peekskill.
On the shut-tle back from Washington one weekday recently, Pataki was publicly scolded midair by a New York clergyman, disturbed by the Governor's latest proposal to cut welfare. Twenty-four hours later, Pataki was still brooding about the confrontation. If there is one area in which Pataki's agenda has produced only limited success, it is welfare, where Assembly Democrats have blocked his most drastic measures: time limits and benefits cuts. But President Clinton's signing of a Federal welfare law last year will force the state to act, and one of the new mandates is that healthy recipients of food stamps work 20 hours a week. Congress included a provision allowing states to seek a waiver if there were no jobs available, but Pataki -- who has spent much of his career advocating similar welfare restrictions -- vowed to not seek the waiver. And he seemed utterly perplexed by the repugnance that greeted this. When a reporter suggests that some people might view the notion of depriving the needy of food stamps as a cruel way to encourage work -- particularly because it involved Federal and not state money -- the Governor slaps his hand on the table in an uncharacteristic display of temper
"How?" he demands. "How? Answer me!
"All we're saying is we're going to expect something in return from you in exchange for this benefit. Not because its saves us pennies -- it doesn't. But because it tells them that they have the ability to do something and that we expect that they will do something to get something in return. And to me, it's just so clearly the right principle for us as a society and for that person as an individual that I am confused by the apparent concern of those who oppose it." There was a chasm here between the theories that Pataki was describing and the economic reality of parts of New York State, but Pataki was too certain of his views to accept that. And three weeks later, as opposition swelled and it became increasingly clear that many counties were not prepared to help recipients find work, Pataki uncharacteristically backed down and reluctantly sought the waiver.
It was an instructive episode. A running Democratic criticism of Pataki is that he has no ideology, that he is a product of polls who believes in nothing except the next election. "There's no substance behind him," Silver says. "He's very good at sound bites. He's moved by the polls." H. Carl McCall, the Democratic State Controller who is considering challenging Pataki next year (the other major prospective candidate is Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn) describes Pataki as "very nonideological. I think he's not someone spending a lot of time thinking through what his grand scheme is."
This perception is reinforced by the presence on the campaign payroll of Arthur Finkelstein, the pollster shared by Pataki and D'Amato. And Pataki has muddied his own ideological waters. Like other moderate Republican governors representing politically centrist states, Pataki starts with the familiar Republican emphases on taxes and crime and adds some un-Republican twists, starting with the environment. The fight against pollution has at times been forgotten when it clashed with his administration's desire to help business by lifting regulations, but there is no doubt that Pataki's interest in the issue is genuine, if politically fortuitous. It was symbolized last year by Pata-ki's successful advocacy of the $1.75 billion Clean Water/Clean Air Bond Act, which even Democrats viewed as a master stroke.
Along the same lines, Pataki signed an executive order barring discrimination by state agencies against gays and lesbians. He joined other moderate Republican governors in an unsuccessful effort to prevent putting the Republican Party on record against abortion rights. He is known among reporters as a Republican who will offer a critical quote of Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker. In none of this is there evidence that Pataki has embraced a position he is uncomfortable with, with one possible exception: abortion rights. Pataki, like some other Roman Catholic politicians, migrated to his present position in favor of abortion rights, but his switches -- there were more than one -- were sloppier than most, ultimately leaving his credentials in doubt on both sides of the issue.
Still, on the core Republican issues, Pataki is as ideologically grounded today as he was when he came to Albany in 1985: cutting taxes, reducing government and welfare and fighting crime, as evidenced by his signing a death-penalty bill nine weeks after taking office. "I believe in a very active government, but a government that has a very limited role," he said a few weeks ago as he walked on a dirt path overlooking a particularly striking turn in the Hudson River near his home. He was clutching a walking stick as Zenia Mucha, speaking on a cellular telephone, tried to keep up. "And that role is to fix, to create the climate where things that are broken can be fixed, or create the climate where things that can be enhanced." Indeed, Pataki goes so far -- at least when he is outside of New York -- to portray his victory over Mario Cuomo as a defining moment in the struggle between liberal and conservative ideals.
"Mario Cuomo's defeat signaled the death of liberalism," Pataki said to
the Heritage Foundation, a conservative organization in Washington in July 1995. "After all, it wasn't Mario Cuomo who was defeated. It was his philosophy of more government, more spending and more taxes." Pataki's work in New York has, accordingly, won more than a little notice from national conservative circles. "Saving New York From Liberalism?" read the headline over one flattering cover story on Pataki that appeared in The Weekly Standard, the influential conservative publication. The Cato Institute, the conservative economic organization, in a review of the fiscal efforts of various states awarded Pataki an A for his work in New York. "No governor has done a better job of digging their state out of fiscal hole than Pataki did," said Stephen Moore, the institute's director of fiscal policy studies.
Given that, even Martin Connor, the Brooklyn Democrat who is the Senate minority leader, has come to differ with Silver on the depth of Pataki's ideological convictions. "He does believe in the basic Republican philosophy -- he really does," says Connor. "I think he has a philosophical underpinning there. I think he fundamentally is a Republican. There is no doubt about it." George H. Winner Jr., the Elmira Republican who was a minority floor leader when Pataki came to the Assembly, says Pataki today is enacting the same agenda that the Assembly Republicans were talking about 10 years ago. "He believed in our agenda," says Winner. "Our agenda is what he is doing right now."
 There is a sort of quiet resentment that sometimes seems to gnaw at Pataki as he begins planning for his next election. It is that he is still compared to Mario Cuomo, notwithstanding the fact that no one in the state has encouraged this more than Pataki himself. That he has not received the credit he feels is due. That other Republican governors have captured national attention while the man who beat Cuomo has not. That he is still viewed as an extension of D'Amato. And that he is still perceived as a bit dim. "There aren't a whole lot of people," says Pataki, "who were ranking scholars at Yale or Columbia, who made Law Review, who I am aware of who had a hard time completing a sentence."
For all that, though, Pataki seems to have little to worry about as he approaches the 1998 election. Luck is with him. The economy is booming, which means his tax cuts should not force any politically disruptive spending cuts. Crime is down. The Democratic Party was left in disarray by Mario Cuomo. And Pataki himself towers in a political arena arguably bereft of political talent. But more than that, Pataki has assembled the kind of record that can be turned into the most compelling sort of campaign ads: the tax cuts, the reduction in welfare rolls, the death penalty, the environmental bond act.
The Democrats' best hope may well be the manner in which he financed his $2.6 million transition and three-day inaugural. It took an Assembly subpoena and court order to force the release of the names of Pataki's inaugural benefactors and their expenditures. Still, even that issue does not seem to rise to the level of scandal that moves voters to cast out an incumbent during good times. Pataki's skill at evading embarrassing issues has been particularly in evidence here. (The Governor says he can't understand why his political aides didn't just release the names in the first place. "In retrospect," he says, the disarming half-grin back on his face, "I would have preferred that we didn't even have an inaugural. Libby and I could have gone out for a hamburger.")
In the end, there is one telling symbol of Pataki's political emergence in New York these past two years, and that is D'Amato. The revelation that D'Amato has shuffled $1.9 million into Pataki's re-election was originally taken as another example of the Senator tending to the political needs of his ward, the Governor. In truth, though, the Senator may not be considering the Governor's political needs at all. Pataki and D'Amato are both up for re-election in 1998, and it is Pataki's name that appears first on the ballot. The way things are going, Al D'Amato may be looking to George Pataki to carry him across the finish line.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Pataki. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIGEL PARRY/C.P.I., FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 32&33); Bland Ambition -- Pataki's work in New York has won more than a little notice from conservative circles. 'No governor has done a better job of digging their state out of a fiscal hole,' says a pundit at the Cato Institute. Pataki with Gov. Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin in Washington last month for a governors' meeting. (pg. 35); Bland Ambition -- He resents being perceived as dim. 'There aren't a whole lot of people,' Pataki says, 'who were ranking scholars at Yale or Columbia, who made Law Review, who I am aware of who had a hard time completing a sentence.' The Governor, with his aide Zenia Mucha, taking his son Owen to play in a Saturday basketball game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CATO INSTITUTE (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOVERNORS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); CUOMO, ANDREW M (SEC); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) ANDREW CUOMO (73%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



343 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
A Developer Navigates the Recycling Path in Harlem

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
THE totally private, nonsubsidized residential construction projects undertaken in central Harlem are few and far between, but one of them is now under way on Manhattan Avenue at 115th Street in one more attempt to bring home ownership into an environment of older rentals.
Not that co-ops are unknown in the neighborhood, which has the benefit of proximity to Morningside Park. The Monterey, at 351 West 114th Street, is a 36-unit elevator building that became a co-op through a city program that enabled some tax-foreclosed buildings to be transferred to tenant ownership after a city-financed rehabilitation. 
 And the Department of Housing Preservation and Development has not given up its long-cherished hope of transferring many of its tax-foreclosed and vacant Harlem brownstones into private hands for rehabilitation and resale, an approach that has been tried unsuccessfully in the past and is under way again under the Homeworks program.
But the strip of four brownstones on the west side of the avenue running north from 115th Street never fell into city ownership, though they have been vacant for at least 10 years, according to Phillip H. Morrow, who helped initiate the project on behalf of a development partnership that includes his 29-year-old daughter, Nicole. There will be eight duplex condominium apartments.
It seems fitting that Mr. Morrow is promoting the project. As director of development for the Harlem Urban Development Corporation from 1982 to 1995, he ran a condominium development program that eventually led to the construction and sale of 42 apartments in 16 buildings.
He left the organization, renamed the Harlem Community Development Corporation in December 1995, to become president of the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit development company.
But before that job came along, Mr. Morrow went looking for Harlem development opportunities, and found one in the four dilapidated brownstones at 361 through 367 Manhattan Avenue, which were on the market. The seller was James Henderson, an advertising executive in Greenville, S.C., who was the financial partner of Charlotte Ballard, the Harlem investor and developer, when she acquired the buildings in the hope of rehabilitating them for home ownership.
Ms. Ballard at one point had acquired 20 vacant Harlem buildings, hoping to rehabilitate them and rent them out. But in the end she succeeded in doing only six, mainly under city housing programs. Now a resident of Puerto Rico, she said she had sold all her other buildings before she left New York seven years ago.
The partners in the Manhattan Avenue redevelopment, in addition to Ms. Morrow, who will be in charge of sales, are David L. Hirsch, the senior principal in Urban Architectural Initiatives, a Manhattan firm, and James Fillas, president of Vertex Restoration, a contractor based in Astoria, Queens.
Using a construction loan from the Community Preservation Corporation, a bank consortium that finances multifamily residential construction for moderate-income people, the partners have set about to create duplex apartments with about 1,600 gross square feet of space. They are expected to go on the market in May for roughly $160,000 to $170,000 an apartment.
"It's the same model we used at H.U.D.C.," said Mr. Morrow, "and it's what we thought could be done all over Harlem."
For buyers with a 5 percent down payment and closing costs of perhaps $8,000, this will be "very affordable" housing, Mr. Morrow said, with carrying costs of perhaps $1,100 a month. Households with earnings as low as $35,000 to $45,000 will qualify for mortgages. But there will be no income limits for buyers who do not need mortgages financed by the State of New York Mortgage Agency. The developer already has commitments from lenders to provide both conventional and Sonyma mortgages.
Mr. Hirsch, the architect, described a number of techniques that will be used to strengthen salability: spacious "kitchen rooms," or family rooms, separated by an open counter from the food preparation area; generous-sized living rooms, two and a half baths and extremely low common charges, since each duplex will have its own boiler and separate electric, gas and water meters and a design that eliminates common hallways. "The owners will have to get together only to change the light bulb in the vestibule," Mr. Hirsch said.
WHAT the buyers will not have to face is the developer's vexing problem of obtaining a building permit. The process is a major inhibitor of private residential rehabilitation in Harlem.
If a building was ever used for single-room occupancy (that is, divided into rooms that were rented out with no kitchen or full baths), the owner needs to navigate a process of inquiry by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development to establish that no tenants were ever harassed to vacate their rooms.
Despite full cooperation from H.P.D., Mr. Morrow said, the process of advertising for people who might have been harassed years ago to vacate their rooms took six months on three of the buildings.
Then a Department of Buildings examiner discovered computer records suggesting that the fourth building may have been used as an S.R.O. also. A new five-month search was necessary. Eventually, certificates of no-harassment were issued on all the buildings.
The process is enough to discourage most developers, contractors or hopeful owner-occupants from buying vacant buildings for rehabilitation. That in fact was the intent of the legislation when it was enacted in the mid-80's to protect tenants in buildings that may have been more valuable vacant and available for rehabilitation than occupied by low-rent tenants.
Nevertheless, there is an inventory of perhaps 100 to 200 vacant buildings in private hands in Harlem on which redevelopment is inhibited by the uncertainties of the process. On the other hand, if the rules were eased the asking prices for these properties might rise, and successful private redevelopment might still be difficult.
Mr. Morrow said he had searched long and hard before he found a suitably located property that could be purchased for an amount that makes privately financed rehabilitation economically feasible. In this case the developer paid a price that works out to about $12,000 for each of the eight buildable duplexes.
Another path to brownstone rehabilitation is the Section 203k program offered by the Federal Housing Administration, an arm of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. It finances rehabilitation of one- to four- family houses for borrowers who intend to live in the houses, usually with a tenant or two. Chase Bank, the Dime Savings Bank of New York, and the Bank of New York, among others, offer these loans. But again, borrowers must be able to acquire property for prices that will make projects feasible within F.H.A. loan limits.
The loan limits are $160,000 for a one-family house, $205,000 for a two-family, $248,000 for a three-family and $309,000 for a four-family. If construction costs in New York City are, say, $60 a square foot, a buyer might have to spend about $240,000 for reconstruction alone on a 4,000-square-foot house intended for two families. That leaves little room for covering any of the acquisition cost through an F.H.A. loan.
Thus the more promising route occurs when New York City acquires ownership and offers buildings for rehabilitation at prices low enough to assure marketability. In the last few months H.P.D. has designated five separate development groups to rehabilitate 122 vacant brownstones under the Homeworks program in various Harlem locations. They will sell in the low-$200,000 to high-$400,000 range and there are no income limits for purchasers. Construction starts are expected later this year, with occupancy beginning in 1998.
Elsewhere in the city 115 more buildings are to be reconstructed and offered for sale under the Homeworks program. Information about the home ownership programs may be obtained by calling (212) 386-5626, a spokesman for the housing agency said.

GRAPHIC: Photo/Drawing: Four brownstones at 115th Street and Manhattan Avenue (above in 1996) (Urban Architectural Initiatives) will become eight duplexes (left) (M. Ambrosavage).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (60%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; MORROW, PHILLIP H; MORROW, NICOLE; HIRSCH, DAVID L; FILLAS, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



344 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Doing Business With an Expanding Market

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
The New Jersey Supreme Court began certifying foreign legal consultants in 1988, following New York's example, to help insure that residents and businesses received sound advice about legal matters in other countries, said Samuel Uberman, assistant secretary to the Court's Board of Bar Examiners.
Having a certification process in place also allows lawyers licensed to practice here to be certified as consultants on New Jersey and United States law by foreign jurisdictions, which typically require reciprocal arrangements, Mr. Uberman said. "The state benefits by having its lawyers traveling to foreign countries and bringing business back here," he said, "or by having foreign legal consultants here who can help New Jersey companies do business in foreign countries." 
 He stressed, however, that certification does not entitle these consultants to practice law in New Jersey or Federal courts.
To be certified, Haihai Duan Thompson had to submit letters from China's Supreme Court and from lawyers in China and New Jersey attesting to her character and her good standing as a lawyer in China, and certifying that she is conversant with Chinese law.
Ms. Thompson is only the seventh foreign legal consultant certified in New Jersey; there are two each from Poland and Brazil, one from England and one from Argentina. That there is only one consultant for China strikes her and the partners at her Edison law firm, Wong, Tsai & Fleming, as far too few, considering China's vast market potential.
Trade between New Jersey and the People's Republic is expanding rapidly. Exports from New Jersey to China rose 115 percent in 1995, to $647 million, said Lisa Kruse, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Department of Commerce and Economic Development. (Ms. Kruse cited the most recent state figures, which do not include statistics on imports.) Total United States exports to China grew by 6.6 percent in 1996, to $12.5 billion, according to the United States Commerce Department. Trade with China is still well out of balance, with Chinese imports into the United States coming to $48.6 billion last year.
Big corporations doing business in China tend to have their own operations there and retain Chinese law firms directly, said Daniel Fleming, a partner at Wong, Tsai. So, Mr. Fleming said, his firm will market Ms. Thompson's qualifications to middle-market businesses, with annual sales of $1 million to $20 million.
Wong, Tsai already has an affiliation with a lawyer in Hong Kong licensed to practice in China. But Mr. Fleming added: "The face-to-face encounter is very important when you're dealing with lawyers. If we're going to take advantage of those companies that want to take advantage of the business opportunities in China, we really have to have a close link. And Haihai fills that roll."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); ARGENTINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ENGLAND (55%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); ARGENTINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ENGLAND (55%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; LEGAL PROFESSION LAWYERS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, HAIHAI DUAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



345 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3426 words

HEADLINE: In Much of the City, A Robust Market

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
IT'S another Saturday morning and Dan MacGowan, coffee cup at hand, is once again hunched at his desk, poring over the real estate listings. Kathy MacGowan, no longer an ardent adherent to this ritual, sits nearby, reading something -- anything! -- that does not have to do with apartment hunting.
So it has been for too many weekends in the MacGowans' protracted search for the right Manhattan home for sale, the one where they can start and nurture a family. 
 "He's all pumped up for Saturday morning and runs out to get the paper so that we'll be the first ones to make the call," said Ms. MacGowan. "And then he's screaming out apartments at me, asking what I think, telling me to get to the phone and call. And I don't want to deal with it."
The MacGowans -- she a financial consultant with Merrill Lynch, he a neurologist just hired by Beth Israel Medical Center -- are, by definition, not the only New Yorkers feeling the crunch of demand over supply.
"If I were to describe the market, it would be frustrated buyers and cocky sellers," Barbara Corcoran, chairwoman of the brokerage firm that bears her name, said of a Manhattan market where sealed bids and crowded open-house showings are increasingly the modus operandi for those on the supply side.
Sales of Manhattan apartments in 1996 -- continuing a trend that became apparent at the end of 1994 and gathered momentum in '95 -- soared. And, as real estate economists predicted last year, the ripple effect was felt in varying degrees throughout the city.
The number of homes sold in Queens was up by 2.6 percent, while on Staten Island the increase was almost 12 percent, according to realtors' associations. Comprehensive figures for the Bronx and Brooklyn were not available, but individual brokerage concerns in both boroughs reported stronger sales for the year.
The city's price picture, however, was more complicated. Studies of the Manhattan co-op market found modest changes in prices, with their direction depending on such factors as size and location. One study, by the Real Estate Board of New York, found that the average co-op price in Manhattan had declined by 6.8 percent, a drop caused in part by a higher volume of sales of studio and one-bedroom apartments. A comprehensive study of house prices found that of the 130 ZIP-code areas in the boroughs outside of Manhattan, 101 experienced price rises, with Brooklyn and Staten Island leading the way. In Brooklyn, 35 of the 36 ZIP codes showed price increases, as did all 12 ZIP codes on Staten Island.
The MacGowans have been stymied for six months in their search for what those in the trade call a "classic six" -- a three-bedroom or a two-bedroom with a maid's room that Ms. Corcoran says "tops the most-wanted list" because it serves the needs of "affluent couples who want extra space, families with two grown children or young couples starting a family."
During the week, the MacGowans make the rounds with brokers; on weekends they go to open houses. "There'd just be a swarm of people lined up at the door," Ms. MacGowan said. "There's so little even to see. We feel hopeless and frustrated, like this is never going to happen."
But the reason it is not happening for the MacGowans, and for hundreds of other potential buyers, is that it has happened for so very many others.
New York City's robust market, real estate executives and academics say, has been fueled by the record bonuses of a booming Wall Street, level and low mortgage rates, fears that rent regulation might be modified or even expire, an improving job picture, a growing population and the seemingly inexorable influx of immigrants.
"The city's housing phenomenon, and it is a phenomenon, is not simply due to the Wall Street expansion," said Susan Wachter, a professor of real estate economics at the Wharton School of Business, specifically citing immigration and mortgage rates as key accelerants for the hot market.
At one Manhattan concern, "Sales volume has been enormous, a 32 percent increase in '96 over '95," said Joyce West, vice president of the Charles H. Greenthal Group.
"All the leftovers have been gobbled up," said Ms. Corcoran, pointing to the 6,891 sales in her company's survey of last year's co-op and condo market, a 23.1 percent jump over the 5,596 sales in 1995.
And matching the Corcoran Group's calculations almost to the decimal point were the sales reported by the Real Estate Board of New York. The board tracked 2,377 sales in Manhattan last year, a 23.6 percent increase over the 1,923 reported in 1995. The survey was based on data from the 20 companies in the board's residential division.
IN the other boroughs, increased sales volume ranged from about 30 percent in so-called "brownstone Brooklyn" to 2.4 percent for all of Queens. But while there is no doubt about increased volume, identifying price patterns is more difficult.
Divining real estate trends by the numbers is, at best, a murky exercise. To begin with, co-op sales are not officially recorded because, technically, they are securities transactions involving the selling of shares, and not transfers of title. Condominium sales, however, are officially recorded. And, as a result, studies of co-op data compiled by the Real Estate Board and by appraisal concerns and brokerage houses do not claim to include all transactions in the market.
Single-family home sales are reported in most areas by local realty boards. But not all real estate agents are members of the boards, and not all sales in a given area are recorded. And one board may use median prices -- meaning that half the sales are above that figure and half below -- while others calculate an average. Still, the numbers, along with anecdotal impressions, provide indications of market patterns.
Last year, according to the Real Estate Board's report, the average price for Manhattan co-ops was $472,019, a 6.8 percent drop from the $506,378 in 1995. "The explanation for this," said Deborah Beck, vice president of the board, "is that there was a substantial increase in sales of studios and one-bedrooms, which are smaller and typically have lower sale prices" -- skewing the average or median price downward.
The Corcoran Group, according to its report, sold 2,515 one-bedroom apartments in 1996, up 31 percent from the 1,920 sold the year before -- and representing 40 percent of the company's total sales. "That one number drags down the average sale prices," Ms. Corcoran said. "If you just look at the charts, it shows slight increases. For instance, the median price co-op and condo only went from $594,000 to $598,000, according to our study. But if you're out looking for that classic six anywhere in Manhattan you're going to pay at least 10 percent more this year. The people who really know what's going on out there are the ones doing the shopping."
The trend was apparent in the report prepared by the Brown Harris Stevens company, which specializes in upper-end sales. For 1996, Brown Harris recorded 711 transactions at an average price of $888,368, a slight dip from the 735 sales in 1995 at an $885,120. "When you look at different size categories you get different pictures," said Lawrence Sicular, director of appraisal and consulting for Brown Harris.
In the seven- to eight-room market, average prices dropped from $1,326,797 in 1995 to $1,140,392 last year, Mr. Sicular said, while in for the classic six "it was $716,723, and in 1996 it was $811,371" -- a 13.2 percent jump.
Samuel E. Solie, executive vice president of Miller Samuel Inc., a real estate appraisal company, sees a crunch at the high end as contributing to the divergence between volume and price. Mr. Solie is author of the Douglas Elliman company's Manhattan Market Report, which is based on a combination of data from both companies.
"I don't think it's necessarily just the smaller ones" that are skewing prices downward, he said. "What's also happening today is that the highly desirable apartments are often selling in a matter of days, and you hear the brokers talk about a shortage in that tier. What happens then is that they are substituting less desirable apartments, which are cheaper."
Mr. Solie cited as evidence the number of co-op sales tracked for the Elliman report -- a 33 percent increase last year, from 2,981 to 3,970, while average prices only increased from $436,825 to $459,569, a 5.2 percent jump.
The sales-price gap notwithstanding, there is no doubt that the seemingly relentless rise of the stock market, with its commensurate increase in bonuses, has been a driving force for housing demand.
The historic high for year-end bonuses for the city's 150,000 financial workers had been a total of $6.1 billion in 1995, according to a recent report by the New York State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall -- that is, until 1996.
This year, Mr. McCall calculated, the bonuses will infuse $8.1 billion into the economy -- an average of $54,000 a worker, with payments from $10 million for the biggest winners to a few thousand for clerks.
Culling its application forms, the Corcoran Group isolated Wall Street customers from all its other buyers and found that the average price paid by financial workers was $889,000 in 1995, but jumped to $1,170,000 in 1996.
Among those Manhattan areas most in demand, said Ms. West of the Greenthal concern, were Lincoln Center and the Flatiron District. "There are three and four buyers for each property," she said.
But the most dramatic increases were in the downtown loft district. The Corcoran Group tracked 505 downtown loft sales last year, a 40 percent increase over the 361 recorded in 1995. "Any vacant building downtown," Ms. Corcoran said, "has five suitors, developers wanting it, and when it's ready, five buyers wanting each loft."
After 26 years in a Park Avenue co-op, Stephen and Patti Munzer recently paid $750,000 for a loft in a converted factory at Laight and Greenwich Streets, where the archetypal Dietz lantern was once made.
"Patti travels to New Jersey where she works as a communications executive for a chemical manufacturer," Mr. Munzer, a lawyer, said. "The worst part of her commute was in Manhattan because of traffic through the Lincoln Tunnel. Now she goes through the Holland Tunnel right by our house, saving 40 minutes each way."
The sponsor, TriBeCa North Associates, started selling the building's 28 units early last year and, although the conversion work is still under way, has already sold them all. "The miracle is that the guy sold out so quickly, from plans," Mr. Munzer said.
MORTGAGE rates, of course, played a significant role in the housing market. As James W. Hughes, dean of the School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said: "Mortgage rates stayed in the 7.5 percent range last year, and though that is somewhat higher than the low point of this cycle, which was just below 7 percent, compared to the history of the past 25 years, they are still extraordinarily low."
Other factors in the bullish housing market were an inflation rate that stayed just below 3 percent and improved job growth. John L. Weiting, regional commissioner for the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, said the number of private-sector jobs in the city rose by 52,000, from 2,845,000 in 1995 to 2,897,000 in 1996. "It was the largest increase since 1987," Mr. Weiting said.
Another major factor in housing demand was increasing population, particularly spurred by immigration. There were sharp declines in the city's population between 1960 and 1980. But between 1980 and 1990, according to the Census Bureau, the city's population grew 3.5 percent, from 7,071,639 to 7,322,564, and the influx continued during the 90's.
At the same time, the city has experienced an immigration explosion. According to City Planning Commission statistics, based on Immigration and Naturalization Service data, 1,250,000 immigrants have settled in the city since 1982 -- 14.5 percent of all immigrants to the United States. And the rate of immigration has jumped in recent years. During the 1980's, about 86,000 immigrants settled in the city each year; that jumped to 112,598 in the first half of the 90's.
"New York's housing market is directly driven by today's immigrants and the children of immigrants of as much as 30 years ago, who are in their household-formation years," said Wharton's Dr. Wachter.
Michael Schill, director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University's School of Law, and Emily Rosenbaum, a sociology professor at Fordham, are preparing a comprehensive study of immigration and its effects on the housing market. "One reason why immigrants to New York have such a major impact on the housing market is that they have a greater tendency to live in extended families and pool resources for the purchase of housing," Professor Schill said. "Therefore, they can pay higher prices for housing."
The immigration influx was most keenly felt in three of the boroughs outside of Manhattan. According to I.N.S. data, three-quarters of all immigrants who settled in New York from 1990 to 1994 gave as their first destination an address in Brooklyn, the Bronx or Queens, with the largest proportion moving to Brooklyn. And the city's immigrant communities significantly correlate with price appreciation, according to a comparison of two independent surveys.
One was Professor Schill's ZIP code by ZIP code analysis of where the new immigrants settled. The other was a repeat-sale index, devised by Case Schiller Weiss, a company that tracks price fluctuations.
The Case Shiller survey is based on a table showing the average price of all single-family homes sold in ZIP code areas, year by year. To determine fluctuations from 1995 to 1996, for example, the survey took the purchase price of each home sold in each ZIP code during the year just ended, compared it to the price that the house brought the last time it was sold, and then, using the annual index, adjusted the earlier purchase price to what it likely would have been had it sold in 1995. The survey does not cover Manhattan, where there are few single-family homes.
"When we combined the Case Shiller data with data from the 1990 census and recent immigration numbers from the I.N.S., we found that higher rates of immigration to a neighborhood significantly increased house prices in that community," Professor Schill said. "Indeed, two of the five ZIP code areas in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens with the highest rates of price increases -- Bensonhurst and Sunset Park -- were also among the city's top eight neighborhoods in immigration."
Overall last year, Brooklyn experienced a price surge that represented a 180-degree turn from 1995. Of the borough's 36 ZIP codes, according to Case Shiller, only one showed price depreciation in 1996, while 5 increased between 2 and 4 percent; 19 between 4 and 6 percent, and 5 rose by 6 percent or more. In 1995, by comparison, all 36 ZIP codes experienced price depreciation. There is no realty board covering all of Brooklyn, and so no multiple listings to indicate sales volume. But Christopher Thomas, vice president of the William B. May Company, said that in "brownstone Brooklyn, in terms of our sales, '95 was a good year, around 100 sales, while '96 went over 150." Brownstone Brooklyn includes Brooklyn Heights, Cobble Hill, Park Slope, Carroll Gardens, Boerum Hill, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill.
"Prices for low-end property rose 15 percent," Mr. Thomas said. "Let's say we had two-bedroom apartments selling for $225,000 to $250,000 in '95; they now sell from $250,000 up to $325,000."
John Reinhardt, president of Fillmore Real Estate, which has offices throughout the single-family home sections of Brooklyn, said his firm closed deals on about 2,000 homes in 1995 and 2,200 last year, a 10 percent rise. "For instance, Sunset Park, where there is a lot of Asian immigration, it's now Brooklyn's Chinatown and there is steady demand there," Mr. Reinhardt said.
"Our impression is that sales price has gone up about 2.5 percent in all of Brooklyn," Mr. Reinhardt said.
IMMIGRATION was also a factor in the Bronx. Nunzio Del Greco, executive vice president of the Bronx Board of Realtors, said comparisons between last year and 1995 were difficult because of incomplete reports from board members in '95. "We're getting better information now," he said. "But the 502 sales last year are probably 15 to 20 percent higher than in 1995."
Harry Baksh, president of ERA Besmatch Real Estate, with sales throughout most sections of the Bronx, has performed his own survey based on deeds recorded at the Bronx County Courthouse. Mr. Baksh said that about 1,600 homes were sold last year, up 10.3 percent from the 1,450 in 1995.
"The bulk of the properties are within $140,000 to $175,000, at least 60 percent of the market," Mr. Baksh said. "And the strongest areas, representing about 30 percent of all closed deals in the borough, were the contiguous communities of Williamsbridge and Baychester. "They are very strong immigrant communities," Mr. Baksh said. "The children have grown; you have people living in the same house, two incomes of working people."
But while sales volume is up, the Bronx experienced a slippage in prices. According to Case Shiller, of the 25 ZIP codes in the borough, 21 experienced price drops up to 2 percent and three others decreased 2 percent or more. The borough had held its own in 1995 with only one of the 25 ZIP codes showing a decline of more than 2 percent.
On Staten Island, the indicators were somewhat contradictory.
The Staten Island Board of Realtors reported an 11.8 percent increase in volume, from 1,972 transactions in 1995 to 2,205 last year, while the average price for a one-family home rose only 2.2 percent, from $179,112 in 1995 to $183,137 last year.
The Case Shiller Weiss survey, however, indicated an even stronger price appreciation throughout Staten Island. Of the 12 ZIP codes, 11 showed price increases averaging 6 percent or more. A year ago, Case Shiller reported widespread depreciation, with 11 of 12 ZIP codes showing decreases of more than 2 percent.
Lydia Ragucci, president of the local board of realtors, said, "Anything that comes on the market that's priced right and in a nice area sells right away -- sometimes days -- because there's not enough product on the market."
In Queens, according to the New York State Association of Realtors, 4,080 single-family homes were purchased in 1996, a 2.4 percent increase over the 3,976 homes sold in 1995. Median prices rose 2.2 percent, from $157,500 in 1995 to $161,000 last year.
Those price increases paralleled the findings of the Case Shiller ZIP-code study. Of the 57 ZIP-code areas in Queens, only 5 experienced depreciation; 28 showed appreciation of up to 2 percent; 21 showed increases between 2 and 4 percent, and 3 appreciated by 6 percent or more.
And there was renewed strength in the Queens co-op category. About 120,000 co-ops have been converted in Queens since 1982, with a relatively high percentage of them running into financial difficulties, sharply affecting their ability to sell. But last year, 513 co-op apartments were sold in the borough at a median price of $46,600, according to the state realtor's association, compared to 383 transactions in 1995 at a median price of $45,000.
The patterns of the year just past, several market analysts agree, bode well for this year's prospects. "It's going to continue because there have not been any real imbalances in the economy," said Rutgers University's Dr. Hughes. "Inflation is not a problem, hovering below 3 percent. And, unlike the late 80's, there has not been any excessive speculation or overbuilding for condos and co-ops, or in the office market, which helps power the residential sector."
"There's a lot more discipline now in the market among lenders and builders," Dr. Hughes said. "They are not building unless there are commitments for firms to take the office space."
Arthur Zabarkes, dean of N.Y.U.'s Real Estate Institute, agreed that conditions are ripe for another good year. "I expect the immigrant market to still be very strong," he said. "The ripple effect from Manhattan continues.
"There is nothing on the horizon to indicate a collapse in any sector of the economy," Dean Zabarkes said. "And, at the same time, there has been no notable increase in real estate supply. The net effect is that we're going to see increased demand for existing stock."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "What Co-ops Cost" shows median prices of various sizes of Manhattan co-op apartments sold in 1995 and 1996. (Source: Real Estate Board of New York)(pg. 1); "Apartment Sales Are Up" shows sales of both co-operative and condominium apartments in Manhattan from 1998 to 1996. (Source: Douglas Elliman; Yale Robbins)(pg. 6)
 
Maps/Charts: "Changes in House Prices By Zip Code" shows changes in prices of typical single family houses sold in 1996 compared with the previous year in Manhattan, by zip code. (Data: Case Shiller Weiss, Cambridge, Mass.)(pg. 6); "A Strong Year for prices Of Single-Family Houses" shows changes in prices of typical single family houses sold in 1996 compared with the previous year in Manhattan, by town. (Data: Case Shiller Weiss, Cambridge, Mass.)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE BOARD OF NEW YORK MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REAL ESTATE BOARD OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COOPERATIVES REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); TRENDS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); NEUROSCIENCE (67%); SALES FIGURES (64%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



346 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
The Chinese Connection

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: EDISON

 BODY:
WANT to adopt a baby in China? Build a factory there? Haihai Duan Thompson is the one lawyer in New Jersey who can represent you.
Make no mistake, Ms. Thompson couldn't get a speeding ticket reduced in this part of the world. She has never taken the bar exam in New Jersey, or any other state for that matter, and cannot practice law in American courts. But the Bridgewater resident is a licensed attorney in China, and last month she became the first person to be certified by the New Jersey Supreme Court as a foreign legal consultant for China. 
 "You can issue a legal opinion about Chinese law," Ms. Thompson said. "Anything, civil, criminal, commercial and investments, whatever. And secondly, you can represent an individual or company and go back to China whenever you do litigation. You know, bring them back, whenever there is legal business. And third, you can represent Chinese firms or Chinese people who come to this country to do business. You cannot go to court, you cannot do what an American attorney can do. But you can work together because you know Chinese law, you understand the people, culture, everything. Anything related to Chinese law, you can do."
Ms. Thompson, 35, a native of Beijing, was a founding partner in a law firm there specializing in international business when, six years ago, when she met an American graduate student, David Thompson. They were both at the Thunderbird Graduate School of International Management in Phoenix; she was a visiting legal scholar and he was studying international trade. "We were in line to see the same professor about taking a class," said Mr. Thompson, 34, who had spent time in China in 1990. "And her English was not as good as it is now, and I noticed the professor was getting a little impatient with her. So I said to myself, 'Hey, this might be a good opportunity to practice my Chinese.' "
The two became friends. Mr. Thompson finished his studies and took a job with the United States Customs Service in Los Angeles while she stayed in Phoenix. "We called each other every night," she recalled. "We got really close, and he said, 'Why don't you come over here, there's a lot of Chinese, and you could work in import-export?' " She moved right in with him.
Because she was not licensed to practice law in the United States, staying in the country with Mr. Thompson meant subjugating her career to his.
For six years, Ms. Thompson had to forget that she helped start one of China's first private law firms, specializing in the one of the most exciting, dynamic sectors of the economy -- foreign trade. "It was a pretty big deal at the time. We were in the newspaper and magazines and TV all the time," she said of her old firm in Beijing.
"She had to give up a lot," Mr. Thompson acknowledged. "She spent years in law school and then had to go three years for her masters, and she was in the first private practice law firm in China [to specialize in trade], with all kinds of joint ventures going on. She really had a lot of opportunities."
In a country where personal connections are vital to a career, Ms. Thompson's opportunities were tied to her father, Duan Ruilin, a prominent lawyer and former Beijing University professor who helped draft China's first copyright laws. (Ms. Thompson admits, with an embarrassed laugh, that copyright law is still not the most revered in China. "Few people in China realize you cannot copy CD's. You have to pay," she said.) Her mother, Gu Cailian, who will come live with the couple to help care for the child they are expecting next month, is a professor of American history.
Ms. Thompson's move was also affected by the prospect of leaving behind a totalitarian regime that had violently smashed China's student-led democracy movement less than a year before. "I'm never going to forget that," Ms. Thompson said. "Especially after Tiananmen Square, I was having a little bit of doubt about the future of my country."
Her visa was due to expire late that summer, so, after some candid discussion, the pair married on July 30, 1990. "I told him, 'If you really want to marry me just to help me stay in the United States, don't do that because I think I have a better future in China.' He said, 'Hey, I love you. Let's get married.' "
Nearly seven years later, the couple just bought a house in Bridgewater and Ms. Thompson is due to give birth next month to their first child, a daughter, whom they have already named Lindsey.
In Los Angeles, the new Ms. Duan Thompson worked in a nonlegal capacity brokering exports of used technology to China. Then in the fall of 1994, a job change for Mr. Thompson again forced the couple to move, this time to Greensboro, N.C, where he had landed a job with AT&T. She, however, spent much of her time unemployed, occasionally doing export consulting and researching American law schools with the idea, still alive, of getting a degree here.
"American law, we call case law," said Ms. Thompson, who keeps a surprisingly small stack of bright blue Chinese law books just behind her desk. "A lot of things are based on old cases. You have a judgment based on a case and it becomes law. In China, we don't have that. We don't have juries and we don't have case law, we just have regulations. Everything is in this book."
It was only after AT&T's breakup led Mr. Thompson to a job with Lucent Technologies in Berkeley Heights last spring that Ms. Thompson learned of the chance to practice Chinese law once again, but this time in New Jersey. Her associates say she is a natural addition to the firm, whose clientele is about 30 percent Chinese, drawn largely from Edison's community of several thousand immigrants from China and their children.
During her seven-month certification process, Ms. Thompson did translation, research and administrative work for Wong, Tsai & Fleming, where two of the partners, Linda Wong and and Stephen Tsai, are Chinese Americans, and Mr. Fleming and a fourth partner, Gary N. Nissenbaum, are married to Chinese-American women. (While Ms. Duan-Thompson's office is adorned with a print featuring an American Western motif and with pictures of her husband, Mr. Nissenbaum keeps a tiny Zen garden in his office that he rearranges to reflect -- and reflect upon -- his mood.) The partners are counting on Ms. Thompson to attract local businesses looking to be part of China's economic boom.
One of China's fastest-growing exports to the United States is children for adoption. These are often baby girls abandoned by Chinese parents who would prefer a boy to carry on the family name and choose not to exhaust their government-enforced quota of one child, said Flicka Van Praagh, director of international adoptions at Spence-Chapin Services for Families and Children, an adoption agency with offices in Manhattan and Summit. Since China began allowing foreign adoptions in 1992 -- and charging a fee that now totals $6,000 for each one -- the number of children adopted by American families and individuals has risen from 206 in 1992 to 3,333 in 1996, Ms. Van Praaugh said.
Ms. Thompson said the imminent arrival of her own baby girl has made her sensitive to the issue. But rather than try to change China's population-control policies, she would rather do her part to find those children homes. "I think they need love and they need parents," she said.
Ms. Thompson said she plans to avoid human rights and criminal law. New Jerseyans with friends or family facing criminal charges in China are better off seeking help through diplomatic channels, she said. The crackdown in Tiananmen Square made her want to turn her back on the Chinese justice system entirely and instead to focus on improving her country through economic growth.
"When you've just graduated from college, especially after majoring in law, you want to get involved in politics," said Ms. Thhompson, who does not believe Deng Xiaoping's passing will bring about much change in China's economic or human rights policies soon. "And you figure, 'I can help my country.' And then this happens, and you really feel like you are so small and you really can't do anything to help," she said. "And the government is so big, so powerful, that you better just forget about it. The way you can help is to live a good life, be a good person, do good things."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haihai Duan Thompson, who was an attorney in Beijing, now works for the Wong, Tsai & Fleming firm in Edison. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: WONG TSAI & FLEMING NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (57%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WONG TSAI & FLEMING NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (57%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; NEW JERSEY; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; LEGAL PROFESSION LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); LITIGATION (78%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); ADOPTION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE; THOMPSON, HAIHAI DUAN

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



347 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2798 words

HEADLINE: Citizenship Wars

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD

 BODY:
IN the seven years since Noel Gaynor left a prison in Northern Ireland and arrived in the United States, he has married his long-time American sweetheart, begun to raise a family and supported them by fashioning everything from wood harps to shingle roofs. On weekends, he has coached junior soccer, and on St. Patrick's Day he has marched in the parade.
But Mr. Gaynor's new life continues to be haunted by his old one as a member of the Irish Republican Army, by the politics of terrorism and the law. Once a target of the British court system, which deals harshly and sometimes summarily with those fighting British rule in Northern Ireland, he has now become a target of American immigration officials. The United States wants to deport him, and the newest laws on the books make it increasingly likely that it can do so, no matter how exemplary a life he has been living. 
 That life has made Noel Gaynor a rallying point for Federal lawmakers and others who want to help a potential citizen, as well as those who see his case as a way to take issue with bureaucracy gone too far.
Like Mr. Gaynor, at least six other former I.R.A. members across the United States are also facing deportation because they checked "no" in a box on their original visa application that asked if they had ever comitted a crime. (They believe they have not.) Seven Palestinians and a Kenyan, known as the L.A. Eight, face deportation for similar reasons and because immigration officials argue that their support of such groups as the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine -- which has carried out terrorism -- makes them terrorists themselves.
But these are just the best known of a group that also includes thousands of legal immigrants who were once arrested here or overseas for crimes that range from possession of drugs to shoplifting. All face imminent deportation under the new laws.
Many are already involved in a struggle that Mr. Gaynor has been fighting since the day he applied for a visa in 1990, telling immigration officials about his I.R.A. past and the reason he felt he had committed no crime. Since then, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has done everything in its power to make the 43-year-old immigrant's stay precarious, from questioning his friends and family to arresting him at his job, from ordering a series of deportation hearings to saying he has no legal right to be heard.
At issue are Mr. Gaynor's two-decade-old conviction for his part in the 1973 I.R.A. assassination of a Protestant policeman, and a difference of interpretation over whether his role with the I.R.A. makes him a terrorist or a freedom fighter.
But in the wake of tough new immigration statutes passed last year, particularly those rushed through under the guise of anti-terrorism measures, people like Mr. Gaynor have found little ability to plead their case before an immigration judge and little hope of having it reviewed in the Federal courts.
His supporters include not only hundreds of citizens and friends, but also Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, and six New Jersey House members. After all, they say, he is a family man who pays his taxes and contributes to his community, and the crime happened long ago. The trial, they add, took place in one of the country's notorious Diplock courts, established 25 years ago to deal quickly ( no jury, restrictions on presentation of evidence) with crimes arising from the eruption of violence in Ulster.
His supporters also say the crime was not murder, but an act of political violence during what many consider a war. Or, as his Congressman, Representative William J. Pascrell Jr., a Democrat, put it while leading Mr. Gaynor to the speakers' platform during a St. Patrick's Day parade in Newark last Sunday: "He was a freedom fighter, and he deserves every break in the book. This is not what we intended when we passed the law."

The Arduous Task Of Making a Case
Even before the immigration laws changed last fall, many like Mr. Gaynor faced or could expect to face an arduous task in explaining the subtleties of their case to an immigration judge. Some would have had to show that their foreign convictions took place in courts that bore little resemblance to those in America, without a jury, and where secret evidence was presented to the judge but not to the defense lawyer, where confessions were coerced or taken down before the defendants were granted a lawyer. Others would have to argue that their support of unsympathetic causes did not make them terrorists. But under the new law, judges have less leeway in making individual determinations, and the Attorney General would no longer have the right to waive deportation in cases of "aggravated felony," a category that now includes many nonviolent drug and theft offenses where the sentence is a year or more.
Aliens committing some less serious offenses, known as crimes of moral turpitude, could also be deported by immigration officials even if no jail time was served. Based on state laws, these crimes would include, for example, shoplifting or jumping subway turnstiles. Neither crime category permits judicial review of a deportation order. (Immigration courts are a part of the executive branch of government, not the judiciary.)
This is also the case for any alien who arrives seeking asylum from persecution without the correct paperwork.
"The avenues for relief have been severely curtailed or completely eliminated, while the grounds for deportation have been greatly expanded," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the National Immigrant's Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union. "The new immigration laws are harsh and unrelenting and contrary to nearly 100 years of American history."
That is not the view of the I.N.S., which sees the new law as a way to enforce respect of a citizenship process long abused by many foreigners, including Mr. Gaynor. In his case, the agency has argued that nothing matters but his foreign conviction and his failure to note it as a crime on his tourist visa in 1990.
"We expect individuals to answer questions truthfully,"said Russell A Bergeron, a spokesman for the agency. "The determination of whether that conviction is a crime or an act of political opposition is a determination for the U.S. Government, not the individual filing the application.
"We think these laws will have a significant impact on removing them from the U.S. and put credibility back into immigration enforcement," he said.
Hero or terrorist? Mr. Gaynor resembles neither. Instead, he looks very much like the union laborer he is, a compact man with thick, coarse hands. His speaks a brand of nonviolent Irish nationalism, levened by references to his wife and two small girls, and memories of a peaceful childhood in the flat industrial town of Lurgan, near Belfast.
It was in the cramped Catholic neighborhoods of his youth that he first saw the destruction that could be wrought throwing rocks and stones, gunfire or bombs. But it did not begin that way.
Many of his earliest friends, he said, were Protestants from the other side of town. They were on the same football teams; they fished in the same mingling of rivers and took the dogs out to hunt rats at the same local dump. Their ghettos were often separate, but their interests were the same.
"No one asked you what religion you were because you were all young," he said. "You played soccer. You didn't get into politics. That was for the adults."
In fact, Northern Ireland had been in relative peace since 1921, when the British separated the troublesome mix of Roman Catholics and Protestants in Ireland's six northern counties from the predominantly Catholic south, making the latter a free state while continuing to tether the north. Catholics in Northern Ireland never ceased to complain about jury-rigged elections that denied Catholics without property the right to vote and gave Protestants near complete government control. They also continued to grumble about the discrimination they encountered in the search for jobs and housing.
Violence did not break out in earnest again until the late 1960's, when Catholics in Northern Ireland took a cue from the civil rights movement in America and started their own peaceful demonstrations at home, demanding more of a say in politics and a stake in the economy. Many also began to call for self-rule and unification with the south.
In turn, Protestants demonstrated in support of the status quo and the country's strong ties to Britain. Sectarian violence finally erupted in 1968, when bands of thugs on both sides began to burn out, beat and kill their "wrong-sided" neighbors.
This was the rebirth of several paramilitary forces, including the I.R.A. and the Protestant-led Ulster Volunteer Force. It also marked the return of the British Army after more than 40 years of furlough.
Mr. Gaynor joined the I.R.A. around 1972, near his 18th birthday. He had already become an expert at throwing rocks and bottles at the British soldiers who swarmed about his neighborhood shooting tear gas into crowds and deflecting protest with rubber bullets. And he slowly fell in with a radical element.
But the defining moment came about two years earlier, on the night when his house was searched by British soldiers -- a common occurrence in Northern Ireland in the early 1970's. Mr. Gaynor said the British, apparently believing that either he or his father had been helping the I.R.A., stormed into the family home and dragged his father out of bed. As he resisted, one soldier struck the 61-year-old man across the head with a rifle butt. The soldiers searched the apartment, ripping up floorboards and tearing the cabinets off the wall, Mr. Gaynor said.
"This was when I decided," Mr. Gaynor said. "I was about 15 years old, and there was my father, a milkman, beaten and afraid on the floor."
Mr. Gaynor's father tried to get his three sons to leave Ireland for America or Australia. Only one did at the time, and it wasn't Mr. Gaynor. He would be drawn increasingly into the fight.
"It wasn't immediate, like some guy walked up to you as you threw stones and said, 'Hey, you look like a good I.R.A. man.' It was gradual. From playing football with my friends to marching in the peace rallies, I went to throwing bottles and stones at the British," Mr. Gaynor said. "But people couldn't protect their areas from the British forces and the Protestant gangs, so someone stepped in and promised to do it. For the Catholics, it was the I.R.A."
In, 1977, a special anti-terrorism court convicted Mr. Gaynor of murder and sentenced him to life in prison for his part in an I.R.A. attack four years earlier. The office of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland said Mr. Gaynor was one of several spotters assigned to a section of Lurgan to point out potential security-force targets to two I.R.A. gunmen in a nearby house. One target, a two-man police patrol, was attacked. Two bullets hit one of the officers, who died within the hour.
(Northern Ireland's police force is overwhelmingly Protestant. Besides working closely with the British Army, its members have been cited for providing intelligence files to Protestant paramilitary units, which then used them to find and kill Catholics. Because of this tie to the British military, Mr. Gaynor's immigration lawyers can still argue that the conviction was of a purely political nature.)
Mr. Gaynor was arrested three years after the attack. A confession he gave was coerced by beatings, he said. After his his conviction, sent to Longkesh Prison.

First Pen Pals, Then Married Life
 Colleen Connelly, an Irish-American from New York, began writing to Mr. Gaynor as a lark on Christmas Day 1987.
Hundreds of letters followed, leading up to a prison visit in January 1989 that sealed their attraction.
"When I left, he told me that we should each immediately write letters so that they will cross in the mail," Mrs. Gaynor said. "He said we could then be honest about how we felt. I was already on cloud nine."
When Mr. Gaynor was granted an early release in June that year, she returned to Northern Ireland twice to be with him during his parole. He said they considered staying in his hometown of Lurgan, but that British soldiers helped him change his mind during an impromptu visit.
"They said that if I thought 14 years was enough time, that I was mistaken," he said, adding that retaliation by soldiers and Protestant militants is still common in Northern Ireland, an assertion that is backed up by news reports detailing killings of both former I.R.A. members and their families.
"I figured that while I was maybe a legitimate target because of my past, I couldn't put Colleen in that kind of danger," he said. A year later, he flew to New York on a tourist visa, and on March 25, 1990, the couple married. The attempt to get a green card began.
When they started immigration proceedings, based on his marriage and his fear of persecution in Northern Ireland, they told I.N.S. officials about Mr. Gaynor's conviction and the reason he did not consider it a felony, Mr. Gaynor said.
While the I.N.S. considered their argument, Mr. Gaynor was granted a temporary work permit. It was renewed without incident until February 1993, when I.N.S. agents arrived at Mr. Gaynor's job at a lumber mill near their first home in Olean, N.Y., and arrested him, saying that he did not have the right to apply for asylum.
Mr. Gaynor's father-in-law put up the $50,000 bail -- his life savings -- and the fight was on. During this period, the Gaynors moved several times, at first to put a distance between them and the embarrassment of Mr. Gaynor's arrest and then to find a town they thought would give them a nice home and provide a good education for their two children, Sinead and Brady.
Two years ago, they settled in Bloomfield, where neighbors and friends set up a fund to help the family pay for their legal fight and members of Congress in the state began to take an interest in their case.
Things looked good until Nov. 6, shortly after President Clinton signed into law several changes in the immigration code. On that day Immigration Judge Walter A. Durling in Buffalo interpreted one of these changes as denying Mr. Gaynor the right to argue his petition for asylum before the court.
"The judge's decision, based upon the amendment to the law, cut us off at the knees," said James P. Harrington, one of Mr. Gaynor's lawyers. "We were never allowed to present our case on the merits of Mr. Gaynor's political asylum application. We were told that we couldn't bring this up, that he is not eligible for any form of relief."
Although lawyers for Mr. Gaynor and the other Irishmen facing deportation say they will appeal any such decisions to the Board of Immigration Appeals, the new amendments make their cases harder to win.
"If he loses before the board of appeals, then the I.N.S. will say that under the new law he has no right to a hearing before the Federal courts," said Dan Kesselbrenner, the director of the National Immigration Project for the National Lawyers Guild. "That is the potential danger for many immigrants with strong issues."
He said the Gaynor case illustrates how shortsighted Congress was. The revisions, he noted, were proposed after what at first appeared to be a foreign terrorist attack in Oklahoma City, after many Government officials blamed needy non-citizens for dwindling resorces and when the I.N.S. was complaining about an estimated 5 million illegal aliens swamping the borders and clogging the courts.
"This was sound-bite legislation," Mr. Kesselbrenner said. The best hope now for immigrants like Mr. Gaynor is the introduction of legislation to revise the rules by some of the same lawmakers who supported the original bills. Many who have become involved in the Gaynor case say they are planning just that. Some, like the 62 members forming the Congressional Ad Hoc Committee for Irish Affairs, have pleaded with President Clinton to intercede on behalf of the Irish facing deportation.
"This is a situation where the Government has just not thought clearly," Senator Torricelli said. "Noel Gaynor has paid his debt to society and has built a constructive life in America. There is nothing to be gained from both breaking up his young family and putting him in personal danger."
Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of Union City, said: "We are looking at ways to amend the law. Congress got swept up in the moment and was concerned about problems of real terrorism and things, but this goes beyond our intent."
He added: "We don't want to undermine the very purpose of the immigration laws and our system of justice to do so."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Noel Gaynor, the younger of the two children upper left, joined the I.R.A. in the early 70's and was imprisoned for murder in 1977. Far right, he and his family outside the Federal building in Newark. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); St. Patrick's Day parades, like last week's in Newark, have been part of Noel Gaynor's life here since he arrived seven years ago. Below, at home in Bloomfield with his wife, Colleen, and daughters, Sinead, 6, and Brady, 3. The couple, married for seven years, began their relationship as pen pals while Mr. Gaynor was in prison. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (IRA) IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (90%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (IRA) IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (90%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NORTHERN IRELAND; UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DEPORTATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS DEPORTATION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); REFUGEES (70%); ARRESTS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); SHOPLIFTING (65%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R; GAYNOR, NOEL

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



348 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 21; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Sunday, March 16, 1997: You Are There;
Plight of the Emu

 BODY:
A few weeks back, authorities in Lubbock County, Tex., pulled eight murder victims out of a ravine. The corpses were emus -- bug-eyed, flightless birds native to Australia that have been hyped as a potential livestock bonanza because of
their meat, oil and hides. Tragically, that dream is dying. "Market's bottomed out," says Capt. Andy Jackson of the Lubbock County Sheriff's Department. "People can't afford to feed their birds, so they just let 'em go. Neighbors get irritated and shoot 'em." At the height of the early-90's emu frenzy, when hundreds of Texans invested in upward of 50,000 birds, proven breeder pairs sold for $40,000. They now fetch as little as $200. Even so, some gritty emu fans are standing firm. Recently, we visited the spread of Duncan and Bitsy Cartwright, southeast Texas ranchers (250 acres, 900 birds) who believe a turnaround is imminent. Here's a commodity analysis of how, during a bust period, they're still managing to think boom.
 
MEAT
The Dream: If we can just hold on, I know better times are around the corner, says Bitsy, a stout, friendly woman in her late 50's. She's convinced that emu leg meat -- beefy- tasting, low-calorie stuff -- will become a national taste sensation real soon. In preparation, the Cartwrights are increasing their slaughter bird population by hatching hundreds of eggs. Surrounded by dozens of stilt-legged fowls, Duncan, 62, explains with a drawl how to select a top breeder. "Gotta be a good-size bird, preferably with a big, wide body," he says. You got to go with body capacity. If she don't have it, she'll blow out on you. 
 The Reality: Although the Cartwrights peddle emu jerky to local convenience stores, only a handful of high-end stores and restaurants seem interested in emu cutlets, pricey delicacies that cost $7 per pound. Many ranchers, despairing of the $300-per-head annual feeding cost, have either stopped hatching all together or set their birds loose.
 
OIL AND LOTION
The Dream: Over a meal of chicken-fried emu -- which is quite good -- Bitsy insists that nothing eases her arthritis better than an emu-oil rubdown. The oil also supposedly lowers blood cholesterol and heals flaky skin. The Cartwright home is jammed with several large boxes of their perkily packaged Dermelegance line of emu lotion.
The Reality: There's no convincing evidence that emu oil has medicinal value. The lotion also faces an uphill battle. Imagine saying to your wife, 'Here, stick this bird fat on your body,' says Jim Mjelde, a resource economist at Texas A&M University who has studied the emu industry. "People in the United States just don't do that. There's a cultural bias against putting animal fat on yourself."
 
HIDES
The Dream: Sitting on her living-room couch, Bitsy displays an impressive collection of emu-leather products -- credit-card pouches, wallets, key chains. Duncan runs his fingers across the bumpy hide of a pair of black emu cowboy boots. Feel that, he coos. The leather has great potential.
The Reality: Emu leather also has some problems. The hides are so delicate, they tend to split when you tan them, says Raleigh Jobes, professor emeritus of agricultural economics at Oklahoma State University. Don Kuker of the Texas Department of Agriculture is a booster, but admits that the leather isn't perfect, in part because many emus have scarred hides. To tell you the truth, he says, providing an apt metaphor for an industry seemingly at war with itself, emus fight each other a lot.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Greg Clarke)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIRDS; EMUS (BIRDS); BREEDING OF ANIMALS BIRDS (91%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); ORNITHOLOGY (77%); RETAILERS (74%); SHERIFFS (73%); RESTAURANTS (62%); CONVENIENCE STORES (62%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); 

PERSON: CARTWRIGHT, DUNCAN; CARTWRIGHT, BITSY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



349 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 12; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BRIARWOOD;
Close Knit, but Closed Out

BYLINE: By SUZANNE FREEMAN 

 BODY:
In a kitchen on 86th Avenue in Briarwood, Queens, Istam Kaziyeva, a 67-year-old Bukharian Jewish woman from Tashkent, Uzbekistan, rolls a stiff, tan ball of dough into a flat circle about the size of a medium pizza. She then carefully places the bread over the rounded bottom of a wok turned upside down and slides it into her natural gas oven to bake.
Until four years ago, Mrs. Kaziyeva made this nontoki bread in a brick tandoori oven in the backyard of the family home in Central Asia. In 1993 the family sold the house that Mrs. Kaziyeva's husband, Iliya Kaziyev, had built, gave away the furniture and moved with their family, then 14 members, to Queens. 
 While Ms. Kaziyeva has learned to adapt her breadmaking to modern appliances, her family, like 90 percent of the 40,000 Bukharian Jews who have settled in Rego Park, Forest Hills and Briarwood, Queens, is facing a bigger adjustment: the possible loss of health care benefits because of changes in the welfare and immigration laws.
Letters explaining the policies have caused such a panic among the Bukharian Jews in Queens that Ms. Kaziyeva's son, Rabbi Averich Kaziyev, and Susanna Simon, the executive director of the Bukharian Jewish World, a biweekly newspaper, have obtained licenses to teach citizenship classes in the Briarwood Synagogue beginning next month.
The Kaziyevs were told they had 10 months to become citizens or risk losing Medicaid benefits. Others in the community have been ordered to participate in the city's Work Experience Program or lose benefits. Many Bukharians believe that 19-year-old Aron Akilov, also from Uzbekistan, hanged himself two weeks ago because he had to abandon his English classes to comply with the work requirement.
The struggle to learn English has proven to be a major barrier to economic independence to the close-knit community. Only the more secular Bukharians, like Ms. Simons, who speaks English fluently, interact with people outside the neighborhood enough to take jobs elsewhere.
Paradoxically, the Bukharians' traditions have kept them from profiting from a technique adapted after centuries of oppression in their predominately Muslim homeland. Ms. Simon said Bukharians learn two professions, which she described as "one intellectual, one simple." "We do this because we are Jews and we can be thrown out of our country," said Ms. Simon, who was an ecological geneticist in Uzbekistan. "In another country you are not intelligent anymore. You don't know the language. But you can still practice the simple profession you learned."
Rabbi Kaziyev, for example, was a geologist and a tailor before completing his rabbinical studies. He still makes his own trousers.
Mrs. Kasiyeva said her hope is for the children. She has a 9-year-old grandson who has forgotten his Russian and speaks only English. They communicate through their traditions, she says.
"They are happier here despite the hardships because all the children and grandchildren are together," Ms. Simon said of the Kasiyevs. "It is easier to live because they are together and can help one another." SUZANNE FREEMAN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Istam Kaziyeva, with husband Iliya, found a new way to bake her bread. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; ; FOREST HILLS (NYC); REGO PARK (NYC); BRIARWOOD (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; JEWS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID ; WELFARE (US) JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MEDICAID (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); CITIZENSHIP (68%); REFUGEES (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%); 

PERSON: KAZIYEVA, ISTAM; KAZIYEVA, ILIYA; FREEMAN, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



350 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
A Hip-Hip-Hooray For City, But Jeers On Two Problems

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
Ask New Yorkers what they like best about their city, and their answers are as varied as the people: the excitement, the culture, the convenience, to cite a few of the most frequent responses. But ask what they like least, and the responses most often are crime and drugs.
These are some of the findings of the most recent New York Times Poll of New Yorkers, conducted this month. Some people appreciate the transit system the most, while others are drawn to the economic opportunities. Some New Yorkers say they enjoy the conveniences found in the city, and still others approve of the variety it has to offer. 
 "New York is a wonderful place," said Hector DeJesus, 62, a retired engineer who was among those re-interviewed after the poll was conducted. "I love the theaters, the restaurants, the stores," said Mr. DeJesus, who lives in the Clinton section of Manhattan. "I can do everything here I've always wanted to do."
Maya Glazynova, 19, a student at Long Island University in Brooklyn, said life in New York offered her the "opportunity to go to a nice college that I could not otherwise afford." Ms. Glazynova, originally from Odessa, Ukraine, moved to Bensonhurst seven years ago.
Ruth Pettie, 57, a former city employee, said she liked the diversity she found in the city. But while she enjoyed "a large variety of different cultures," she said she disliked the overpopulation and overcrowding she was seeing, particularly where she lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
Underneath the surface of favorable feelings toward New York lies a continuing fear of crime. While 43 percent of those polled saw New York City as safer than it was four years ago, crime was cited by almost a third of those questioned as the most unpleasant feature of life in the city.
Lisa Lopez, a 30-year-old job search specialist from Queens, who has been mugged, said she was concerned about "teen-agers, with guns and knives," particularly outside the boundaries of her neighborhood, South Ozone Park, Queens.
The telephone poll was conducted March 1 through March 6 with 1,397 adults throughout the city. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Of course, in typical New York style, what one New Yorker admires, another condemns. Some view a ride on the subway as a quick way to get somewhere, while others see it as a possible threat to their safety.
In praising the transit system, Gail Rodriguez, 41, a teacher from Bayside, Queens, said: "I can get anywhere I want. I don't have to drive to get somewhere."
But Ada Johnson, a 46-year-old homemaker from Bedford-Stuyvesant, worried about crime on the subways and buses. "If somebody sees something you have that they like, they just take it," Mrs. Johnson said. "You don't see a lot of police in the subways or on the buses." MARJORIE CONNELLY

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The New York Times Poll: The Good, the Bad and the Convenient"
Here are the most frequently volunteereed responses to two questions in a New York Times Poll:
 
"What do you like best about living in New York City?"
Convenience of the transit system 10%
Things to do, places to go, variety 8
Job or economic opportunities 8
Convenience, near things 8
Culture, museums 6
 
"What do you like least about living in New York City?"
Crime, drugs 31%
Dirt, garbage, pollution 8
Poverty, unemployment 7
Traffic, congestions 5
Expensive, high cost of living 5
 
(Based on a poll of 1,397 adults conducted by telephone March 1 to 6 throughout New York City.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (57%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); UKRAINE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (57%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES POLL; LIFE STYLES CITY LIFE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TRENDS (79%); CITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); 

PERSON: CONNELLY, MARJORIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



351 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Who Will Watch the Babies?

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
THE REV. W. OSCAR CHENOWETH stepped out of his car last Sunday morning, wearing his vestments and collar and a smile. The Buildings Department had just issued his church a certificate of occupancy allowing its day care center to bring in more than 100 pre school children during the week. Perhaps his struggling church could survive another month. There was much to celebrate.
Then the smile cracked. Lying at the foot of the door was a shattered bottle of malt liquor that someone had thrown against his Soul Cleansing Church of Jesus Christ in Hollis, Queens. "It's a very tough neighborhood," Mr. Chenoweth said, "and things are getting worse." 
 Hollis is a mix of middle-class homeowners, the working poor and the outright poor, and for all the euphoria about the rebound in the city's fortunes, the wave of prosperity has yet to wash over this neighborhood. Instead, with cutbacks in government jobs, unemployment here has risen steadily. With Federal welfare reductions, there will be even less money funneled into the neighborhood. So as struggling middle-class and welfare mothers look for work, many of them ask: Who will watch the babies?
"Nobody knows," Mr. Chenoweth said. "People are holding on to what they have, preparing for war in a time of peace. Who can afford to spend a third of their income on good child care?"
Privately run day care centers like Mr. Chenoweth's lie at the heart of the answer -- and they also illustrate the problem of getting adequate care for children. The cost of running such centers can be tremendous -- the rent on Mr. Chenoweth's church, which houses the Hollis Community Service Center Inc., has tripled since 1993, and he has spent thousands in renovations ordered by the city. Those costs are passed on to parents who are already struggling; if they cannot afford the increase, they pull their children out. In Mr. Chenoweth's case, even though demand outpaces supply, his center is slowly hemorrhaging clients and money.
The city spends at least $100 million a year to subsidize day care, either through direct financing of centers, or vouchers and cash payments to poor parents for child care. With care at registered centers running about $124 a week per child, many parents are turning to informal child care that costs as little as $40 a week. Many informal centers are cheap storefronts or are run out of homes that do not meet fire codes and are staffed by uncertified workers who often lack background checks.
"It's the working poor and the middle class who are caught up," said Dwayne Andrews, a spokesman for Representative Floyd H. Flake, whose Congressional district includes Hollis. "You have to be rock-bottom poor to get qualified help. Middle-class and working families can just barely afford day care as it is. Without help they must go to uncertified care."
The city currently finances 305 day care institutions at 427 sites, in addition to paying hundreds of operators who care for 50,000 children in small groups in their homes. But even now there are not enough slots to accommodate the more than 10,000 children of the poor and working poor who are waiting for day care, according to the city's Administration for Children's Services.
"With welfare reform, we can certainly anticipate that there will be more families who will need day care services," said Maggie Lear, a spokeswoman for the children's services agency.
Many will rely on neighborhood centers like the Hollis Community Service Center, which Mr. Chenoweth began in his storefront church at Jamaica Avenue and 193d Street eight years ago. It started with a drug sweep.
"The police came one night when people were barbecuing and drinking beer," Mr. Chenoweth recalled. "They came and took some people away. What the police did not ask and did not realize was that there were children left alone upstairs.
"We received a call from neighbors and we cared for the children at our church until relatives could be notified. That's when I knew something had to be done."
By 1993, the church was providing day care for 128 children. The Health Department ordered the center brought up to code before it would issue a license. Wiring was redone, plumbing replaced, walls repainted, and a certified staff of 13 hired. But the cost of renovations and the increased rent all but crippled the center.
Cutbacks became necessary; the staff was whittled to five. With fewer staff came fewer children, fewer children meant less money, and less money now means that the center is $50,000 in debt and three months behind on its rent. The center currently charges $85 per week per child, which includes two meals and 12 hours of care. Lately, more clients have left as the pastor has intimated that he may have to raise the fee to $125 a week.
Last month, Mr. Chenoweth received good news: the United Way had awarded the center a $20,000 grant. The money has been spent on contractors and back wages.
"It was not a great amount, but there are a lack of certified centers in these communities and we need to invest in their growth," said Ralph Dickerson Jr., president of the United Way of New York City.
It is indeed a necessity for Rodrigue Marc. Mr. Chenoweth lets him bring his children to day care even though he cannot pay. He recently lost his $7.60-an-hour warehouse job when the company relocated.
"Making people go to work is a good thing," Mr. Marc, 48, said. "But there's no factory around here. It's going to take time. In the meanwhile, people are scared as to what they're going to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Hollis Community Service Center, children get care from a certified staff. But the $85-a-week fee could go to $125. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PARENTING: Careful Day Care"
What to look for when choosing a private day care center.
 
PERMITS -- All private day care centers handling seven or more children must be licensed by the Health Department. Each should have the following permits, which they should present to prospective clients on demand:
 
Certificate of Occupancy -- States the maximum occupancy and the intended use of the building (issued by Department of Buildings) .
 
Fire -- Permits state that the building meets all fire code requirements (Fire Department).
 
PERSONNEL -- All personnel must be fingerprinted and checked for criminal convictions. Background and references must be checked by the center.
 
Educational director -- Must be an accredited teacher with a minimum of two years experience as a group teacher of children under six years of age. The director may not teach if there are more than 40 children enrolled in the service.
 
Teachers -- Must be certified by the Board of Education in early childhood classes and have completed at least 150 hours of observation. They may supervise no more than 8 children under age 1, 10 children ages 1-3, 15 children ages 3-4, 20 children ages 4-5 and 25 children ages 5-6.
 
Assistant teachers -- Must be at least 19 years old and possess a high school diploma, 60 college credits or a child development credential.
 
OTHER REQUIREMENTS -- The center must ask for the health records of your child.
 The facility must be clean and spacious and provide an outdoor play space. (Source: New York City Health Code)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOLLIS COMMUNITY SERVICE CENTER (NYC); SOUL CLEANSING CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST (NYC) SERVICE CENTER INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOLLIS COMMUNITY SERVICE CENTER (NYC); SOUL CLEANSING CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DAY CARE CENTERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RELIGION (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); FAMILY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (52%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (50%); 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



352 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 3; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: For Those Who Lived It, The Surf Club Lives On

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL 

 BODY:
TOBY BEAVERS, older and balder but still cavorting like someone recently bounced out of prep school, was back in town, and once again looking for the party. "This town is so dead right now," Mr. Beavers said over dinner at a nearly empty club on the Upper East Side.
But it was still early, 8 P.M., and for one night the town -- or at least Mr. Beavers's slice of it -- was coming back to life in honor of the Surf Club, the infamous bar and dance club he once owned, closed now for seven long years. 
 Such is the Surf Club's place in the mythology of urban night life that more than 200 former regulars showed up for a reunion and 43d birthday party for Mr. Beavers on March 6. For a few hours, it was as if the Dow had just broken 2,000, shoulder pads were the height of fashion, and everyone was too young to know the words "recession" or "rehab."
Mr. Beavers, a scion of New York's Old Guard who now lives mainly in Rhode Island, ordered the first of many beers as old friends began to stream into Decade, a new club on First Avenue at 61st Street that was the setting for the reunion.
Many of the men were in dinner jackets, and the women, who all seemed to be blondes, wore cocktail dresses or fuzzy sweaters and gold earrings. These days this set's drug of choice is a cigar rather than the cocaine that some remember flowing freely at the Surf Club. Despite the years since their halcyon youth, they made brave efforts to dance. "They all look like they have back problems," one of Decade's lithe young hostesses said.
If she'd only known them way back when! "The Surf Club was a unique 80's thing," said John R. Maupin, a banker who had been a regular when limousines lined up for a block at 91st Street and York Avenue, and supplicants waved $100 bills at the doorman. "For a brief, shining moment it was the hottest club in the world."
Clubs come and go, burning brightly for a year or two if they are fashionable. Years later they may still inspire passion in the hearts of aging patrons, whose peak of youthful adventure coincided with a moment in the culture. Some clubs retain a more legendary aura than others, including the 70's gay disco Paradise Garage, the early-80's hipster scene at Area, and the faux-Victorian Nell's of a few years later. The Surf Club, which opened on Christmas Eve in 1984, perfectly caught a wave of yuppie exuberance.
It was the heyday of New York dance clubs, coinciding with a booming economy, legions of young people moving to the city and a more naive attitude toward drugs. Where other clubs courted the downtown crowd, the Surf Club happily welcomed entire training classes of junior analysts from Salomon Brothers.
Indifferently decorated with a stuffed sailfish, striped umbrellas and white lattice that echoed a private beach club in Quogue or Edgartown, it instantly felt like home to young blue bloods with trust funds. Many already knew Mr. Beavers and his younger brother and partner, Angus, who were heirs to a fortune traced back to two old New York families, the Beekmans and the Devereauxs.
"Everybody seemed to have gone to the same schools," recalled Laura Rossiter, who went to St. Paul's and eventually married an Andover man. "You would meet all the players in New York. This is where it was at."
Despite the staid image of the crowd, clubgoers, by most accounts, behaved with abandon. "The great thing about the Surf Club that doesn't exist today," said Doug Dechert, a freelance gossip writer who went there almost nightly, "is that all we had to do was go there, and we'd go home with a different girl. Fact. A whole generation of Upper East Side guys went five years without ever having to take a girl out to dinner."
Pure swagger perhaps, but Tinky Baeder, a nurse at the time who was an inveterate Surf Clubber, described herself as "one of the few survivors" who "didn't lose my shirt two or three times a week."
"Everybody was a trader, quote-unquote," she added. "They used to say, 'Can I buy you a drink?' and I'd throw their cards over my shoulder. I started going there when I was 24. It was one of the best times of my life."
There was a wistfulness in her voice, as well as in the voices of many others who sounded nostalgic for their younger, wilder selves. It was hard to escape the impression that for many in the room, life had rarely been as thrilling since the Surf Club closed in 1990.
"Today, the entire Upper East Side is dead," Mr. Dechert lamented. "There's not only no Surf Club, there isn't even a thriving bar scene." Contemplating the vaguely Art Deco dance floor of Decade, which also has a second-floor restaurant and glass-enclosed humidor, he predicted, "My guess is in a couple of months it'll be a catering hall."
But much of the nostalgia seemed misplaced. For many, the Surf Club's legacy was one of self-destruction.
"That place was cocaine central," Terry McManus, a former doorman who did not attend the reunion, recalled a few days later. "It was nuts, out of control. People who didn't even smoke pot were all of a sudden doing cocaine. I saw a lot of careers go down the drain."
He recalled how "the crowd would separate like the Red Sea" when one Wall Street heavy-hitter would enter with an entourage. But drugs cost him his job, and he ended up driving others to the club in a limousine.
The most prominent casualty was Nick Beavers, the younger brother of Toby and Angus, who once cut a dashing figure at the Surf Club and the nearby Zulu Lounge, a less buttoned-down club that his brothers opened for him to run.
In the late 80's, after repeated visits to the Hazelden clinic in Minnesota, Nick Beavers sobered up and took a job scooping frozen yogurt. He later opened a club in Minneapolis with a juice bar that attracted many fellow Hazelden graduates. Of his old Manhattan life, he told a reporter for The New York Times in 1993, "The drugs were everywhere, and everybody was touched."
Two years later, having fallen off the wagon, he killed himself with an overdose of antidepressants.
Toby Beavers's response to the toll of club life is oddly blithe-spirited.
"The whole thing was just to have fun," he said. "Everything was fun. You can ask anybody who was a casualty: while they were at the club, they were having the time of their life. No one was slumped at the table depressed. It was when they had to go to work the next day and perform that they became casualties."
Independently wealthy, Mr. Beavers never did have to go to work in the morning. Since the Surf Club closed in the wake of the 1987 stock market crash, he has moved with his wife and two children, now 4 and 5, between a family estate in Watch Hill, R.I., a plantation in Louisiana and a farm in Nova Scotia.
He has made some stop-start efforts to capture the Surf Club years on paper, including a screenplay called "Moonlight Memories, or the Rise and Fall of a Party Animal."
"I finished the last words right after I got out of jail in Nova Scotia," he said at dinner.
His wife, Terri, shot him a dirty look. Although there was apparently a visit to a police station after a run-in with a pole while Mr. Beavers was driving while intoxicated, there was never any jail time, husband and wife agreed.
Mr. Beavers has also told his stories into a tape recorder for Michael Shnayerson, a contributing editor of Vanity Fair. The two originally planned a book, but that project is dormant, and Mr. Shnayerson hopes to write a screenplay of his own. "The life of the party" is how Mr. Shnayerson refers to Mr. Beavers.
Mr. McManus, the former doorman, has written his own screenplay about the club and hopes to direct it as a low-budget film. His title: "Existential Vacuum."
Last year Mr. Beavers sold the family's two-story maisonette on 93d Street off Fifth Avenue, where he and his brothers grew up, and where dozens of revelers would congregate after the club closed at 4 A.M., unwilling to go home.
Mr. Beavers still longs to be the life of the party. Past midnight, as the Beatles' "Birthday" pumped from the sound system, a circle opened on the dance floor and he tore into a spirited, loose-limbed solo, a beer bottle raised in one hand.
 
15 Minutes and Counting . . .
 
CLUB -- life may have enjoyed its heyday in other decades, but some places live on, at least in myth. Here's what makes a legend most.
 
STUDIO 54 -- (1977-80, 1982-86): The temple of 70's disco culture, where Bianca and Halston and Liza worshiped.
 
THE MUDD CLUB -- (1978-1983): The TriBeCa hangout that attracted artists and punks and where the all-black fashion craze had its beginnings.
 
THE SAINT -- (1980-1990): A gay disco under a galaxy of twinkling stars, often called the ultimate dance palace.
 
AREA -- (1983-1987): A place to posture. Transformed by local artists into living performance art, with a different decor every month.
 
PALLADIUM -- (1985- ): A cavernous place that is likely to be remembered (along with the Tunnel and Limelight) for the legal troubles of its owner, Peter Gatien, over drug use in his clubs.
 
NELL'S -- (1986- ): As backlash to the superclubs of the 70's and early 80's, Nell's, with a decadent Victorian elegance, introduced the much-imitated idea of an intimate setting.
 
WEBSTER HALL -- (1992- ). Made a case for variety. On different dance floors, everything from disco, jazz and house to reggae and rock-and-roll. May best be remembered by its Cooper Square neighbors, who over the years have engaged in battles with the club over noise.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toby Beavers, above, an owner of the Surf Club, celebrated his 43d birthday with a reunion of Surf regulars at a party, top, at Decade on the Upper East Side. (pg. 49); THE GANG WAS ALL THERE: Celebrating at the Surf Club, 91st Street and York Avenue, during the club's heyday in the 1980's. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SURF CLUB (DEFUNCT); DECADE (CLUB)

ORGANIZATION: SURF CLUB (DEFUNCT); DECADE (CLUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS DRINKING PLACES (90%); SURFING (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); COCAINE (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (65%); FINE JEWELRY (65%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP; BEAVERS, TOBY

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



353 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER WEST SIDE -- UPDATE;
Amid Opposition, Plan for a Columbus Avenue BID Is Postponed

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII 

 BODY:
Under strong opposition from area merchants, sponsors have postponed their effort to form a Columbus Avenue Business Improvement District from 67th to 96th Streets.
Carville Moore, a consultant to the proposed BID, said the sponsors made the decision after Community Board 7's business improvement task force voted to oppose the plan late last month. 
 "There was no point in going through with it," Ms. Moore said. "We need to spend some more time laying the groundwork."
But Ms. Moore said the sponsors, largely landlords and other real-estate owners, hoped to resubmit the plan in the future. They say a BID would bring more business to the avenue.
Since the plan was first presented to the board in January, many merchants have lobbied against it on the ground that a BID could lead to higher commercial rents while forcing them to pay tax assessments for BID services, like private sanitation workers and security guards. They also said they feared that such private services would lead the city to reduce existing services. Instead, they said they wanted to form a merchant association to promote business on the avenue.
Barbara Wolff, assistant commissioner of the Department of Business Services, said her agency would not submit the sponsor's application to the Department of City Planning until it had substantial support from the merchants.
"It isn't something the city is going to force on any community," Ms. Wolff said. "We want to insure that those who are opposed have their concerns addressed before we take the next step." JANE H. LII

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS AVENUE (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LOBBYING (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); TRENDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); CITIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



354 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM/WASHINGTON HEIGHTS;
Debate Over Pathmark Jobs Leads to More Wrangling

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII 

 BODY:
It was supposed to be a moment of triumph for the East Harlem Abyssinian Triangle: the announcement that James A. Smith Contracting of Long Island had been picked to build the Pathmark complex on 125th Street in East Harlem. But no sooner was the announcement made two weeks ago than arguing resumed between the group and community leaders in East Harlem.
The chairman of Community Board 11, Eddie Baca, accused the East Harlem Abyssinian Triangle -- made up of the Abyssinian Development Corporation, the development arm of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, and the Community Association of East Harlem Triangle, a nonprofit housing developer -- of ignoring the community's requests to help set up meetings between local groups and Pathmark over job-training. 
 A spokesman for Abyssinian Development Corporation, Darren Walker, said the East Harlem Abyssinian Triangle wanted to make sure that construction started before dealing with other issues like job-training. "Our highest priority is to get the deal closed," Mr. Walker said. "There will be a 12-month window to move forward on these collateral issues." He said construction of the $15 million, 63,000-square-foot retail project, to include the Pathmark supermarket, a Chase Manhattan Bank branch and other stores, will begin in July and be completed in about 18 months. In 1993 a group of Hispanic developers who had won the right to develop the city-owned plot failed to come up with a solid plan and handed over their rights to the Community Association of East Harlem Triangle. In 1994, the Dinkins administration brought in the Abyssinian Development Corporation, in Central Harlem, as a partner, angering Hispanic community leaders in East Harlem.
In 1995, Mayor Giuliani brokered a deal under which the East Harlem Abyssinian Triangle was allotted 51 percent of the project and the city 49 percent. A spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, Bernadette O'Leary, said the city would transfer its share to East Harlem developers after the complex was built. She also confirmed that the East Harlem Abyssinian Triangle was to help insure that the majority of jobs at the complex go to East Harlem residents.
That deal eased tensions until the death last April of the director of the Community Association of East Harlem Triangle, Alice Kornegay. Many in East Harlem view Ms. Kornegay's successor, Millicent Reddick, as an ally of the Abyssinian Development Corporation, along with the Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, who is running against Mayor Giuliani in this year's mayoral election. Fearful that if Ms. Messinger is elected, she may not honor the agreement, especially given the dearth of developers in East Harlem, Hispanic leaders now want the East Harlem Abyssinian Triangle to set up meetings with Pathmark and begin the job-training process.
Ms. O'Leary said the city is considering moving up the transfer of its stake in the project to sometime after construction begins but before it is finished. JANE H. LII

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Pagan of Community Board 11, which says developers are ignoring local needs. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EAST HARLEM ABYSSINIAN TRIANGLE (ORGN); PATHMARK; SMITH, JAMES A, CONTRACTING JAMES A SMITH CONTRACTING INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EAST HARLEM ABYSSINIAN TRIANGLE (ORGN); PATHMARK; SMITH, JAMES A, CONTRACTING

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); BANK BRANCHES (51%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H; BACA, EDDIE RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



355 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE RACK;
Dissecting Retirement Programs, and Suggesting Surgery

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK 

 BODY:
IF retirement is on your mind, there is plenty to consider in the April batch of personal-finance magazines.
"Saving Social Security," an article by Melynda Dovel Wilcox in Kiplinger's, is a clear and fairly comprehensive look at the ins and outs of Social Security and the problems it faces, which, the article says, aren't as terrible as some politicians are saying. 
 In fact, many experts have said that if nothing is done between now and 2029, when the Social Security trust fund is expected to be "bankrupt," revenue from payroll taxes will still be enough to pay 75 percent of promised benefits. So the trick is figuring out how to make up the other 25 percent.
Kiplinger's endorses a middle-of-the-road plan -- what one economist calls "everyone's second choice" -- promoted by Edward Gramlich, dean of the School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan and chairman of the Advisory Council on Social Security. The plan would create the equivalent of a national 401(k) tax-deferred retirement plan that would work in tandem with Social Security. It would not divert money now flowing into the system, but would be financed with an extra contribution of 1.6 percent of pay. The proposal would then slow the growth of Social Security benefits, mainly for middle- and high-wage workers, but the gap -- in theory -- would be made up by the extra 1.6 percent in contributions.
One complaint about the Kiplinger's article is that it makes no mention of the regressive nature of the Social Security tax. Everyone pays the same rate on annual earnings of up to $65,400 for the current year, but no one pays a cent on earnings above that amount. This means that high-income people are paying the tax on only a portion -- in many cases a small portion -- of their incomes, while middle- and low-income workers are paying the tax on all or most of their earnings. What about raising the cutoff point instead of the rate?

401(k) WOES Money magazine, in an article by Penelope Wang, contends that "excessive" and often "hidden" fees on some 401(k) plans are cheating American workers out of an estimated $1.5 billion a year. Some of these fees, Money says, are up to seven times as high as charges by moderately priced mutual funds or institutional investment managers. The magazine says a typical 35-year-old worker who participated in a high-cost plan for 30 years would retire with 25 percent less than he or she would have collected under a low-cost plan -- a shortfall estimated to average $244,000.
Many companies, Money continues, fail to protect employees' interests, and some small businesses are barely better informed about 401(k) costs than their workers are. The magazine advises that you find out the cost of your 401(k) plan and pressure your employer to minimize fees, even if it means switching plans.

MEDICARE PITFALLS The April-May issue of Your Money has some practical advice for dealing with Medicare and so-called Medigap insurance. This is a case in which the devil is in the details, and what you don't know can prove disastrous.

HOME ALONE Two magazines, Money and PC World, have jointly ranked the best areas for telecommuters. The rankings are based on factors like Internet access and the number of computer-supply stores and copy centers, as well as the economic, educational, cultural and social scenes.
Over all, the top 10 places are San Francisco; San Jose, Calif.; Los Angeles; San Diego; Seattle; Oakland, Calif.; Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla.; Orange County, Calif.; Boston, and Atlanta.
The top 10 midsize areas are Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill, N.C.; Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla.; West Palm Beach, Fla.; Santa Barbara, Calif.; Jacksonville, Fla.; Austin, Tex.; Brevard County, Fla.; Ventura, Calif.; Fort Myers-Cape Coral, Fla., and Madison, Wis.
Ranked highest among small areas are Manchester, N.H.; Gainesville, Fla.; Nashua, N.H.; Bryan-College Station, Tex.; Naples, Fla.; Boulder, Colo.; San Luis Obispo, Calif.; Portsmouth, N.H.; Santa Cruz, Calif., and Olympia, Wash.

HAPPY BIRTHDAY Smart Money is five years old and celebrates with a follow-up on 10 stocks for the 90's that it recommended in 1992. They have done well. The top pick, Applied Materials, has increased twelvefold; the laggard, La-Z-Boy, is up 38 percent.
 
BITS AND PIECES Financial World expects Congress to reduce estate taxes by the end of the year. . . . Individual Investor takes a look at some companies whose earnings have beaten Wall Street estimates, but fails to mention that write-offs in some cases have been inflating earnings growth. . . . Smart Money has several good articles for the business traveler, including rankings of airlines and hotels. . . . Maybe it's premature spring fever, but many magazines and newspapers, including this one, are featuring babies on their covers and display pages; will puppies be next?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIPLINGER'S PERSONAL FINANCE (MAGAZINE); MONEY (MAGAZINE) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIPLINGER'S PERSONAL FINANCE (MAGAZINE); MONEY (MAGAZINE) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCES; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



356 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
New Vehicle for Black Investors

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
There is a fund for women, a fund for gay investors and a fund for Muslims. Why, then, not a fund for African-Americans?
So says Key Asset Management, a subsidiary of Keycorp, and Lakefront Capital Investors, an investment advisory firm in Cleveland. 
 Together, the companies are offering the Victory Lakefront fund, which will be marketed through retirement plans, brokerage firms and banks, as well as through black churches and professional and social organizations. Lakefront, which is owned by African-Americans, acts as the fund manager in what is its first product for the retail market.
The fund aims for long-term capital growth by investing primarily in a diversified group of stocks with an emphasis on financially strong companies whose stocks are considered undervalued. Among the companies held by the fund are American Express, Eastman Kodak, Ford Motor, General Electric and Texas Instruments.
Unlike funds in the "socially responsible" category, Victory Lakefront will not evaluate companies' historical records on diversity. Instead, it says it will promote the benefits of diversity after investing in a company. The fund's initial sales charge is 4.75 percent.
 
Catholic Values Fund
Funds that are aimed at groups with specific beliefs have long been the core of the socially responsible field.
Now there is a fund for Roman Catholics that will strictly avoid investments in companies that are involved in birth control or abortion or that abuse human rights.
The Catholic Values Investment Trust, which opened on Friday, is being managed by a Catholic, Walter Miller, who is the executive director of Wright Investors' Service in Bridgeport, Conn.
The no-load fund will look for stocks that sell at low prices and that have above-average growth prospects. To weed out problem companies, an advisory board including former ambassadors to the Vatican will examine the list of potential investments.
 
New Manager
Shelby M. C. Davis, founder and chief executive officer of Davis Selected Advisers, has turned over full management of Davis New York Venture and Selected American Shares to his son, Christopher C. Davis, who had served as co-manager of the funds for two years. The elder Mr. Davis becomes the chief investment officer of the firm.
 
New Funds
Delaware Quantum and Delaware Blue Chip use computer models to analyze fundamental characteristics of more than 1,200 United States companies daily; Quantum invests in stocks that pass certain "socially responsible" tests, and Blue Chip invests in companies with market capitalizations of $2.5 billion or more. The minimum initial sales charge for each fund is 4.75 percent.
59 Wall Street Short/Intermediate Fixed Income was renamed 59 Wall Street Inflation-Indexed Securities and its investment mandate was changed to focus primarily on inflation-indexed securities from the United States Treasury and other issuers.

In Brief
John Hancock Regional Bank closed to new investors on Wednesday with $5.3 billion in assets.
Invesco Small Company has been renamed Invesco Small Company Value.
 The cap on expenses for the Stein Roe Young Investor fund was increased to 1.5 percent of assets, from 1.25 percent, its level since the fund's inception in April 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (58%); IVZ (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); TXN (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HOLY SEE (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: KEY ASSET MANGEMENT; LAKEFRONT CAPITAL INVESTORS; VICTORY LAKEFRONT FUND; CATHOLIC VALUES INVESTMENT TRUST; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH KEYCORP (58%); INVESCO LTD (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (56%); WRIGHT INVESTORS' SERVICE HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KEY ASSET MANGEMENT; LAKEFRONT CAPITAL INVESTORS; VICTORY LAKEFRONT FUND; CATHOLIC VALUES INVESTMENT TRUST; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HOLY SEE (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BLACKS RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); ETHICAL INVESTING (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



357 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Bravery Is Paying Off For Investors in Russia

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
FOR a lesson on investing risk and reward, Russia reads like a textbook.
Not long ago, the newly capitalist country was being billed as the chanciest place to invest on the planet, with stock market rules as difficult for outsiders to decipher as Cyrillic script. Though that may be, the Russian market has also turned out to be the world's most rewarding in recent months. The country's primary stock index -- the R.T.S., for Russia Trading System -- has risen 66 percent this year. Last year, it gained 156 percent in dollar terms. 
 The only open-end mutual fund for United States investors that is dedicated to the three-year-old Russian market, the Lexington Troika Dialog Russia fund, in Saddle Brook, N.J., has done almost as well. It has gained 50.5 percent this year and a total of 70 percent since its inception last July 3, which was, by happenstance, the day of the Russian elections.
"We felt, at that point, that regardless of who won, a lot of the reforms had begun to take seed and were on that path," said Richard (Mac) Hisey, the fund manager.
For the 12 months ended March 7, the market price of Templeton Russia, a closed-end fund begun 21 months ago by J. Mark Mobius, the legendary steel-stomached guru of emerging markets, had soared 174 percent. It is trading at a premium of about 7 percent over the underlying value of its holdings. The other closed-end Russia fund available on the New York Stock Exchange, Morgan Stanley Russia and New Europe, has gained 25 percent since its inception last September, and is trading at about a 10 percent discount to its net asset value.
Investors should keep in mind that booms like Russia's are often followed by correspondingly significant busts. Remember the collapse of emerging-market debt in late 1994 and the crash of the Thailand stock market last year?
Mr. Hisey concedes that his Lexington Troika fund is best suited to those who can stomach fluctuations. "When we launched the fund, the market had been up 20 to 30 percent just before, and the fund immediately declined by about 40 percent over the next three months," said Mr. Hisey, who speaks Russian and attended the University of Leningrad, among other colleges. "You can well see 40 or 50 percent corrections."
IN recent weeks, the Russian market has been mostly flat, in part because of profit-taking after its incredible run and also because of continuing concerns about the health of President Boris N. Yeltsin and the uncertainty about who will succeed him. Mr. Yeltsin's decision to oust his cabinet on Tuesday, though, prompted an immediate 3 percent market gain on hopes of more economic change in Russia.
The political risk of such transitions is strong indeed. When Mr. Yeltsin hiccups, the Russian stock market reacts, even faster than Wall Street dances to the utterances of Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Information on corporate operations in Russia is also far from complete. James Libera, editor of Libera's Closed-End Country Fund Report, said the rules on corporate disclosure and accounting standards were not up to Western standards.
"There has been a mania going on," Mr. Libera said. The surge in Russian stock prices has been fueled, in large part, by hedge funds and other offshore investment vehicles. "It's like a momentum play," he said, meaning that prices inevitably rise as money pours in faster and faster. "When you have a small, illiquid market like Russia, it doesn't take much to drive it up."
According to the World Bank, 2.3 percent of the international funds available for investment were going to Russia as of last month, about half as much as flows into the market of Hong Kong, an established global financial center.
THE stock market's capitalization, based on its broadest measure, the Moscow Times index, is $64 billion, said Mr. Hisey of Lexington Troika. By comparison, Hong Kong's market had a capitalization of more than $400 billion at the beginning of this year.
Mr. Hisey likened Russia today to the United States after its revolution more than 200 years ago. "Long-term, it is going to be a very powerful economy," he said. "But it will take decades to get there.
"It is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of natural resources -- one company alone, Gazprom, has a third of the world's natural gas reserves. It also has a highly educated population that is low-paid by world standards."
Even after the recent run-up, there are many bargains, Mr. Hisey said. For example, Unified Energy Systems has risen 160 percent this year in Russia but is still trading at just 2.5 times earnings. (By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500 is trading at nearly 21 times earnings.)
Unified Energy is in talks aimed at becoming the ninth Russian company to offer American depository receipts for trading in the United States. Several other companies are expected to win approval this year.
In early 1996, foreign investors eager to get into Russia had little choice but to use hedge funds and offshore funds. That meant the market was really open only to the affluent. Now, money is flowing in through emerging-market funds, pension funds and others. For example, the State of Wisconsin Investment Board reported in January that its stake in the Templeton Russia fund was 460,000 shares, making it the largest shareholder, with a stake of 8.7 percent.
Despite such votes of confidence, Russia's long road to change will be paved with abundant bumps and potholes. Even the country's biggest boosters are wary.
"Companies there have a lot of restructuring to do, even the ones that are publicly traded," Mr. Hisey said. "There are a lot that should be bankrupt."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Bullish Bear"
Year-to-date gains, in dollar terms, of some of the leading stock markets in the world and of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 
Russia*: 66.0%
Taiwan: 19.3%
South Africa**: 13.8%
Mexico: 11.3%
S.&P. 500: 7.1%
 
*Russia Trading System index
**Johannesburg All Market index.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (59%); 

COMPANY: LEXINGTON TROIKA DIALOG RUSSIA FUND CJSC TROIKA DIALOG (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEXINGTON TROIKA DIALOG RUSSIA FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (52%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); COUNTRY RISK (69%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; HISEY, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



358 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Vulgarians on the Floor of the House (Where Else?)

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
YOU'RE a %@##!
Members of the House of Representatives love to talk and talk, but usually not in a blue streak. The very salutations lawmakers use -- addressing their vilest enemy as the "gentle lady from Virginia" or "my friend, the distinguished gentleman from North Dakota" -- are intended to insure comity and cloak contempt in the spirited partisan brawls.  
 But a new report from the University of Pennsylvania paints a disheartening picture of the state of polite discourse in the House.
Researchers have compiled a Vulgarity Index that counts the name calling and vulgarities uttered on the House floor since 1985. Words like damn, whore, stupid, weirdo, nerd, bozo, idiot, fatso, scum, nitwit and several more that are unprintable in this newspaper. Last week, as budget talks broke off, and the glow faded from a weekend retreat of nearly 200 House Republicans and Democrats, partisan sniping began anew.
Where there's a study there's a theory.
"It's a sign of a general coarsening of our culture," said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the University of Pennsylvania's Annenberg School for Communications, which prepared the report, titled "Civility in the House of Representatives."
"Things we used to say in private we now say in public," Ms. Jamieson said. "Congress may simply be reflecting a social norm."
The good news is, this foul-mouthed fever doesn't seem to be getting any worse over time. The bad news is, it's not necessarily getting any better. The amount of vulgarity the researchers culled from the Congressional Record ranged from 926 dirty words blurted out on the House floor in the 101st Congress (1989 to 1990) to a high of 1,076 no-no's hurled in the 102d Congress (1991 to 1992). The infamously acrimonious 104th Congress (1995 to 1996), led by Speaker Newt Gingrich, was closer to the low end of the scale, with 943 bad words. The researchers prepared their report for the House's bipartisan retreat; they did not study the discourse of the much courtlier Senate.
Have Philistines seized the House floor? Well, not exactly. Most of the bad things that House members had to say were directed at things or situations, rather than at other people, with a few notable exceptions.
Tops on the list during the last Congress were "hell" (355 times) and "stupid" (344 times). But there was a disturbing uptick in the use of "scum" (from 4 times in the 103d Congress to 23 times in the 104th).
"The most common references for scum were to people in the drug trade, Communists and people who burn flags (flag burners also were commonly referred to as weirdos)," the report said. "Scum was used almost exclusively to describe people: vivisectors, ninjas, Sandinista friends, people who get the death penalty, looters, Trudeau's comic strip, violent criminals, Jews (in reference to anti-Jewish sentiment during the Gulf War), skinheads and pornographers."
 
Most Asinine Speech
 Members still had the decency not to call each other names -- at least not publicly on the House floor, a violations of House rules. Some, though, came close. During an Aug. 2, 1991, debate, then New York Representative Thomas J. Downey, a Democrat, accused Republicans of cutting unemployment benefits for poor people.
Representative Dick Armey, Republican of Texas, immediately jumped up. "I was on my way off the floor," he said, "when I heard what has to be the silliest, most asinine speech I have heard on the floor in the seven years I have been here."
Mr. Downey's fast retort? Mr. Armey obviously hadn't been listening to some of his own speeches.
One of Congress's worst offenders, Robert K. Dornan of California, a Republican formerly of the House, impugned President Clinton's masculinity and courage in January 1995, calling him "a flawed human being" and a "draft-dodging adulterer not fit to lace the boots" of the military men and women he commands. The House banned him from the floor for a day.
Some House members invoked the vulgarities of others. George Bush's claim that America was going to kick a certain part of Saddam Hussein's anatomy , got a lot of mileage, especially from Republicans.
At other times, members tried to sound erudite. From Charles Dickens's "Oliver Twist," some members drew a claim that "If the law supposes that, then the law is an ass -- an idiot." The report concluded that "through quotation, members distance themselves from the vulgarity while legitimizing its use."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MANNERS AND CUSTOMS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); TRENDS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); 

PERSON: JAMIESON, KATHLEEN HALL (PROF); SCHMITT, ERIC NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



359 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

THE BUDGET
Here We Go Again
So much for bipartisan hugs and kisses. (And don't count on that National Gallery visit.) The White House and Congressional Republicans are deadlocked, again, on a Federal budget. What is it now? Last week President Clinton shied away from tinkering with the cost-of-living formula for calculating Social Security benefits, and Senator Trent Lott, the Republican leader, said Mr. Clinton lacked the courage to reap the billions that such tinkering would save. But Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, said the Republicans were "afraid to even reveal their game.".
 
MARKET WATCHING
Whose Dow Is It, Exactly?
The Dow Jones industrial average. The mighty Dow. The tireless Dow. When you hear about this mythic beast -- its epic milestones, its thundering rallies -- you'd think it was a sacred list handed down, since the dawn of time, with biblical reverence. Hardly. It's a bunch of stocks that can be changed at will by The Wall Street Journal's editors. And last week they juggled the mix again, dropping four and adding four. The goal: to give a good current snapshot of the economy. So the reality is that when people speak with solemn exactness about this cosmic number, on whose every twitch and grunt the investing world hangs, they are simply talking about the tossed salad du jour.
 
STOCK SCAMS
Morality, American-Style
The head of a small Manhattan brokerage house, Federal officials say, took a $100,000 bribe to sell his customers worthless stock and then told some of his employees, who are immigrants, that if the S.E.C. asked any questions, "say you don't recall -- that's how it's done in America." Federal officials didn't share this philosophy, and last week arrested the broker, Philip John Milligan.
COLLECTIBLES
Jurassic Blue Jeans
And you thought your old jeans were priceless. Ha! Sure, they're at their glorious prime -- no longer stiff, not quite falling apart -- but they can't even rub rivets with the true faded-denim elite. Levi Strauss recently paid $25,000 for a century-old pair, one of the two oldest around, it says, and a vital piece of its history. In case you didn't know it, there's even a bit of archeology in jeans-dating: this pair has a leather waist patch (added in 1886) and a single back pocket (a second was added in 1902). The lawyer who delivered the jeans to Levi's in San Francisco last week was told to put them in a briefcase and handcuff it to his wrist. He could have just put them on, of course, but presumably he had something newer to wear.
 
ARBITRATION
Recourse, Limited
Much as we ridicule lawyers, it's comforting to know that if some deal or professional relationship goes sour, we can, if all else fails, sue. Knowing this possibility is a cozy, very American security blanket. Don't look now, but that blanket's being pulled away. Mortgage companies, health plans and real estate agents have been slipping arbitration agreements into the fine print. If there's a dispute, a referee decides. Period. You didn't agree, you say? Forget it. In this harmonious new world, to receive a piece of paper is to agree. Better check that jumble of notices that surround those bills and statements.
 
GROSS INCOME
G.E. Brings Raises to Life
You might think that with unemployment low and job growth strong, workers would have the bargaining power to get raises worthy of the name. Think again. A Federal Reserve survey shows that, in general, wages are rising only modestly. One wonders, though, if the Fed talked to John F. Welch Jr., the chairman of General Electric. For even in these pinch-penny times, Mr. Welch managed to get an increase in his total pay -- complete with stock options and other goodies that such lofty souls get -- to $30 million, from $22.5 million. But Jack Welch, as Fitzgerald said, is different from you and me. He's the boss.
 
TRAVEL
Fly Now, Pay Plenty
What is it about air travel? When you get on a bus, the driver doesn't say, "Well, if you'd let me know two weeks ago, it would be a dollar; today it's $4.75." When you buy a hot dog, the vendor doesn't triple the price because you didn't plan your snacking last month. But fly at the last minute? Forget it. You may have to take out a mortgage. Yes, advance-purchase fares are up somewhat. But "walk-up" fares have nearly doubled in five years, with the average round trip at $820 and climbing fast. Why? Fancy computers tracking reservations, perhaps, or tighter reins on the number of seats. What it comes down to, though, is that business travelers will pay those prices.
 
PROMOTIONS
Want a Pub? Here's How
If tomorrow's festivities leave you for pining for Ireland, and if you're in a poetic frame of mind, jot this down: "As the cool, creamy head of a pint of Guinness settles . . . " Finish that, in 50 words or less, and you could win this pub in County Tipperary. (Details: 1-888-4AGUINNESS.) If you're feeling poetic but don't want an Irish pub, write 50 words about a glass of water.

GRAPHIC: Photos. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Fly Now, Pay Plenty" shows the average one-way fares on 215 routes among 40 major United States cities. (Source: American Express)
 
Drawing. (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); COST OF LIVING (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); RELIGION (68%); BRIBERY (64%); LAWYERS (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); TOM DASCHLE (72%); TRENT LOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



360 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Better Schools, Uncertain Returns

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
FROM the dire warnings of educational and national decline in the "Nation at Risk" report in 1983 to President Clinton's full-court press on education as the key to national prosperity, the direct link between schooling and the economy has become part of the conventional wisdom of American education.
Education Secretary Richard W. Riley put it bluntly in his State of American Education Address last month: "Education is the engine that drives our economy." And as the earnings gap between brains and brawn grows ever larger, almost no one doubts the link between education and an individual's economic prospects. 
 But many educators and economists are increasingly skeptical of the notion that better schools mean a more prosperous nation. And as Mr. Clinton's education agenda makes its way through Congress -- he promised that education would be the No. 1 priority of his second term -- some wonder if overemphasis on the link between schools and jobs can tilt the public's view of education to an unhealthy degree -- expecting too much in building the economy and not enough in developing intellects and personalities and ultimately citizens.
 
Fear of Decline
 As for its economic effects, "I'm stunned by how unexamined that claim is," said Mike Rose, an education professor at the University of California at Los Angeles. "If you look at 100 years of industrial history, there's nothing close to the one-to-one link between education and the economy that we assume today. I think the way we think about education is terribly constrained by the assumption that we're in trouble, that we're in decline, and that the decline is intimately, causally linked to what's wrong with education."
Mr. Rose, the author of "Possible Lives: The Promise of Public Education in America" (Houghton Mifflin, 1995), is quick to add that he believes that upgrading the skills and knowledge of America's children is closely linked to their economic prospects. And it is clear that the current focus on education reflects changes in the workplace that make education a more critical component of an individual's economic success than it was in the past.
Frank Levy, a professor of urban economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the author, with Richard Murnane, of "Teaching the New Basic Skills" (Free Press, 1996), notes that in 1979, a 30-year-old man with a high school diploma earned a yearly average of $27,700 in 1993 dollars. By 1993 a high school graduate was only earning $20,000.
Fifteen years ago, the typical worker with a college degree made 38 percent more than a worker with a high school diploma. Today, the typical college-educated worker makes 73 percent more.
But what holds true for individuals does not necessarily make a metaphor for the nation as a whole, most experts say.
"There is a relationship in how education helps individuals increase their skills and then helps these individuals get jobs," said Larry Cuban, an education professor at Stanford University. "But there's also a false kind of connection about how lower productivity in the economy, particularly in the late 70's and 80's, was somehow related to lower productivity in the schools."
The skeptics often start with the Reagan Administration's apocalyptic "A Nation at Risk" report, which said the nation has been "committing an act of unthinking, unilateral educational disarmament" that was putting its very future at risk.
But almost a decade and a half later, the nation's economy is performing, by many measures, extraordinarily well. In fact, it is dramatically outperforming Japan and Germany, often cited as countries with educational systems that the United States should be emulating.
 
Remembering Sputnik
 Given that no one claims a sudden, dramatic increase in the quality of American education, critics of the report say that either the nation's schools are not as dismal as the "Nation at Risk" report indicated or the link between education and the economy is far more complicated than the conventional wisdom has it.
That wisdom is not entirely new.
"Same thing with Sputnik in 1957," said Richard Gibboney, an education professor at the University of Pennsylvania. "The Russians put a spaceship into orbit and instantly Mrs. Jones in the third grade was blamed for our presumed scientific lag in technology."
Most experts say corporate decisions, the economic aspects of the national culture, the vagaries of the business cycle and numerous other factors play a far greater role than education in the nation's economic success.
"The link between education and the national economy is pretty tenuous in all but the grossest sense -- say the difference between developed and undeveloped countries," said Peter Cappelli, co-director of the National Center on the Educational Quality of the Workforce at the University of Pennsylvania. "Could you improve the economy by dramatically ratcheting up its average education level? Other than dropping a lot of Ph.D.'s on Rwanda, it's a very complicated argument."
Given the limitations of education as an agent of economic progress, some experts say linking education too closely with the economy could engender false economic expectations at the same time it devalues many of the broader elements of schooling.
"Education does many things, from teaching kids how to read to teaching ethics and responsibility," said Mr. Gibboney. "If you focus too much on the economy, you squeeze out some of those other values. When businessmen get into the educational business, and they are focusing on the kind of workers they need, the curriculum becomes narrow, technical, de-liberal."
Still, if education alone can't guarantee national prosperity, the lack of it almost guarantees, for any one child, economic failure.
"It takes lots of things to get the train going," said Mr. Levy of M.I.T. "But the real question is who will be on the train? If you don't have a reasonable education, the chance of earning a decent salary today is very, very small."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning for education, Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, background, at Garrison Elementary in Washington last month. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (62%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TRENDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; ROSE, MIKE (PROF) BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



361 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Measuring Inflation: Can't Do It, Can't Stop Trying

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE votes are in and, not surprisingly, they are unanimous: the Consumer Price Index fails to measure inflation accurately. For many economists, fixing the problem is a technical matter, and they argue over the degree of inaccuracy and how to fix it.
But what if the problem isn't technical at all? What if it's social? What if Americans have grown so heterogeneous -- so separated by incomes, life-styles, what they purchase and where they shop -- that no single cost of living index, no matter how carefully honed, can measure inflation accurately? 
 A commission of economists named for its chairman, Michael J. Boskin of Stanford University, opened that Pandora's box last December when it reported to Congress that the Consumer Price Index greatly exaggerated the actual inflation rate. But intruding in the debate over whether the commission is right is a different concern, one that has long lurked in the background: If a single index cannot accurately capture the American experience, then maybe the whole complex system of using only one index to adjust Social Security benefits and other Federal outlays should be dismantled.
That may be the intellectually honest thing to do, but it is not likely to happen. The Consumer Price Index, which measures the changing cost of a basket of goods and services purchased by an "average" American household, has become as much a political tool as it is an economic yardstick. It has been used increasingly to adjust not only Social Security but payments to the poor, income tax deductions, military pensions and other Federal outlays. As inflation rises, so do they, automatically.
 
An Easy Out
 Without the crutch of the C.P.I., the Administration and Congress would have to decide, on their own, how to to divvy up the Government pie. Restrain military pensions? Imagine the uproar. Cut back annual increases in Social Security pensions? Congress would have to take a vote. No wonder, when the Boskin Commission said that the C.P.I. overstates inflation by 1.1 percentage points -- a considerable amount -- the White House and many in Congress embraced the finding, ignoring growing evidence that the commission's views were faulty. The politicians saw an easy way to cut the budget. Shrink the C.P.I. and, presto, billions in Federal outlays also shrink. The Clinton Administration even considered appointing still another commission that would actually adjust the C.P.I. downward, but shelved that idea last week as politically too dangerous.
"If they want to cut entitlements, just do it," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. "Don't pretend that a statistically pure C.P.I. exists."
The problem with the current system is that a single index probably fails to represent the inflation experiences of most Americans. At a recent Senate hearing, Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, said as much, questioning whether his cost of living, as he edges into old age, could be meaningfully averaged with those of his children as they buy homes and start families. The Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, testing a separate C.P.I. for the elderly, found inflation rising faster for this group than the national index suggests; the elderly spend heavily on health care, whose costs are rising.
"If you want to talk about cost of living," said Robert Pollak, an economist at Washington University, "you have to face up to the question of whose cost of living you are measuring." But producing several C.P.I.'s simultaneously would be expensive and impractical. Which groups would be measured? One index, presumably, would be for the elderly. Social Security pensions would then be pegged to this C.P.I. But there are rich and poor elderly, and each group might have different experiences with inflation.
The Bureau constructs its national C.P.I. from a survey of the expenditures of 5,000 households from all strata of society. As part of the process, the Bureau measures price changes for the merchandise these families tend to purchase, at the stores they seem to frequent. The procedure tries to determine how much more people have to pay to maintain their standard of living. But it is skewed toward measuring the inflation experiences of the biggest spenders -- the rich, younger families -- because the Bureau bases its calculations on total outlays for each type of merchandise, not outlays per household.
Multiple C.P.I.'s -- for the elderly, poor and other groups with their own spending patterns -- would mean surveying several thousand people for each new index, an expense Congress has resisted. So the Bureau, in trying since 1983 to simulate an index for the elderly, at Congress's request, used the survey at hand, altering only the "weights." But that approach is inconclusive.
The elderly, for example, might be buying polyester pants at neighborhood stores where polyester prices are falling while young people might be traveling to malls to buy jeans that are rising in price. These are two different cost of living experiences. The Bureau survey, however, does not break down these purchases by age groups. It assumes that the elderly and the young buy the same mix of jeans and polyester. The Bureau's experimental index for the elderly only changes the weighting, giving less importance to pants prices if those purchases represent only a small portion of the elderly's total spending.
 
Avoiding Risk
 Given these unknowns, the Bureau of Labor Statistics might find, if it surveyed the elderly separately, that a new C.P.I. based on this survey rose more slowly than its current experimental index. Recognizing this possibility, the American Association of Retired Persons recently gave up its demand for a separate elderly index; now it lobbies instead against cutting the existing C.P.I.
The Boskin Commission, and many in the Administration and in Congress, are determined to maintain a single index as the guidepost for adjusting Federal payments. They insist that, over the long run, nearly everyone experiences roughly the same inflation rate, even with different purchases. "You have to start with the assumption of an average American," said Zvi Griliches, a Boskin Commission member.
Economists are just beginning to test, and challenge, that assumption. Ariel Pakes of Yale, for example, found that large cars, favored by large families, and expensive cars, favored by the wealthy, have risen much more rapidly in price than smaller or less expensive cars. Such findings undercut the concept of an average American, but they would also complicate construction of separate indexes. Should large families constitute a separate C.P.I. group?
These concerns remained in the background through the early 1970's, when the representative family was a much less challenged concept, and the C.P.I. was not so important in adjusting Federal outlays. "There have always been doubts," said Alan Krueger, a Princeton University economist, "but there was a kind of social compact that made the single C.P.I. acceptable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diane Belaguer of the Bureau of Labor Statistics checking prices in a discount drug store in 1995 for the Consumer Price Index. (Harvey Finkle/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (60%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATISTICS (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (62%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ROBERT BENNETT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



362 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Planes and Nuclear Plants;
Why Safety Is Not Always So Public

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IMAGINE two Government agencies, each responsible for insuring the safety of industries the public regards with more than a touch of dread. Each is financed by the industry it regulates, and each is staffed mostly by veterans of the kinds of operations they now inspect and evaluate.
Each says its industry is safe and each believes that the public doesn't understand the complex array of safety issues anyway. But one seldom says anything in public about the companies it regulates, and the other issues regular report cards. Why? 
 This is not a hypothetical. The agencies are the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which regulates nuclear power plants, and the Federal Aviation Administration, which oversees airlines.
The F.A.A. makes few announcements about airline safety lapses. Outside of giving some details of minor mishaps, it says little; if a crash occurs, the agency says nothing. Full disclosure might frighten people needlessly, it believes.
The N.R.C. goes as far as publishing lists of workaday mishaps (like a worker falling off a ladder). It monitors trends of minor events and publishes these findings in the conviction that problems resulting in no injuries and no damage can indicate management flaws affecting safety.
The approaches are so different that it is hard to believe they come from the same Government. But the differences may illustrate how commerce, safety and public information come into play: the more difference an industry makes in a day-to-day commercial sense, the less the public will find out from Government about safety.
Not that the Government is silent about the airlines. For years anybody with a Web browser has been able to compare the risk, airline by airline, of lost bags or a late plane.
But unlike the F.A.A., the Nuclear Regulatory Commission publishes an assessment of each of the 109 power reactors it licenses and twice a year it identifies the worst reactors and the utility companies with management problems.
In January, on a day when the N.R.C. was giving one of its semiannual briefings on the problems among the companies it regulates, the F.A.A. announced that it was opening up -- sort of. The agency said it would begin reporting big fines that it formerly kept quiet. On Friday the F.A.A. announced that it was proposing to fine Alaska Airlines more than half a million dollars for improperly modifying a landing gear. It will put details of airline mishaps on the Web rather than making them available only by Freedom of Information Act requests. But the safety information will not be as useful for comparison as the lost-bag statistics, officials warned, because the agency will not rank the airlines or identify problem ones unless it actually shuts them down.
The F.A.A. has never grounded a major airline and seldom chastises them publicly. On the other hand, the N.R.C. expressed doubts last month about the operating practices of the nation's biggest private operator of nuclear plants, Commonwealth Edison in Illinois; one of the biggest, Northeast Utilities in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, has had most of its reactors on the Commission's list of problem children for months.
Like a conscientious teacher, the N.R.C. compares each reactor's performance, good and bad, to how it did in the previous 18-month marking period. But to the F.A.A., all comparisons are odious; it has seldom said anything about airline performance. It did, though, after the Valujet crash last May because a memo that it prepared for Federico Pena, then Transportation Secretary, showing number of accidents per 100,000 departures, leaked out. So why the contrast?
Until the end of the last fiscal year, when the law changed, the agency both regulated aviation and promoted it. "The F.A.A. willingly embraces the dual mandate," said Sandra Allen, who was assistant administrator of the F.A.A. for public affairs until the middle of last year.
"The N.R.C. has solely and exclusively regulatory authority," said Ms. Allen, who is a spokesperson for Commonwealth Edison. The N.R.C., which was created 20 years ago in the breakup of the old Atomic Energy Commission, formerly promoted nuclear energy. That responsibility went to a separate agency now called the Department of Energy.
Among the lay critics of the N.R.C. -- a group far more numerous than that criticizing the F.A.A. -- many would disagree with Ms. Allen. They accuse the N.R.C. of coddling the nuclear industry. But at least it uses the stick of public approbation on its charges.
Donald Engen, who has a foot in both camps, argues that the F.A.A. cannot use that stick. Mr. Engen, who was F.A.A. administrator from 1984 to 1987, later became a nuclear consultant.
"If you said American Airlines was number 7 of 10, my God, that would really be an economic hammer," Mr. Engen said. No one chooses one utility over another based on the N.R.C.'s performance rating, he said. (With the exception of stock and bond analysts, his statement is true.)
"When it's you sitting in an airplane, you view that as your life," he said. "It's more fraught with immediacy, and people conjure up the hazard. But you don't think about throwing the on-off switch on the nuclear power plant that might be in the next state."
But the difference extends to within the industries, too. Mr. Engen became a consultant to the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations, a group of utilities that seeks to improve troubled companies and clone "best practices" from one company to another.
It has no parallel in aviation. Mr. Engen, now director of the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum, said, "You don't really go to Company B, C and D and say, 'Company A has got a problem.' I don't know why, but you don't find people in the aviation business talking as openly as you do in the nuclear power industry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A nuclear generating station at Limerick, Pa. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION; FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (90%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION; FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (90%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



363 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The H.M.O. Catch;
When Healthier Isn't Cheaper

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
"Investing in preventive care is a cornerstone of our business because of the tremendous returns it provides. . . . It keeps health care costs low by preventing serious illness and promoting a healthy lifestyle."
-- U.S. Healthcare annual report
"PREVENTION saves money" has become a refrain of managed care, repeated in ads and by H.M.O. executives so often that it has taken on the aura of truth. 
 This wisdom, the industry's version of "a stitch in time saves nine," is backed by a certain logic: if managed care plans detect illness early and offer good preventive care, patients will remain healthier and will be cheaper to care for in the long term.
Presto! Health and profits are in perfect alignment. Patients get benefits like free immunizations and mammograms, even subsidized health-club memberships. H.M.O.'s, which care for patients for a fixed yearly fee, will incur fewer bills.
There is only one hitch: While studies have shown that preventive care is generally good for your health, they have also shown that it often does not save money.
The central problem is that the early detection of many diseases, like high cholesterol and H.I.V. infection, is often followed by a lifetime of costly treatments and drugs. Expensive hospitalizations may only be forestalled. So in many cases, total medical costs actually rise.
"An awful lot of preventive care has no payoff economically -- it actually costs money," said Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University. "If the plans are doing it, they're doing it because they think it gives them a good image. A lot of this stuff is overhyped."
To their credit, H.M.O.'s cover more "wellness care" than traditional insurance does -- and marketing departments know that even a small package of preventive services is a big draw. But health experts say consumers should not rest assured that the self-interest of the H.M.O.'s will lead them to provide top-notch early detection and prevention programs. As legislators around the country who are increasingly scrutinizing and regulating the H.M.O.'s have found, it does not.
What's more, even in situations where good preventive care might save money in the long run, H.M.O.'s often have little incentive to act, since patients tend to change health plans every few years.
"If I run a commercial H.M.O. with Wall Street breathing down my neck and there is an intervention that costs me now but will save me money in 10 years, I won't do it," Dr. Reinhardt said. "Or I might do it if it wasn't too expensive and I could parlay it into a perception of quality."
 
Delayed Benefits
 For example, studies have shown that diagnosing and treating high cholesterol in adults will ward off heart attacks and strokes as those patients age. But standard drug treatments for high cholesterol cost more than $1,000 a year, and the big benefits do not accrue for well over a decade.
"If you are a company looking at what gives you a return on your investment, immunizations certainly have a payoff, and smoking cessation in pregnant women is probably also a slam dunk," said Dr. David Plocher, a partner at Ernst and Young, the consulting firm. "But beyond that, our conversation is over. That's it."
Many H.M.O. executives insist that the payoff of a well-designed prevention program is higher.
Studies at Group Health of Puget Sound, an H.M.O. in Seattle, found that smoking cessation programs and mammography screening could be cost-effective, particularly when targeted at the groups most likely to benefit. Dr. Neal Sofian, an expert in preventive medicine who was until recently at Group Health, said great cost savings could be realized if a diabetic smoker could be made to quit, since such patients have astronomical rates of strokes and heart disease.
But even within the managed care companies, many advocates of prevention programs acknowledge that the financial benefits are overrated.
"I've been trying to promote prevention for years," said Dr. Robert G. Harmon, the medical director of prevention plans at United Health Care, which owns 45 H.M.O.'s nationwide. "But we really have to be specific that in some cases it costs more that it saves."
Still, Dr. Harmon said managed care plans considered these services a "good investment that we should be making" because of the health benefits to patients. He added that the company's market research had shown that prevention programs were very important to subscribers.
Dr. Sofian said many valuable preventive services could never be justified on the basis of cost, and he was chagrined that some health care providers think about them in these terms. "You don't hear people asking about the cost benefit of a heart-lung transplant," he said. "You don't do it because it saves money. You do it because it's the right thing to do."
Health economists say managed care plans that regard economics as the driving force behind prevention tend to offer preventive care that is low cost (like rebates on the purchase of bike helmets) or high profile (like mammograms).
 
Patches and Reminders
 Moreover, prevention programs advertised in glossy brochures sometimes have little substance, they say. The stop-smoking program at one large H.M.O. consists of a prescription for a nicotine patch -- the cost of which is not covered by the plan -- and 12 follow-up letters.
"For some companies this has become a marketing strategy as opposed to a medical strategy, and that gives prevention a bad name," Dr. Sofian said.
He and others predicted that managed care plans would improve their wellness care not because "prevention pays," but because employers would demand it.
Consider smoking cessation, for example. While patients who quit reduce their risk of heart disease, cancer and respiratory ailments over time, they also live longer and so are more likely to experience the complex medical problems of old age. Their lifetime medical costs actually rise.
But the economics of smoking looks different to the employer, who loses valuable employees to death or disability and bears the costs of sick days and smoking breaks.
In some instances, prevention and early detection are so uneconomical that managed care plans are unlikely to act without significant prodding.
Doctors now urge that people at risk for H.I.V. be screened for the virus since there are now effective drug treatments to delay progression of the disease. But these drugs cost more than $10,000 a year.
Susan M. Dooha, a senior policy analyst at Gay Men's Health Crisis, said doctors in health maintenance organizations were not taught or encouraged to screen members for the virus.
And subscriber booklets rarely mention programs for testing, even in areas with high rates of the disease. "Not all prevention is cheap -- the plans don't treat all preventive services the same way," she said.
"Realistically, the only way a plan is going to screen for H.I.V. is if an employer said, 'We won't offer you as a plan unless you do it,' " Dr. Reinhardt said. "From a purely economic standpoint, the smart strategy is not to screen, because a quick death from advanced AIDS is far more profitable than the long drawn-out maintenance of someone with early H.I.V."

GRAPHIC: Photo: H.M.O.-sponsored stress control at Griffin Hospital in Derby, Conn. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (70%); FITNESS CENTERS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); CHOLESTEROL (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



364 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
The China Connection

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
The sophisticates of the political world never tired of saying last year that the Presidential race was dull, but its aftermath has been riveting. And even the sophisticates have had a hard time figuring out how government, politics and foreign policy intersected in the Clinton campaign's finances.
The narrative thread of this scandal surely starts with President Clinton's determination to turn his fortunes around after the electoral debacle in 1994, and the millions required to produce television commercials to do it. A good chunk of the money came from Asian-Americans with ties to business deals in China. Their contributions are no doubt no different from those of many other people wanting to participate in American politics. But a lot of interconnections need to be pursued if we are ever to understand what happened over the last year and a half, and it is necessary to try to knit the known facts together with their historic context and some informed speculation. 
 A century ago, the term "Open Door" described Teddy Roosevelt's demand for a piece of the China commerce, which was dominated by European powers. Nowadays, "Open Door" could describe both the desire of investors to get into China and the desire of the Chinese for a pathway into American politics.
Most foreign investment in China today is from the so-called Chinese diaspora -- the millions of Chinese living in Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and the United States. Traditionally, these ethnic Chinese have gained influence in their adopted countries by using their economic power to help politicians and governments. The simplest explanation of the fund-raising by Charlie Trie, Johnny Chung and John Huang is that the money they funneled into the Clinton campaign was in this tradition. In turn, they probably used their White House visits and picture-taking sessions to impress future business partners.
For investigators looking into Democratic fund-raising, these possibilities are less interesting than the Riady family of Indonesia -- one of the most successful ethnic Chinese businesses in the world. Its links to the Chinese Government are more extensive than is generally appreciated. For example, the family's Hong Kong holdings are co-developers with China Resources, a Government-owned entity, in six projects in China. Another Riady-owned entity has joined with China Resources in two development projects in Indonesia, and a Riady bank has a financing relationship with the China International Trade and Investment Corporation, the largest of the state-owned trading companies. Wang Jun, a top official at that company, was brought to the White House last year by Mr. Trie and Mr. Huang.
If the Chinese were trying to influence the American election, it certainly would not be a surprise. Taiwan has doled out millions over the years for Congressional junkets and public-relations campaigns that have won many friends in Washington. It does seem implausible, however, that the Chinese would give money secretly to such acerbic critics of Chinese policies as Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who once tried to unfurl an anti-Government banner in Tiananmen Square.
A more likely possibility, according to some experts on China, is that Beijing may have been using the Riadys' connection to obtain something as precious as influence, which was information. The Chinese were shocked, for instance, when the United States allowed President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan into the United States in 1995. His entry was a loss of face for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, which had assured everyone that it would never happen. What if the Riady family, which had received favorable business terms from the Chinese on a number of investments, had something to offer Beijing in return -- its own former employee, Mr. Huang, in the inner councils of the Administration?
People who attended meetings with Mr. Huang at the Commerce Department recall that he rarely spoke up. But he retained at least some of his clearances when he moved over to the Democratic National Committee. No one is likely to claim that the Chinese living outside China turned Mr. Clinton into some sort of Manchurian candidate. But we can reasonably assume that something was going on, given the huge amounts of mysterious money flowing into the election campaign of the President and the rich variety of well-connected players running through the story. With the amount of legal and journalistic energy now arrayed, it seems only a matter of time before the sprinkled facts are arranged into a pattern. One guess is that the warnings delivered to Attorney General Janet Reno and the National Security Council about Chinese efforts to influence the American election will look like understatements. STEVEN R. WEISMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); THAILAND (77%); 

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); THAILAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; CHINESE ABROAD; FINANCES ; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); ASIAN AMERICANS (55%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; RIADY FAMILY; TRIE, CHARLIE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHUNG, JOHNNY; HUANG, JOHN ; WEISMAN, STEVEN R BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



365 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Revving Up the Dow

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average is the barometer by which many Americans measure good or bad times. Though only aficionados know how the stock index is constructed or what its ups and downs mean, people take it to be a measure of overall stock performance and -- on the dubious assumption that what happens on Wall Street is intimately tied to what happens on Main Street -- economic performance. If the Dow rises, times are deemed good. If it falls, run for cover. This week, the overseers of the Dow, the editors of The Wall Street Journal, will make a change that could signal better times ahead. They will drop four laggard stocks from the Dow and replace them with potentially stellar performers.
The Dow is a difficult-to-explain average of the shares prices of 30 American companies with "blue chip" names, like Boeing, Disney and Coca-Cola, that signify success. Created over 100 years ago, the index was originally intended to capture the movement of important industrial stocks. It no longer does so. An average of only 30 stocks does not capture movement in the share prices of thousands of publicly traded companies. Also, an index limited to huge, largely successful companies reflects a sliver of the economy. Yet the Dow retains its popularity in part because of its storied history and because, despite its skewed makeup, its movements have not deviated wildly from those of broader market averages. 
 The index is periodically upgraded to reflect changes in the nation's economy. Toward that end, the Dow tomorrow adds companies in the emerging sectors of computers, finance and health care, and drops some in waning sectors like oil and steel. Specifically, the Dow adds Johnson & Johnson, Travelers Group, Hewlett-Packard and Wal-Mart, and drops Westinghouse, Woolworth, Bethlehem Steel and Texaco. It is no accident that the stock prices of the dropouts have done relatively poorly in recent years, while the prices of the entrants have risen handsomely. Of course, the editors are not all-knowing. Some of the companies previously dropped have done well, like Chrysler.
There is one group that might not relish a Dow jiggered to better track fast-growing companies. Financial advisers earn their living by convincing clients that they can pick stocks that "beat" the Dow. But if the Dow rises faster, the stock pickers will have to get smarter to fulfill their boast. They would no doubt prefer a Dow loaded with corporate dogs, the better to convince some gullible investors that they have outsmarted the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (65%); KO (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (68%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (65%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INDEX LTD (68%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (65%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); BOEING CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (54%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; EDITORIALS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



366 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Western Clam Poses Threat, Study Finds

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., March 15

 BODY:
An invading species of clam that soaks up pollutants like a sponge is exposing wildlife in the San Francisco Bay to much higher levels of toxic selenium than previously thought, new research shows.
Two biologists from the United States Geological Survey have found that the concentration of selenium in Asian clams in Suisun Bay and the Carquinez Strait, at the northeast end of the bay, is two to three times higher than the levels found in native clam species. The findings are of concern because ducks, sturgeon, dungeness crab and other species feed on the clams. 
 Selenium is a naturally occurring element that is necessary to life in tiny amounts but can be toxic at slightly higher levels. Selenium in the bay comes from a variety of sources, but research shows that the most dangerous discharges come from the six oil refineries in Contra Costa and Solano Counties, which border the bay.
Selenium has been a concern to environmentalists since the mid-1980's when selenium contamination killed and deformed thousands of birds at the Kesterson National Wildlife Refuge in Merced County, in the Central Valley, south of here.
"I think this means we have to be much more careful about our discharges into the bay," said Sam Luoma, one of the biologists, "because the bay is much more sensitive to selenium than we thought it was."
The Geological Survey's study discloses why scientists have found higher-than-expected levels of selenium in two species of diving ducks, in Suisun Bay and nearby San Pablo Bay, said Kim Taylor of the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board.
Scientists believe selenium reaches higher levels in the Asian clam because it is a more efficient feeder than native clams, Mr. Luoma said. The Asian clams were discovered in the bay in 1986, and they are now the dominant bottom-feeding shellfish in the bay. Scientists speculate that they arrived in the bilge of ships or attached to the hulls.
Mr. Luoma said that additional research is needed to determine how selenium levels in the clams respond to changes in the environment. That, he said, will help officials determine exactly what should be done to reduce selenium levels in the bay.
Although scientists have not documented any widespread selenium injuries in Bay Area wildlife, Mr. Luoma said that at least one study had found reproductive problems in ducks that migrate from Northern California to Alaska.
Environmental groups have expressed concerns that selenium contamination could cause reproductive problems and other illnesses among the low-income people who rely on bay fish as an important food source.
In 1991 the regional water board ordered all of the refineries to drastically reduce selenium discharges by the end of 1993. Three of the refineries complied, but Exxon, Shell and Unocal filed suit, contending there was no economically feasible way to reduce selenium discharges.
As part of a settlement with the regional board, the three refineries agreed to pay $2 million for selenium research and comply with the new selenium limits by July 31, 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UCL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNOCAL CORP (50%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (77%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (77%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY; UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ALASKA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; SELENIUM; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; CLAMS WATER POLLUTION (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); BIRDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FISHES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); WATER QUALITY (62%); LITIGATION (60%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



367 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Helsinki Hopes

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The joke on the phone from Moscow has two guys in the front seat of a speeding car. One shouts "Turn the wheel! We're going to crash!" and the other says "I can't." "But there's a stone wall ahead -- turn now!" "Can't." "Why not?" "Because you have the wheel."
Boris Yeltsin has the wheel and is shouting at others to turn Russia's economy from disaster. He's six months late and $10 billion short in payments of wages to teachers, the police and the military. Unions plan an all-Russia general strike at the end of the month. 
 To show the world who's back on the job and in charge, Yeltsin put on a display of activity last week, firing everybody in sight except his passive Prime Minister, and the only reason that political zombie escaped is that Yeltsin doesn't want the Communist-dominated parliament to have its say in picking a successor.
The man Yeltsin brought back through the Kremlin revolving door is Anatoly Chubais, whom Yeltsin kicked out in the last shuffle. He is the former reformer who privatized much of Russia's assets by putting them in the corrupt hands of the old apparatchiks, the Russian mafia and the "seven brothers" oligarchy that runs the banking and media industries.
Chubais has some of the qualities of our Jim Baker: considered shrewdly manipulative by insiders, and rejected as an unprincipled cold fish by voters. He's smart enough to know further flirtation with the weakening Communists or the would-be Man on Horseback Lebed will not bring in Western capital to revivify the economy.
Where do Yeltsin and Chubais turn, now that they have given the illusion of having cleaned house, to find honest officials who know what they're doing -- and, more important, who know what to do to get Russia out of its rut?
The answer: democratic reformers. Not the shock therapists who have no following, but to the "new blood" in Yabloko, the only serious non-Communist party, which has 8 percent of the Duma seats and is building a national political organization.
But Chubais, 41, has a personal problem with Yabloko: its leader, Grigory Yavlinsky, 44, is his rival. "I love Grisha," Chubais told me last year, "but he's impossible." Chubais sees the stubbornly incorruptible Yavlinsky as having yozh v shtanakh, "a hedgehog in his trousers," being what we might call "a pain in the posterior."
How does Chubais, back in power for the time being as First Deputy Prime Minister, bring in the good guys to help without the "impossible" chief good guy?
Divide and conquer. Last week, he offered five of the Yabloko leaders -- but not Yavlinsky -- key domestic ministries, from economic-financial to social policy and privatization. These were all men who pointedly refused to vote for Yeltsin in the last election.
But the reformers did not splinter. Acting as a unit, with a suddenly friendly television media giving Yavlinsky time to express his support on prime time, the chosen handful from Yabloko stuck together and published a set of conditions for coalition.
The plan: force all Government officials to reveal income and property holdings; cut the bureaucratic apparat of the president; make monopolies like Gazprom, railways and arms manufacturers pay taxes; propose new laws to attract foreigners to develop natural resources. Yavlinsky's demand: "human rights, private property, competition, payment of debts to the people."
Will Chubais swallow all this reformist good sense and sell it to Yeltsin? Not if he can avoid it. But if the tide of resentment keeps rising, and the alternative is Lebed, he may be inclined to do the right thing for the country.
Strange things can happen. Who would have imagined, three months ago, a Russo-American summit with a frisky Russian President and the U.S. leader on crutches, literally and politically?
Bill Clinton, who has not been weak-kneed on NATO enlargement, should stop apologizing for protecting Poland and start bringing in the Baltic states.
He should stop making concessions on NATO troop positioning and change the subject to how America would respond positively to a Yeltsin coalition with Yabloko's democratic reformers.
Sure it's a long shot. But in this world of topsy-turvy political fortunes, what's a summit for?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; EUROPE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (65%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CHUBAIS, ANATOLY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



368 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: Pollution Drives Away Neighborhood and Trust

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: ANNISTON, Ala.

 BODY:
The houses on Boynton Street have all gone blind.
The windows used to peer out on a real neighborhood, on children who chased softballs down the narrow street, on women who filed into Eloise Mealing's beauty shop and came out looking good. 
 Now those windows are covered with plywood, and the small white houses are boarded up. There is nothing left to look at anyway, in the blue-collar, black neighborhood that the people called Sweet Valley in this industrial town of about 30,000 people. The next visitors to Boynton Street will be big yellow bulldozers, to tear it all down.
Sweet Valley, which had coexisted with the nearby Monsanto chemical plant since the 1930's, is contaminated with toxic polychlorinated biphenyls, better known as PCB's, manufactured here for four decades. Pollution from the PCB's, which are now banned, left much of Sweet Valley and the adjoining neighborhood of Cobb Town unfit for people, the state said. So, last year, the people left.
With them, they carried a legacy of contamination that, they hope, is only in their minds. The people are left to wonder what, if any, long-term effect a longtime exposure to PCB's may have. The memories run warm, then cold, a mix of nostalgia and dread.
"We hoped our last days would be our best days," said the 71-year-old Eloise Mealing, one of the 30 or so homeowners who left, along with relatives, renters and other residents. "I was comfortable living here," Mrs. Mealing said. "Not rich, not having all the material things that we needed, but my family grew up in a home of love. We had our garden. We had our plum trees, apple trees, peach trees and pecans. The children played in the dirt, ate the vegetables, ate fruit off the trees."
"There was a ditch that ran by my home," she recalled, and when it rained and the brown water washed down from the chemical plant, "the children played there, too, right there, where it was contaminated most."
PCB's, suspected in a number of diseases afflicting people but so far proved to cause cancers only in laboratory animals, laced the dirt in flower beds, the dust on drapes and carpets, even the furniture on which the people sat, and slept. Over time it insinuated itself into their very blood, as tests showed unusually high levels in some residents. Older people, in particular, tested high.
Now the empty yards blossom with tiny yellow flags, to mark the spots of soil testing.
"It's just dead," 33-year-old Cheryl Smith said of the neighborhood. "It scares me."
PCB's, a family of several synthetic, organic compounds once used in newspaper ink, hydraulic fluids and insulation in electric transformers, take years or even decades to break down. They collect on plants, in water and soil, and are absorbed by insects, fish, animals and people.
Last year, the Alabama Department of Public Health declared Sweet Valley and Cobb Town a public health hazard.
Monsanto, one of the largest chemical manufacturers in the country, denied that it had knowingly contaminated the neighborhood, but began buying out some homeowners even before agreeing with the state to clean up the polluted area and buy the homes.
"We were trying to be as fair as we could," said Jack Mayausky, the Monsanto plant manager. "They had lived there for a long time. Some of them have never moved."
Monsanto, based in St. Louis, offered well above market value for the homes, paid relocation expenses and compensated renters, company officials said. It even bought a new church for one congregation. Altogether, the company spent $1.5 million to $2 million on the relocation project.
But that is not the end of it for people here. More than 1,000 people -- residents past and present and visitors to two churches who fear that they were exposed -- are suing Monsanto for the destruction of their neighborhoods, and for myriad medical concerns as yet not proved to have any connection with PCB's.
As evacuations go, maybe, Sweet Valley is a tiny one. In the 1980's, 700 families were relocated from Times Beach, Mo., after floodwater spread the toxic chemical byproduct dioxin throughout the town, forcing its abandonment. The chemical had been in oil sprayed on unpaved roads. Earlier, about the same number of families had been relocated from the Love Canal area of Niagara Falla, N.Y., after toxic chemicals buried by a chemical company were found to be leaching onto the surface from the groundwater.
But residents here also left their entire world behind.

From Bitter Memories, Today's Realities
Land is cheaper downhill. The people and the plant wound up in the same neighborhood for the same reason.
In Anniston, wealthier whites tended to settle on high ground to the east. Poorer people, including blacks who left the desperation of field work to find jobs in the foundries here, shared the lower ground with the steel mills, pipe shops and plants that powered the town's economy.
The fact that the air did not smell so good, or that flood waters crept inside the houses after every hard rain, did not make it any less of a neighborhood, say those who lived in Sweet Valley. It was not an idyllic place. But it was home, said Cassandra Roberts, Mrs. Mealing's daughter, whose father built their house after he scratched out the floor plan on a scrap of paper at a kitchen table.
Just out of sight was the old Swann chemical plant, which developed PCB's. Monsanto bought the plant in the 1930's and inherited the PCB production.
For decades the rains washed the chemicals down onto her neighborhood, Mrs. Roberts said.
She remembers the air that smelled like rotten eggs, and that ditch, just a game of leap frog from the front door. She remembers alarms that would sound at the plant as she and friends played in their yards, and how her mother would just say, oh, "That's Monsanto mixing up something."
"I'll never be naive again," said Mrs. Roberts, who leads the Sweet Valley-Cobb Town Environmental Justice Task Force.
Now she knows that the people and PCB's shared this section of west Anniston for more than half a century, because even after Monsanto stopped making PCB's, the chemicals lingered around them, and within them. So, when someone dies, or gets sick, or a baby is born imperfect, they wonder.
Ruth Mimms, 65, is certain.
"My daughter played in that ditch," Mrs. Mimms said, "and my grandbabies, both of them, live on breathing machines. One is 6, the other will be 10."
Both children have respiratory problems, she said.
"My oldest son played in that ditch," she said. "His baby doesn't have any joints in her fingers."
A great-nephew is paralyzed from a brain tumor. A sister died of cancer.
"It all comes from the chemicals," Mrs. Mimms said. "We lived in it all our lives, and this is the end result."
One woman blames PCB's for a daughter's rare, fatal form of cancer. Another blames the chemicals for a son's birth defect, a missing section of his digestive system. An old man says they caused the sores on his legs.
But the laying of blame has come more at kitchen tables and in church parking lots than in doctors' offices, fueled more by doubt and fear than medical science.
Doctors who interviewed residents last year did not find any firm connection between exposure to PCB's and health problems.
"We just don't know," said one of the physicians, Dr. Michael Mueller, an assistant professor of occupational and environmental medicine at the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
 
Frightening Links, But Few Facts
Science has not proved that PCB's pose a cancer threat to people. According to a report by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry of the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, studies suggest that PCB's are associated with leukemia and cancers of the skin, liver, gall bladder, brain and bile duct, but those effects "have not been adequately studied."
PCB's, banned by the Environmental Protection Agency in 1979 because of their threat to the environment, have been found in Government studies to cause other health problems, like below-normal birth weights, a form of acne and shifts in cholesterol levels.
"The problem is that there are as many studies that show there are no health effects as there are studies that show there are health effects," said Neil Daniel, a geologist with the Alabama Department of Public Health who has investigated the PCB contamination and its consequences.
Mr. Daniel noted that the Anniston site did not qualify for cleanup under the Federal Superfund program, but said that the contamination was "as widespread as any of the Superfund sites I've seen."
Like many of her former neighbors, Mrs. Mealing has decided to stay in Anniston, in an apartment about two miles from her old home. She no longer dismisses her aches as old age.
"When my body starts paining, I can't help but think of the PCB's," said Mrs. Mealing, whose blood tested at 12 times the acceptable level of PCB's. "I'm trusting in God."
 
 Production Stopped, But Danger Stayed
Children used to push each other in the ditch. "We didn't know any better," said Lonnie Barnett, now 47.
The question that the lawsuits may now turn on is whether, and when, Monsanto knew.
Only in the past few years have people in the neighborhood known of any potential threat. The lawsuits charge that the company knowingly released PCB's from the plant even after the environmental threat became apparent in the late 1960's.
Donald W. Stewart, the lawyer who is representing hundreds of people who either lived in the neighborhood or spent time there, said:
"There is no evidence people had any knowledge that they and their property were being basically poisoned. There will be evidence that indicates Monsanto knew what was happening, long before they disclosed it. And evidence that Monsanto knew of the dangers of it, and warned their customers about it, just did not warn the neighbors."
Robert Kaley, Monsanto's director of environmental affairs, said the company released no PCB-laden waste water once it learned of the threat, after scientists discovered the environmental hazards of PCB's. Production stopped in 1971, Mr. Kaley said, eight years before the E.P.A. ban on PCB's.
But the legacy remained. The lawsuits stem from a discovery in 1994 that soil from property east of the plant was saturated with PCB's, carried there by rainwater, perhaps from tainted soil dumped on or near the plant. Cleaning up that mess, and preventing such an occurrence in the future, is part of Monsanto's agreement with the state.
Part of that cleanup will be razing the houses on Boynton Street.
But the agreement also allows homeowners to still sue even if Monsanto bought their homes.
Some people said that they would have preferred not to move, but that staying seemed too dangerous. Health officials warned them over the past two years to cover their mouths and noses when outdoors on windy days, to keep doors and windows closed and keep rugs, drapes and furniture fabrics free of dust.
They were warned to wear masks while cleaning. They were warned against eating any fruits or vegetables they raised.
That was not the life that had made the neighborhood their home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many homes in the Sweet Valley neighborhood in Anniston, Ala., were boarded up after high levels of PCB's were found in fish in creeks in the area; Ruth Mimms is being forced to move after the Monsanto Chemical Company bought her neighborhood, found to be polluted with PCB's. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO MONSANTO CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNISTON (ALA); UNITED STATES (91%); ALABAMA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB); SUITS AND LITIGATION WATER POLLUTION (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CHLORINE (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (88%); INDUSTRIAL LUBRICANTS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); TEST LABORATORIES (65%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



369 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Deadline Nears for States To Develop Antismog Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15

 BODY:
After two years of studies, the Eastern states are facing Federal pressure to solve air pollution problems that transcend regional boundaries. If they do not soon agree on a coordinated solution, the Government is expected to require costly new rules affecting many states.
Environmental agencies from the 36 easternmost states, in an extraordinary collaboration involving hundreds of participants from government, industry, academia and environmental advocacy groups, have been trying to devise a transregional approach to help the dirtiest areas, which are mostly in the Northeast, achieve the Clean Air Act's limits on ozone, the main ingredient in smog. 
 The plan could impose new controls on industrial polluters in the Middle Western and Southern states, thought to be the source of much of the smog in cities like New York, Washington and Boston.
But deciding how to proceed is proving elusive, and the technical work by the federally sponsored coalition known as the Ozone Transport Assessment Group, or OTAG, is behind the schedule originally set by the Environmental Protection Agency. The E.P.A., increasing pressure on the states, has said that it intends to propose the tougher pollution limits on many of them this spring, even though the group is not likely to complete its work before June.
Already, schisms are appearing between the various states and interest groups involved in the ozone group's deliberations.
"The tensions are going to get very high," said Mary Gade, the Illinois environmental commissioner and chairman of the ozone transport group's policy committee. "The stakes are high, politically, economically and in terms of public health."
On Friday in Philadelphia, the group presented the final computer analysis on how to deal with the drifting smog.
Specialists described how they believe smog travels from region to region and how various schemes could change the pattern. In the most ambitious scenario, pollution across the 36 states could be cut almost 40 percent, with power plant emissions reduced as much as 85 percent.
"It is extremely unlikely that any of the most aggressive control strategies will be adopted by this group," said David Hawkins, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "E.P.A. will have to use its authority."
Even some participants who say they favor giving more authority to the states in carrying out environmental laws, like David Struhs, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, are counting on the Federal Government to back them up if the states fail to reach consensus.
"If nothing else, what we gain from this is a solid, comprehensive set of evidence that, in a worst-case scenario, we can use in court," Mr. Struhs said. But he called himself "an optimist by nature: I continue to be optimistic that OTAG will surprise everyone in the end and reach some kind of consensus."
Gov. Angus King of Maine, a state that suffers chronically from smog blowing across its borders, said: "There is going to be a certain amount of bashing into each other, inevitably. But at some point there has to be a collaborative resolution."
The discussions over how to control the long-distance movements of smog are especially important because the E.P.A. is simultaneously proposing more stringent national standards for ozone pollution, and the Federal agency believes that a transregional solution is essential if states with the worst smog problems are to have any hope of reaching the new goals.
In addition, the prospect of deregulating interstate sales of electricity means that unless environmental rules are changed, relatively low-cost and high-polluting power plants in the Middle West might in the future export more smog along with cheap power to other states.
To bolster their case for far-flung solutions to their local problems, Maine and the seven other Northeastern states this week issued a study of weather and pollution data; they said the study proves beyond a reasonable doubt that the solution to their problem lies among the smokestacks and boiler rooms of the industrial Middle West.
The report, written by the Northeastern States for Coordinated Air Use Management, says that by the year 2007 smokestacks in Ohio alone are likely to produce more oxides of nitrogen, or NOx, than those in all eight Northeastern states combined. NOx is changed to ozone, an irritating gas, forming smog that can travel for hundreds of miles.
In the meantime, industry groups and state officials in the Middle west and South have already begun to argue that ozone pollution may not travel far enough to justify transregional controls.
"Although not complete, the OTAG modeling analyses are changing common perceptions of the transport issue," said Gov. Don Sundquist of Tennessee, in a letter to the E.P.A. in January. "Contrary to expectations, the modeling is not showing significant long-range interstate ozone transport."
"The science so far shows ozone stays close to its sources," argued the Midwest Ozone Group, a coalition of power companies, in a recent report analyzing OTAG's preliminary work. Using environmental jargon for meeting or not meeting air-quality goals, the report said, "Science shows reducing ozone locally in non-attainment areas continues to be the most effective way to attain standard. Costly controls on Midwest sources don't appear to help Northeastern states."
In their report this week, though, the Northeastern states reached exactly the opposite conclusion from the same data produced by the ozone group.
"The OTAG modeling shows that broad-based regional NOx reductions will have significant air quality benefits throughout the eastern United States," the report said.
Governor King of Maine said that it was practically self-evident that his state's worst pollution blew in from elsewhere and must be controlled in other states.
"You don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows," he said, quoting Bob Dylan.
But judging by the prevailing political winds, he may need a lawyer. Last year Maine sued the E.P.A. to require the agency, under the Clean Air Act, to control pollution in upwind states. But to give the ozone transport group time to reach its recommendations, his suit did not call for the E.P.A. to act immediately.
Past efforts to devise transregional smog controls have not gone smoothly.
On Tuesday, Virginia won its own lawsuit against the E.P.A. when a Federal appeals court overturned the agency's proposal to require new cars sold in 12 states, from Virginia northeast to Maine, to meet more stringent pollution standards.
The agency had issued the rule at the request of the Ozone Transport Commission, a body established by the Clean Air Act to address Northeastern smog. The commission wanted all 12 member states to abide by the same automobile regulations.
The work of the broader, 36-member OTAG could potentially have far greater ramifications than the proposals by the Northeastern states to require cleaner cars.
Smog comes not only from vehicle exhaust but also from factory and power plant smokestacks and from emissions of volatile organic compounds, like fuel vapors. Dealing with long-distance smog could involve complex decisions over which sources to control.
The diverse states may not agree that transregional controls are needed, but if they do, there appears to be a broad consensus over how to go about the process.
Under a market-based approach being designed by the ozone transport group, the Government would put caps on emissions of oxides of nitrogen at much lower levels than at present and would allow the sources of pollution to buy and sell the right to emit the chemicals. That way, in theory, the cheapest controls would be put into place first.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; OZONE; SMOG; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) SMOG (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR ANGUS KING (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



370 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS;
Expecting a Flood of Network Cash, N.F.L. Plans for Drought

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir 

DATELINE: PALM DESERT, Calif.

 BODY:
When your league is flush with $4.4 billion in television money, and it stands to increase that take by 50 percent or more, must you worry about bad times ahead? If you're the National Football League you do, even if your TV money will soon approximate the annual compensation paid by the Walt Disney Company to Michael Eisner, its chairman.
So, in very preliminary talks, N.F.L. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and Gene Upshaw, the leader of the players' union, have discussed setting aside a so-far unspecified chunk of future TV money for the days when -- who knows? -- there aren't enough takers for $250,000 luxury suites, $45 seats or $8.50 beers, and offensive linemen's salaries are greater than the gross domestic product of Finland. 
 "With enough money, we might want to negotiate with the union," Tagliabue said here last week. "I've broached it with the union. We have a healthy economy. Six straight years of growth. And we have prospects for substantial revenue increases from television. In a rainy-day fund, you'd maybe defer some TV money the first year, and then if you need it, you have it, and if not, it would be redistributed to the players," as an increase to the pension fund, or in lump-sum payments to players. "Right now, it's just a concept."
As the largest source of money that flows into the N.F.L., television revenues have the greatest impact on the income that flows out to players, and on setting the salary cap. The amount of money that would be diverted into any possible fund could slow salary growth.
Tagliabue did not specify which woes would trigger the need to dip into such an account. The informal Tagliabue-Upshaw chats have spread to a few owners, who whispered about the rainy-day fund concept during the league's annual meetings. But while the league may want to do it, it clearly can't be done without the union.
"Gene thinks it's intelligent, but it's premature to discuss numbers," Tagliabue said.
Doug Allen, the assistant executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association, said that Upshaw had not briefed him on the embryonic idea. "We haven't agreed to anything that would treat television money differently than it is now," he said.
That television rights money isn't all the networks pay for the N.F.L. In this peculiar world, the networks spent lavishly at the Marriott Desert Springs Hotel on parties to amuse and feed team owners, coaches and executives. Paying for the privilege to pay: it sounds like those wacky personal seat licenses that fans are required to buy in order to own the rights to buy season tickets.
At these parties, Fox and N.F.L. executives gleefully blew smoke at each other from the respective ends of foot-long Dominican cigars; NBC's Greg Gumbel and ESPN's Chris Berman swapped bawdy tales; ABC's Dan Dierdorf showed off the mobility an artificial hip has given him; the Baltimore Ravens owner Art Modell joked that he never really had a bodyguard during the nasty brouhaha over moving the Cleveland Browns, "just a driver with an Uzi," and many people paid obeisance to Eisner during his ABC party cameo.
Within all this fun was the posturing and positioning that goes with the months-long lead-up to new contract talks between the league and the networks.
"We're looking forward to it," said David Hill, the president of Fox Sports, whose company's $1.58 billion investment in the N.F.L. roiled the industry in 1993.
"We didn't come this far to bow out at this point," said Robert Wright, president of NBC, whose $868 million rights fee will rise by leaps and maybe bounds. "We're in it."
An interesting perspective comes from Dennis Swanson, the president of ABC Sports until last spring, who is now the president of NBC-owned WNBC-TV.
In 1993, Swanson came away from his N.F.L. talks with a bargain for ABC: $920 million through 1997.
Nearly four years later, Swanson is thrilled to be gone from ABC Sports and running the local TV home of the Jets. After making that ABC-N.F.L. deal, he said, "I didn't want to renew against that number" -- reasoning that the N.F.L. will pinch ABC for gobs more cash to renew its "Monday Night Football" package.
Dick Ebersol, the president of NBC Sports, said he fully expects to have to pay heavily to keep the American Football Conference package.
"Every one of us has to be extra alert, except Fox because they are up so high," he said. "They have a right to be a tad relaxed."
A few N.F.L. owners insist that doubling their TV cash is possible (largely because CBS is the odd network out, and is looking to pay to get back in). But Modell, the former head of the league's broadcast committee, said of the potential increase: "They don't know what they're talking about. I'd say 35 percent on the low side, 50 to 60 percent on the high side."
Al Davis, the Oakland Raiders' chieftain, recently predicted a doubling. When asked to reiterate his claim, he asked, "What's it going to cost me to say that?"
Nothing, Al. It's on the networks' tab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) WALT DISNEY CO (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; FINANCES; TELEVISION WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (68%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; TAGLIABUE, PAUL; UPSHAW, GENE MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



371 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Russian Media, Free of One Master, Greet Another

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 15

 BODY:
Every Sunday evening, Russia's most influential television news program unveils a new tale of intrigue and corruption.
The targets are President Boris N. Yeltsin's old cronies and new political foes. The anchorman is Yevgeny Kiselyov, a dapper correspondent for NTV, who is Russia's Peter Jennings, Dan Rather and Tom Brokaw rolled into one. 
 Mr. Kiselyov and his colleagues at NTV, Russia's independent television network, wear the mantle of crusading journalists determined to ferret out the links between former Kremlin aides and multimillion-dollar crimes.
"We are basically anti-Communist, pro-reform and pro-democracy," Mr. Kiselyov said proudly.
But others say that the reports also appear aimed at settling old political scores on behalf of the Government and its supporters in the business community.
"The program is excessively politicized," said Mikhail Berger, the respected economics editor for the daily Izvestia.
With the collapse of the Soviet Union, many of Russia's news media have wrenched themselves free from Government control. At the same time, the lines between information and business are becoming increasingly blurred.
Russia's largest television stations and newspapers are owned by energy companies, large banks and entrepreneurs like Boris A. Berezovksy, the tycoon who became Mr. Yeltsin's deputy national security adviser.
Mr. Kiselyov himself is the public face of Media-Most, the communications empire of Vladimir Gusinsky, a theatrical producer turned banker.
The concentration of power in the hands of a relative few -- along with the linking of big money, big media and government power -- has raised searching questions about Russia's young democracy.
The new media czars insist that they are simply copying the American model, in which private ownership is a mark of independence and a barrier against government censorship.
But critics say some media barons are out to protect their business interests and unfairly influence people.
"This is not real journalism," said Boris G. Fyodorov, a pro-reform former Finance Minister. "This is political games."
By all accounts, Mr. Gusinsky is Russia's most powerful and sophisticated media mogul. At 44, he has already made a fortune as head of Most Bank. But he left it in January to establish Media-Most, saying he wanted to avoid a conflict of interest with the bank and focus on his media holdings.
His is a vast and variegated empire, which includes NTV, the newspaper Segodyna, Ekho Moskvy radio, the publishing house Sem Dnei and the magazine Itogi, a joint venture with Newsweek.
As a young man, Mr. Gusinsky was denounced as "anti-Soviet" for staging a play by Mikhail Bulgakov in Tula, an industrial town near Moscow. (Mr. Bulgakov fought a lifelong battle with Soviet censors, and many of his key works were not published until decades after his death.)
An active member of Russia's Jewish community, Mr. Gusinsky describes himself as a builder of a new Russia.
"I have a dream," he recalled in a recent interview in his office, where a caged boa constrictor was on display. "When I am not in this world anymore or am very old, they will remember the name Gusinsky just as they recall the name of the family who started The New York Times."
But Mr. Gusinsky's media ventures, including his four-channel satellite broadcast system, NTV Plus, have also drawn him into the lucrative area of entertainment.
One of the television personalities he most admires, he said, is Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the sex therapist. He still marvels at how the heads of passers-by turned when he and she walked down the street in New York City.
He has powerful rivals, particularly Mr. Berezovsky, 50, a wheeler-dealer who used his Logovaz car sales network to launch a business empire and a government career.
Mr. Berezovsky has served as deputy chairman of the board at ORT, which is 51 percent owned by the Government, and has invested heavily in the TV-6 television network. He has also reached into his deep pockets to rescue the newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta and acquire an interest in the weekly magazine Ogonyok.
Russia's nascent corporate sector has dived into the media market as well. Gazprom, the huge natural-gas monopoly, has a 30 percent stake in NTV and substantial interests in two papers, Trud and Komsomolskaya Pravda, the latter one of Moscow's most popular.
Lukoil, Russia's largest oil company, has a 20 percent share of Izvestia. Powerful banks have invested in the weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta and the newspaper Vek.
Even some Government-controlled media companies have become increasingly dependent on the private sector. The RTR television channel, although owned by the Government, relies on commercials to supplement its meager subsidies.
Experts say the problem is not private ownership, which acts as a balance to the Government. (In any case, they point out, some of the media owners have conflicting economic interests, which would make it hard for one of them to monopolize the news.)
"The problem," Mr. Berger said, "is when the shares are in the hand of one company. Gazprom is investing in one of the most popular papers so that at the right moment it can resist efforts by the Government or the Parliament to withdraw its privileges." He was referring to Komsomolskaya Pravda.
As for political bias, critics see it in some of the most effective and professionally run organizations, like Mr. Gusinsky's NTV.
During the war in Chechnya, NTV acquired a reputation for independence, with graphic reports that poked holes in the Kremlin's claims. The authoritarian President of Belarus, Aleksandr Lukashenko, was so infuriated recently by NTV's reports on events in Minsk that he threatened to block its broadcasts.
But the network was also accused of siding with President Yeltsin during his re-election campaign. NTV's managing director, Igor Malashenko, advised the Yeltsin team on image-making during the campaign.
Mr. Malashenko, who is in the process of launching a political consulting company, said NTV reporters did not take their cue from Mr. Gusinsky. But he acknowledged that his network's journalists believed their profession to be threatened by the Communists.
"There is a liberal bias in NTV," he said. "We have a bias against a politician who will reintroduce censorship or government control."
Critics say the network was repaid for its loyalty to Mr. Yeltsin when, after the election, it no longer had to cede air time for educational programming.
NTV's Sunday news program, "Itogi," which is anchored by Mr. Kiselyov, has continued to pound away at the Kremlin's enemies. In a series of reports, it has detailed corruption in the aluminum industry, which it has linked with Oleg N. Soskovets, a man ousted from the post of First Deputy Prime Minister last year.
Yeltsin supporters have been concerned that proceeds from the highly lucrative aluminum industry will be used to finance the presidential ambitions of Aleksander I. Lebed. Their fear is that Mr. Lebed will join forces with Mr. Soskovets and Aleksandr V. Korshakov, the President's former bodyguard and a staunch enemy of Mr. Gusinsky.
Mr. Kiselyov said that although he and Mr. Gusinsky often talked on political subjects, Mr. Gusinsky did not interfere with news decisions. Mr. Gusinsky, for his part, said his job at Media-Most was more about making money than making news.
"To influence editorial policy is not my profession," he said.
But he confessed with a smile that his idea of business was all-embracing. "Whatever is good for business in Russia is good for Russia," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "WHO'S WHO: Russia's Media Czars"
Russia's largest television stations, newspapers and magazines are owned by the Government, energy companies, large banks and entrepreneurs like Vladimir Gusinsky and Boris Berezovsky. Here is a list of their holdings.
 
VLADIMIR GUSINSKY
At 44, he is perhaps Russia's most powerful and sophisticated media mogul. He made a fortune as the head of Most Bank, but left in January to form Media-Most, the communications empire. An active member of Russia's Jewish community, he describes himself as a builder of a new Russia.
 
NTV TELEVISION NETWORK
Owns 51 percent. Established in 1993, it broadcasts throughout Russia but has fewer transmitters than the Government-controlled stations. It claims to reach a potential audience of 87 million, more than half of Russia's population of nearly 150 million.
 
MEDIA-MOST -- controlling interest
EKHO MOSKVY -- radio
SEGODYNA -- newspaper
ITOGI -- magazine (joint venture with Newsweek)
SEM DNEI -- publishing house
 
BORIS A. BEREZOVSHY
A 50-year-old former car dealer, he helped bankroll President Boris N. Yeltsin's re-election campaign last year and was rewarded with the post of Deputy Secretary of Russia's National Security Council. In addition to car dealerships, Mr. Berezovshy's company Logovaz owns interests in banks, an oil company, prime real estate and a share of the nation's largest television network, ORT.
 
ORT TELEVISION NETWORK
Owns 8 percent and reportedly controls additional shares through banks. Established in 1994, the network broadcasts to all of Russia and reaches the nation's entire population. It also broadcasts to former Soviet republics.
 
TV-6 -- unspecified interest
Established in 1993, the network broadcasts throughtout Russia. It is also available in former Soviet republics and Baltic countries.
NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA -- newspaper
OGONYOK -- magazine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R BORIS BEREZOVSKY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



372 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: After Pay Freeze, a Plan to Increase Union Dues 30% Angers City Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Stanley Hill, executive director of the largest union of New York City municipal employees, has created a storm among the union's 120,000 members by proposing a hefty dues increase while they are still under a 27-month pay freeze.
Many workers in District Council 37 assert that before the union's top officials push to raise dues by almost 30 percent, the leaders' pay should be cut, including that of Mr. Hill, who makes $257,000 a year. 
 "At a time when economic times are difficult and members are living paycheck to paycheck, the timing is horrible," said Frank Jerez, an emergency medical technician who confronted Mr. Hill about the increase. "If we're in trying times, everyone has to give a little back. I told Stanley he ought to take a $100,000 pay cut. He'd still live much better than most of the people he represents."
Mr. Hill is urgently campaigning for a dues increase because the union, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, is facing a $5.4 million annual deficit. Nonetheless, of the 56 union locals in the council, 3 prominent ones are on record against the increase: those representing 15,000 social workers, 1,800 library workers and 2,300 accountants and statisticians.
Upset that Mr. Hill accepted a contract with a 27-month pay freeze, Raymond Markey, president of the librarians' local, said: "We oppose the increase because our members can't afford it. I think any dues increase should be tied to what the union produces. If the union doesn't negotiate a contract with money in it, you can't expect the members to be happy about a dues increase."
Actually, the district council's leadership is proposing that the increase begin April 1, the same time that the workers receive their first raise in 27 months. But many union members -- whose salaries average under $25,000 -- say they are insulted that the union wants to take more money as soon as they receive their long-awaited 3 percent raise. The leaders of the union, which has a $29 million budget, are seeking $2.50 more a month now and $5.50 more a month on Jan. 1.
Mr. Hill defended the increase as necessary to close a budget deficit caused largely by a decline of 11,000 in the union's membership brought about by the city's shrinking of its work force.
"Either we cut back drastically and lay off people or we continue the services we've done for years," he said. "We have to handle thousands and thousands of grievances. We help educate people. We're expanding our citizenship classes. We have to go to the Governor's office, City Hall, the State Legislature. And now we have to organize workfare people. All that costs money."
Mr. Hill voiced confidence that the union's 24-member executive board and 325-member delegate assembly would approve the increase. But some union members assert that the increase will be rejected in a rank-and-file vote.
For many workers, the opposition is visceral, focusing on union leaders' salaries and their winter retreats in Florida and the Bahamas -- trips that union officials say they have stopped.
"This increase is outrageous, coming after 27 months without a raise," said Carol Thomas, an administrator at the Andrew Heiskell Library for the Blind in Manhattan. "I understand D.C. 37 has a big deficit, but it didn't seem to bother Stanley Hill and the other top people when they set their own salaries."
Mr. Hill's annual pay is higher than that of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani ($165,000); John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ($192,500); Dennis Rivera, president of the 117,000-member National Health and Human Service Employees Union ($96,000); Sandra Feldman, president of the 90,000-member United Federation of Teachers ($157,000), and Jay Mazur, president of the 300,000-member Union of Needletrades ($165,000).
Defending his pay, Mr. Hill said: "If you compare me with Dennis Rivera or Sandy Feldman, I have to represent this whole city. I don't represent just one title. I have to be an expert in administration and on the work of 56 different locals, representing social workers, engineers and school lunch workers, you name it. I can pick up the phone and speak to the Governor or the Mayor. I can have my international president talk to the President. That's what you call value."
Mr. Hill noted that he works seven days a week and that the union's executive board unanimously set his salary. Some critics, however, say that board members are simply backscratching when they approve high salaries for one another.
These critics question the $188,000 in pay for Robert F. Myers Jr., the union's treasurer; the $174,000 received by Al Diop, president of the 22,000-member clerical local, and the $224,000 by Charles Hughes, whose local represents 19,000 cafeteria workers and other part-time board of education workers.
Mr. Hill insisted that his staff was the best union staff in the city and was not overpaid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (93%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTIES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%); GOVERNORS (67%); PARAMEDICS (55%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HILL, STANLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



373 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-23
 
Important City in Zaire Falls Quickly to Rebels
The largest and last Government-held city in eastern Zaire fell to rebels forces, posing the most serious threat yet to the 31-year-rule of President Mobutu Sese Seko. The city, Kisangani, was the centerpiece of the Government's fight against the six-month-old rebellion, and its defeat raised serious questions about whether the regime can survive. Even more discouraging to the Government was the apparent switch of elite forces there to the rebel side. 1
 
Rabble Police Force in Albania
Albanians joined a rabble police force meant to restore order in the nation's capital. Some were loyal to the unpopular President, showing that a newly formed Government exerts little control and is fraught with hostile interests. Western governments are relying on the fragile coalition to end the chaos. 12 

Arafat Appeals for Help
Yasir Arafat asked for international pressure to "save the peace process" from Israel's plan to build a Jewish neighborhood on occupied land in Jerusalem. Participants said Washington was alone in opposing a resolution criticizing Israel. 19
 
Left Stands to Gain in Salvador
El Salvador makes another big step toward a civil society when it votes on Sunday, in the second election since the civil war ended five years ago. The former rebels are poised to make the sort of gains in congressional and municipal elections that they failed to achieve in 12 years of fighting because the governing party and its economic policies have alienated many voters. 8
 
NATIONAL 24-40
 
Democrats Unenthusiastic About Defending Clinton
Democrats in Congress are offering no defense of President Clinton as he struggles against accusations of improper campaign fund-raising. Some feel the President never stuck up for them, some believe his fund-raising tactics were indefensible, and some simply do not want to take political chances. 1

Embryos in Storage
Tens of thousands of embryos are steadily accumulating in tanks of liquid nitrogen across the country, an eerie consequence of the recent success of in vitro fertilization, raising moral and ethical questions about what to do with them. 1

Infamous Ship Still Unwelcome
The people who live on Prince William Sound in Alaska know that the crew, not the ship, was responsible for one of the worst oil spills in history, but they still do not want the Exxon Valdez to be allowed to return to their area. 24
 
A Study of Drugs on Campuses
Drug arrests on leading college campuses climbed by almost 18 percent in 1995, a survey shows, but some officials attributed the increase to stricter enforcement of drug laws rather than to increased drug use. 25
 
Brain Implant Endorsed
A panel of scientific advisers says the Government should approve a pacemaker-like brain implant to help Parkinson's patients and others who suffer from tremors. 40

Criticism From a Former Insider
A former Administration official says President Clinton made a serious error when he signed legislation to overhaul welfare. 39
 
NEW YORK/REGION 41-45
 
T.W.A. Inquiry Rejects Nothing
The eight-month investigation in the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800 has turned into a nationwide scientific exploration of all conceivable explanations -- even the most remote. 1
 
AIDS Patients Over 50
Long overlooked, patients over 50 are a growing number of the victims of the AIDS epidemic. 41
 
Con. Vote 45
 
Styles 49
 
Weather 34
 
Obituaries 46-47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (77%); CITIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (70%); DRUG POLICY (69%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (67%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (62%); OIL SPILLS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



374 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Hot Issue in Lilco Takeover Talks: Who Pays for Shoreham?

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: SHOREHAM, L.I.

 BODY:
Standing like a bulky gray sentinel on the coastline here, the Shoreham power plant soars more than 200 feet high. If it had windows, they would offer a commanding view of Long Island Sound.
The main tower is a pillar of concrete -- enough, it is said, to pave a road to Florida. Inside is a high-tech labyrinth of chambers, pipes, cables and turbines. It produced electricity just once -- for a one-day, low-level test in the 1980's. 
 Now, with current negotiations for a partial state takeover of its owner, the Long Island Lighting Company, reaching the final stage, the true cost of Shoreham and who should pay for it are a main issue of debate.
For more than three decades, the Shoreham project has cast a long shadow over Long Island. The Lilco takeover is part of Gov. George E. Pataki's plan to cut local electric bills, the highest in North America.
"If Shoreham had never been built, we wouldn't be where we are today," said Jonathan Sinnreich, a member of the state's Long Island Power Authority.
Without Shoreham, Lilco's rates would be a third to a fourth lower, experts say. The power authority itself, created to deal with the island's energy problem, would not exist. And Lilco, long wounded by Shoreham, would probably not be merging with the Brooklyn Union Gas Company.
Critics say that unless something is done now, Shoreham's debt will ultimately cost Lilco customers $20 billion or more. To avoid that, the critics insist that Lilco absorb a big part of the loss, a demand the company had opposed.
Even based on lower cost figures from the past, experts say the 800-megawatt plant may be the most expensive thing ever built and then abandoned. It was closed because of public concerns over safety, the environment and costs.
The ill-fated plant has been a drag on the local economy as high electric rates drove away thousands of jobs. The Shoreham issue made and broke local political careers, entangled governors and even drew White House concern when President George Bush met with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and urged opening the plant.
When first proposed 32 years ago, the plant was to cost $65 million to $75 million and be finished in 1973. But when completed in the mid-1980's and licensed in 1989, the plant had cost $6.5 billion.
In 1989, Governor Cuomo closed the unpopular plant, giving it to the power authority. In return, Lilco was allowed to recover the costs over 40 years in its billing. So far, Lilco has charged customers $5.6 billion for Shoreham costs and interest.
In one critic's study, Harry Davitian, president of the Entek energy consulting company, projected that customers would pay $14.3 billion more to retire the debt by the year 2030, for a total of $20 billion. Gregory Palast, an economist who directed a Suffolk County investigation of Shoreham, put the cost at $25 billion.
Another utility consultant, James A. Rothschild, said those numbers "are in the ball park."
Most of the projected cost is interest. "When you're looking at Shoreham, you're looking at a mega-pile of interest," Mr. Palast said. "It's a Carl Sagan number -- billions and billions."
Peter Quinn of the Long Island Progressive Coalition, an alliance of environmental, business and civic groups, said the state takeover of some of Lilco's assets -- particularly the Shoreham debt -- amounted to a bailout of Lilco.
"Here's a company that's been ill managed at ratepayers' expense," he said, "and we want the investors to share the debt."
Governor Pataki's appointees on the power authority say they want a fair settlement that will reduce rates, and they warn that an obsession with Shoreham and the Shoreham debt could thwart a solution.
"Much of what happened should not have happened, but we are where we are," the authority's chairman, Frank G. Zarb, said of Lilco's history. Long Island will suffer if it misses this chance to solve its energy crisis, he said.
But decades of resentment against Shoreham are bubbling over. This week, the Suffolk County Legislature will vote on a bipartisan bill calling on Lilco to write down the debt.
"This is all about the Shoreham debt -- the merger is kind of a sideshow," said Ashok Gupta, an analyst for the National Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. "The underlying issue is do we have to pay for Shoreham or not? People are still fighting the old fight. It's like Bosnia; they have long memories."
Could the Shoreham issue scuttle the prospective deal?
"Absolutely," Mr. Sinnreich said. "Any bailout of Lilco on Shoreham is a hurdle to a deal. People are still mad about Shoreham. There is no good answer to the problem -- only better bad answers. We can't make history go away and unspend billions of dollars."
Under the state takeover plan, interest on the Shoreham debt could be cut by refinancing with tax-exempt bonds issued by the power authority -- this would require the largest such bond issue in the nation's history. The basic debt could also be shrunk by forcing Lilco to absorb a loss.
Lilco contends that it already wrote off $1.7 billion in the 1980's, a penalty imposed by state regulators for the company's bad judgment on Shoreham.
But critics say the vast competitive changes under energy deregulation in recent years have prompted other utilities to accept losses on so-called stranded assets like Shoreham. They say the 40-year repayment is not binding, and Lilco should bend with the times.
When Shoreham was conceived, energy use was rising, Long Island was growing and Lilco warned of brownouts and blackouts.
But unforeseen events intervened: the environmental movement that started with Earth Day in 1971, the 1973 oil embargo that fostered conservation and 1979's "China Syndrome" disaster film and the subsequent Three Mile Island meltdown.
Confidence in Lilco's nuclear capability was undermined with the breakdown of conventional diesel engines at Shoreham in 1983 (cynics nicknamed them Snap, Crackle and Pop). And then delays, overruns, double-digit inflation and tougher regulations all pushed up Shoreham's costs.
"Certainly, Lilco bullheadedly pushed Shoreham far longer" than made sense, said a former Public Service Commission chairman, Peter A. Bradford
Shoreham's originators are mostly gone. "This goes back such a long time that many of our executives, myself included, were in grammar school at the time," said Dr. Joseph McDonnell, a Lilco senior vice president. "As you look back, mistakes were made by everyone it touched, both inside the company and in the political arena."
Shoreham still has defenders. William K. Schneider, a steamfitter on its construction who now oversees the property, said "it breaks my heart" that the plant closed. Shaking his head, he said, "I've been involved in two major things in my life -- Vietnam and Shoreham."
And what if Shoreham had been allowed to open? "If Shoreham had been turned on, things would be pretty much the same as they are now," said one energy economist, Charles Komanoff. "Nuclear operating costs, exclusive of construction, are about the same as buying power from the grid, about 3 cents a kilowatt hour. Over all, it's a big fat wash."
The plant is not suitable for conversion to oil or gas, and demolishing it would be a major expense.
Irving Like, a lawyer for the first Shoreham opponents in the 1960's, said, "Some suggested alternative uses are as a monument to man's technological stupidity or as a rest home for all the politicians either elected or defeated because of it."

GRAPHIC: Map of Long Island highlighting Shoreham: The true cost of the Shoreham power plant remains a topic of debate. (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); ETE (ASX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (55%); ENTEK ENERGY LTD (50%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); TAKEOVERS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITY RATES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



375 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Irish President's Decision Not to Run Again Unsettles Politicians

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, March 15

 BODY:
President Mary Robinson's decision not to seek a second seven-year term has thrown Irish politics into turmoil.
Politicians, who face a parliamentary election this year, are now wondering anxiously whom they should back in a presidential election, also to be held this year. 
 Ms. Robinson, 52, who in 1990 became the first woman elected President in the Irish Republic's 74-year history, said on Wednesday that she would not seek a new term and indicated that she would like to be considered for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
While her announcement was not a complete surprise, it has created a new urgency among political leaders, including Prime Minister John Bruton, to start looking for a successor. The main question is whether the candidate for what is largely a ceremonial post should be a person not directly involved in Irish Republic politics or whether there should be competing candidates from Mr. Bruton's Fine Gael party, and from the largest opposition party, Fianna Fail, led by Bertie Ahern.
The nation's largest bookmaker, Paddy Power, has already established John Hume, the prominent moderate Roman Catholic leader in Northern Ireland, as a 4-to-1 favorite. Also mentioned is another northerner, the poet Seamus Heaney, the Nobel Prize winner in literature in 1995.
Although both men were born in the British province, they are eligible to become President under Irish law.
The Irish Times reported from Washington that Mr. Hume was not now considering campaigning. But a poll in The Sunday Independent showed Mr. Hume was first preference of those surveyed.
Mr. Heaney has not commented.
Aides to Mr. Bruton said that he was likely to meet Mr. Hume at the White House in Washington on Monday -- St. Patrick's Day -- and that the presidency would be a likely topic of conversation.
If no prominent outsider comes forward, the political parties will choose from among their own members. Mr. Bruton will decide whether to hold the parliamentary and presidential elections on the same day, in November, or whether to hold the parliamentary election first.
Before the presidential vacancy became certain, Mr. Bruton was believed to favor holding the parliamentary election in June. But if he had a strong presidential candidate to head the ticket, he might hold both elections the same day.
On Thursday he seemed to equivocate, saying the elections should probably be separate, but added that having them on the same day would save millions of dollars.
Political analysts and politicians say Fine Gael is short of strong presidential candidates. Former Prime Minister Garret FitzGerald is not believed to be interested. Peter Sutherland, a former Irish Commissioner at the European Union and head of GATT, the former international trade organization, has not commented on his availability.
Fianna Fail has several possible candidates. Former Prime Minister Albert Reynolds, who gained wide popularity for his peace efforts in Northern Ireland, has indicated that he would like the job, but he has many enemies in his own party. David Andrews, a former Foreign Minister, is expected to announce his candidacy in a few weeks.
Both parties have prominent women who might run. Fianna Fail has a former Justice Minister, Maire Geoghegan-Quinn, and Mary O'Rourke, her party's expert on unemployment and education. Fine Gael has the present Justice Minister, Nora Owen, and a long shot, Frances Fitzgerald, a member of Parliament and former head of the National Women's Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; IRELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); WRITERS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F; ROBINSON, MARY (PRES) BERTIE AHERN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



376 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Administration Proposes Charging for Clearing Ice

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is causing alarm at ports on the Great Lakes by proposing to charge for clearing ice from shipping lanes.
The fee could raise $25 million a year, but the area's lawmakers are mobilizing to head it off in Congress. 
 "Despite the apparent short-term attractiveness of fee-for-service, the economic consequences of an ice-breaking fee would be widespread and severe," Representative James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota, wrote in a letter he is planning to send to the Administration.
Various ports are clogged with ice from December into April. Mr. Oberstar said the fee would force shippers to move grain, coal and iron ore through other routes, "further undermining the regional economy."
But Lawrence Haas of the White House budget office called the proposed fee "prudent management."
The ice-breaking fee could add $45,000 to the cost of a single trip by a lake freighter, said Davis Helberg, the port director for Duluth, Minn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GREAT LAKES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DULUTH, MN, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT LAKES; UNITED STATES (92%); GREAT LAKES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); DULUTH, MN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS; ICE; ICEBREAKERS MARINE SHIPPING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JIM OBERSTAR (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



377 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
Through the Wronger

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
"IT IS WRONG," I wrote in medium dudgeon (as opposed to high dudgeon, in which I would have written, "It is morally corrupt" -- a dudgen or dudgeon is an archaic word for a wood-handled dagger, and nobody knows how it came to mean "a fit of indignation," with its first citation in 1573), and what kind of tangent am I off on? Begin again.
"It is wrong to use tax-exempt money to support political activity," wrote the moralizing vituperator. "It is wronger for a lawyer paid by the people to use the claim of 'executive privilege.' " 
 "Say it ain't so!" writes Kenneth Palmer of Kannapolis, N.C. "Our search of the American Heritage Dictionary failed to turn up such a word. . . . One of us is wrong."
The question is: Should it be more wrong or wronger? In his "Syntactic Phenomena of English," which I carry around in my pocket, Prof. James McCawley of the University of Chicago department of linguistics writes that comparatives are formed with "long adjectives and adverbs generally demanding more and short ones demanding -er, subject to some exceptions such as more right and more wrong that are preferred to righter and wronger." Robert Burchfield's edition of Fowler's Modern English Usage agrees.
Gee. Even E. Ward Gilman, editor of Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of English Usage, who is no prescriptivist, holds that "although such writers as George Bernard Shaw used wronger, it is an infrequent use of the comparative of wrong." He has on file a New York Times headline from 1987 -- "Longer and Wronger" -- but that was apparently chosen because of the rhyme.
The Oxford English Dictionary offers me no succor; the only use of wronger is as a noun, "one who wrongs another," its first use in 1449 as "Defenders agens wrongers and diffamers of the . . . wickid world," now a self-description of the White House special counsel Lanny Davis.
I could claim that more wrong, to my ear, is not as strong a comparative as wronger, but as Richard Nixon never said, that would be wronger. I erred, Mr. Palmer, and would now rather be more right than President.
 
Covering Charlie
In the scandal some have given the dysphemistic headline "The Asian Connection" (based on the 1971 movie "The French Connection"), which other journalists slug "Lippogate" or "Indogate" (based on the Lippo Banking group in Indonesia), and which the most euphemistic call "the campaign fund-raising mess," one unfamiliar character keeps popping up: an entrepreneur in Little Rock whose Chinese restaurant was frequented by Gov. Bill Clinton.
His name is variously reported as Charlie Trie, Charles Yah Lin Trie and plain Yah Lin Trie. Reporters are uncomfortable with the nickname Charlie, as it seems to be an ethnic half-slur based on the title character in the Charlie Chan movie series of 1926 to 1944. Hence, the discordant Charles is fixed at the beginning of a Chinese name, which can't be right.
We may be reading a lot about Mr. Trie in coming months, because he was a big fund-raiser who took an arms dealer from Beijing into the White House to see Mr. Clinton at a "coffee" that some have suggested might have been related to campaign fund-raising. How to refer to Mr. Trie in first reference?
To solve this linguistic puzzle, I obtained a photocopy of a letter he wrote in Chinese to a prospective client or donor. The signature is in Chinese, and underneath its characters is the translation, presumably written by the man himself: "Yah Lin 'Charlie' Trie." He treats his English appellation as a nickname, not to be escalated to be a formal part of his name, and -- on the theory that a person is the best judge of his own name -- that's how to refer to him. Drop the Charles; infix Charlie.
 
Dissing Dysfunction
Hardly anybody says "I can't stand him" anymore. Nor do we hear "She makes my skin crawl" or "I despise him with every fiber of my being." Instead, the same feeling is expressed in the coolly clinical "We have a dysfunctional relationship."
When the pseudonymous Mom Kallikak goes off on a toot and Pop tries to get his clutches on the cleaning lady, and as Junior blames parental neglect and sibling ribaldry for his drug-cultural descent, molested Sis sells the story to a publisher as "the saga of a dysfunctional family."
The prefix dys- is always bad news. From Greek, Gothic, Old English, Indo-European, Sanskrit, any root you like -- a dys- is "bad, difficult, impaired," the opposite of the prefix eu-, which always provides a nice day. Doctors picked up dys- in 1916 and married it to function, and then sociologists and psychologists glommed onto it in a big way.
The dysfunctional family was a coinage of the psychiatric social worker Virginia M. Satir in her book "Conjoint Family Therapy" (1964). It became such a cliche that when Wendy Kaminer wanted to parody Thomas A. Harris's book "I'm O.K., You're O.K." (1967), she titled her book "I'm Dysfunctional, You're Dysfunctional" (1992).
Politics was next. John Broder, investigating the archaic modernization at the Internal Revenue Service, used the vogue word to describe many of the agency's computers.
And on NBC's "Meet the Press" last month, the District of Columbia's Mayor, Marion Barry, wedded the economist's 1932 structural unemployment to the dysfunctional family to come up with the reason D.C. government does not work: it is "structurally dysfunctional."
As Bert Lance might now say, "If it ain't dysfunctional, don't fix it."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY TERRY ALLEN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (77%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (77%); ARKANSAS, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LINGUISTICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; TRIE, YAH LIN BILL CLINTON (57%); RICHARD NIXON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



378 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2231 words

HEADLINE: Communities And Police Strengthen Local Bonds

BYLINE: By RAMIN P. JALESHGARI 

 BODY:
ON Officer Brett Carlson's beat, there are no backroads of a poor neighborhood. There are no abandoned cars or graffiti-ridden walls. Officer Carlson patrols Strathmore Ridge, a standard, suburban condo complexwith six-to-eight unit dwellings, lawns, entrance gates and playgrounds.
Built in the 1960's, the community offered affordable dwellings for retirees and young families. But within the last few years it has provided something different: in this wooded section of Ridge, drug pushers and buyers operate under a cloak of near-invisibility. 
 Overrun by criminal activity, the residential area became a community of organized fear. Often, residents failed to notice drug deals until after they happened, so police responding to 911 calls arrived too late. Strathmore Ridge worsened, until Officer Carlson and his Sixth Police Precinct Community Oriented Police Enforcement unit stepped in.
The task force, called COPE in Suffolk County and Problem Oriented Policing in Nassau, is a method of law enforcement that takes officers out of cars and places them in long-term, one-on-one relationships with the local population. Rather than cruising the streets and answering 911 calls, COPE officers work with the public to research crimes or potential crimes and then apply extended intervention.
"COPE complements the daily activities of the various departments in a precinct and vice versa," said Capt. Robert Moore, former leader of the Sixth Precinct's two COPE units. "Sector cars are absolutely crucial to answer 911 calls, but, once the emergency has been alleviated, they move on; they respond rather than prevent. COPE units are able to spend time attacking crises in depth, trying to avert future problems."
COPE solutions might include regular patrols by car, foot or bike, educational seminars for residents, using plainclothes officers to observe a questionable location or organizing responses from other departments in the precinct like the narcotics or detective bureaus.
"Suffolk is one of the 50 largest police districts in the country," said Police Commissioner John Gallagher, "and the Island as a whole is one of the densest population areas in the state, outside of New York City. As such, we are in need of multiple strategy policing; that's why COPE is so necessary."
COPE was started under the Public Safety Partnership and Community Policing Act of 1994. The law provided money to put more officers on the nation's streets; stipulating they be in a community oriented capacity. Under two headings, COPS FAST for smaller areas and COPS AHEAD for larger, municipal precincts were given financing to hire more police officers. Within the Sixth Precinct, which covers the biggest section of Suffolk County -- from the Smithaven Mall to the Riverhead Town line and from the Long Island Rail Road tracks south of the expressway to Long Island Sound -- 65 officers were hired with $4.875of Federal funds. In 1995, with $1.875 million, 25 more officers were hired, and another 25 were hired in 1996 at the same amount. For 1997, 38 more officers have been requested.
In most precincts there are two units of COPE officers consisting of 10 or more individuals and operating day/night shifts. For Strathmore Ridge, the additional police manpower has made a difference.
"There were numerous disturbance calls through the front desk and 911 from Strathmore Ridge, but most responses didn't result in arrests," said Officer Carlson, who has been the main liaison for the homeowners in the development. "These crimes were drug-related and a drug deal is by its nature a fast transaction. Usually the exchange had already taken place before the sector car arrived. Because of these factors, and desperate requests from the residents, COPE stepped in and began preliminary canvassing of the area."
Their research showed that, during the 1980's, housing prices in Strathmore Ridge had, like all of Long Island, risen dramatically. Later, the early 1990's economic recession found homeowners paying high interest on high mortgages they could ill afford.
Many attempted to sell their homes, but could not earn back their expenditures. The result was that a number of owners rented their condos and sought cheaper dwellings elsewhere. Some homes were subject to foreclosure and others complete abandonment.
The surplus of available housing at Strathmore Ridge attracted the attention of the County Department of Social Services. Purchasing foreclosure properties outright or renting from absentee landlords, the agency placed clients, many of them homeless ex-convicts, into the complex.
"I lived in Strathmore Ridge for many years," said Doris Ann Brennan, vice president of the Strathmore Ridge Homeowners Association. "Up until the last few, I never felt that I couldn't go out alone. Then, between the strange cars coming in and out to buy drugs, the break-ins and vandalism, I became afraid to even walk my dog."
A Police Department survey indicated that criminal disturbance in Strathmore Ridge was disproportionately high -- increasing steadily from 1994 to 1996.
"The community became so desperate, we called the commander of the Sixth Precinct, Inspector Robillotto; he referred us to the COPE unit," said Chris Sosik, president of the Ridge Civic Association, "Brett came down and spoke to us. Together we formulated a plan where we worked with the police to take back our community."
The plan they put together initially included increased police pressure in the neighborhood, with foot and bicycle patrols into inaccessible woods and back lots. Plainclothes officers were stationed strategically to observe drug transactions and make arrests. The next step was educating residents.
"We sent officers to Ridge Civic Association meetings who helped organize neighborhood watches and taught crime prevention seminars," said Sgt. Tom Brady, team leader of COPE Unit 1. "On the more extreme side, we worked with the narcotics bureau to organize raids when necessary."
No aspect of the Strathmore Ridge cleanup was too small for the unit's attention. Officers advised residents on everything from obtaining fencing to proper lighting to removing trees and shrubs -- ideal covers for illicit activity. Within a year, children reappeared at the complex's playground.
"A year ago we would see drug paraphernalia all over the ground, related to everything from marijuana to crack cocaine." said John Polsunas, president of the Strathmore Ridge Homeowners Association. Mr. Polsunas has lived in the development since it first opened more than 20 years ago. "But, when COPE showed up, the drug culture went underground."
In Setauket, the precinct's COPE Unit 2 addressed a different kind of residential problem: trucks illegally making use of residential routes. "We got a complaint from a Setauket woman who said that commercial vehicles were using Upper Sheep Pasture as a short cut to Terminal Road -- an industrial area," said the team's sergeant, Mark Maieli.
"On the surface this seems like a simple traffic problem, but it was much more than that. Upper Sheep Pasture is a country road, very residential. Yards abut narrow streets and there are children everywhere."
More than 200 commercial vehicles were roaring through the area in a single day. The approved route for high load vehicles is twice as long and forces trucks to make use of the traffic-light laden Nesconset Highway (State Route 347.)
The Setauket woman, a mother of six, made initial complaints to the precinct. "Sector cars would arrive promptly," she said, "but not always during high traffic periods. Also, one ticket to one truck doesn't make a difference."
She finally called COPE for help. "The kids couldn't go out to play because of the noise and also because they were afraid," she said, "If a ball or toy flew into the street, the constant truck flow made it dangerous for them to retrieve it."
Determining the source of the problem was the first item on Sergeant Maieli's agenda. Following culprits to their location, he found they were loading and unloading materials at businesses on Terminal Road. The next step was to give business owners warnings.
"I approached business owners suggesting they put the word out on their CB's to the truckers that Upper Sheep Pasture was off-limits and we were going to start cracking down," said Sergeant Maieli. "It's a better use of police time and taxpayer money -- to put in an afternoon getting people to stop breaking the law rather than spending days enforcing it."
Within two days of the warnings, the sergeant and three patrol cars set up road blocks at each end of Upper Sheep Pasture. Only two trucks came through.
Sean Grennan, a criminal-justice professor at C. W. Post,. likes the idea of community-oriented policing but questions if it is being administered most effectively on Long Island.
"A lot of officers would like to see their COPE counterparts on the streets instead of attending civic meetings and doing school talks," said Dr. Grennan, a retired New York City homicide detective. "There's a disparity in the fact that the officers that residents see at special assemblies are not likely to be the ones that will answer their 911 calls."
"When I was on the force," said Dr. Grennan, "we created satellite stations in high-risk neighborhoods, from which a full team of officers operated. We had foot patrol, anticrime, narcotics and detective units. It was like a mini-police force, and people got to know and trust us because we were always there -- not because we came to conferences. They had the satisfaction of seeing us where they needed us most -- on the street."
Commissioner Gallagher said that he knew community oriented policing was not perfect but believed that most officers felt better about their job when they interact with the community on a positive level. He also pointed out that COPE officers do answer 911 calls when necessary and always respond to calls for back-up.
Additionally, every COPE unit in the county was taken off scheduled duties to respond to the crash of Trans World Airlines Flight 800.
While there are no quantitative figures proving the effectiveness of COPE-type units, crime has decreased in Suffolk, a fact Commissioner Gallagher says is due in large part to the increased response that community-oriented policing makes possible. The Sixth Precinct, for example, achieved the highest number of driving under the influence arrests in the county -- second only to the highway patrol.
"I think this achievement has a lot to do with the precinct's COPE unit," said Commissioner Gallagher. "They have the luxury to study charts and trends of DWI accidents, their patterns, locations, etc., and then station themselves at critical sites -- all because they are not constantly answering 911 calls."
In Brentwood, a Third Precinct COPE Officer, Wanda Levista, works at solving local problems both during and after work. One of the few Spanish-speaking officers in her department, Officer Levista was assigned to COPE after her superiors noticed that, as a sector officer, she was constantly requested for back-up to calls involving Hispanic individuals.
"I was always answering domestic disturbances involving Hispanic people or asked to interview non-English speakers taken into custody after committing a crime," said Officer Levista, who has been on the force for nine years. "I still do some of that, but I also teach Spanish-speaking immigrants about their rights, counsel drug prevention and help residents understand that, unlike in some of their native countries, the police are not 'out to get them.' "
"Some of the Brentwood Hispanic population are illegal aliens and are fearful of the police," said Miriam Garcia, executive director of Adelante, a cultural/civic association that provides services from housing for the homeless to scholarships to health screenings for the Hispanic community. "Officer Levista has tried particularly hard to let them know that the police are not immigration officials."
Last Christmas, Officer Levista led a precinct-wide drive to raise funds for a needy family from St. Ann's Roman Catholic Church in Brentwood. Each officer donated $5, and $1,500 was raised.
"The COPE unit, and Officer Levista in particular, have been very good to us," said the Rev. Tom St. Pierre, co-pastor of St. Ann's. "Wanda comes to masses to talk to parishioners about special programs her unit is sponsoring." While off-duty, Officer Levista attends Brentwood Lions meetings -- she says it's another "in" into the community.
Community Oriented Policing runs in the Levista family. Her husband, Tony, is a COPE officer with the First Precinct, which includes the higher crime areas of Wyandanch and North Amityville. He patrols residential neighborhoods in Babylon with his partner, Vincent Callahan. There, the two officers are involved in preventing robberies and attempting to close down a local crack house.
"People are much more responsive to me as a COPE officer than when I was in a sector car," Officer Tony Levista said. "There's more trust there because I'm usually not dealing with them in a high-stress environment when things aren't going well. Now, I don't have to rush off and do other things so I can take time to speak with them on human basis. I think they really appreciate that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officers Bill McParlin, left, and Steve DeSantis on patrol. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times); At the United Studios of Self-Defense in Miller Place, Officer Eddie Troiano shows children a kit with examples of drugs. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); CRIME PREVENTION (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); 

PERSON: JALESHGARI, RAMIN P

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997



379 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Gilt-Edged Hotel for Investors And Guests

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRUSH 

 BODY:
FOR $490 before tax, you can spend a night in the least expensive double room at the Four Seasons Hotel in Manhattan. Pretty pricey, true, but you can get your suit pressed in one hour, sleep on a custom-made mattress and enjoy countless other luxuries. After all, this is the Four Seasons, rivaled for poshness only by the Ritz-Carlton and maybe a few other chains. At some of its resorts, sun-baking guests can even get a personal water spritzing once an hour.
But now that the Four Seasons company, based in Toronto, is selling its stock here -- it was listed on the Big Board last month -- you might want to spend that $490 on the 19 or so shares you would get at Friday's closing price of $25.25. While the company would suffer in an economic downturn, just as other peddlers of luxury would do, the shares look very attractive. But be aware of one thing: like the hotelier's rooms, the equity is far from cheap. 
 Four Seasons Hotels has come a long way. Like a lot of real estate companies in the early 1990's, it was burdened by high debt and occasional losses. (It also used some clever accounting techniques that put its performance in the best possible light.) But over the last three years, it has sold off its stake in properties in London; Toronto; Santa Barbara, Calif., and elsewhere, and turned itself into a relatively debt-free manager of properties owned by others.
To be sure, Four Seasons still holds minority interests in many of the hotels it runs. But the new emphasis on management means the company will most likely enjoy a better and more steady return on its investments, analysts say.
"They have gone from being a company with a huge amount of capital earning low returns to a company with a fraction of that capital earning high returns," said Joe Little, a portfolio manager for Duncan Ross Associates, which owns Four Seasons shares and is based in Vancouver, British Columbia. "And that is what the company will look like going forward."
THE company's well-known name is also an asset, and not just because it translates into above-average occupancy and room rates. The brand name helps the firm negotiate favorable long-term management contracts, said Neil Barsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, which helped underwrite Four Seasons in its United States offering. While the typical hotel management contract lasts 5 to 10 years, the average Four Seasons deal runs for 50 years, he said.
(Under its agreements, Four Seasons normally gets about 3 percent of gross revenue and in some cases an "incentive fee" of 5 percent to 20 percent of operating profits.)
The industry's prospects are bright, too. Luxury hotel bookings are up because of solid economic growth. What's more, many aging baby boomers are choosing better lodging, and a trend toward shorter vacations means that people are willing to spend more per night on accommodations.
On the supply side, few new luxury hotels are going up in the United States because it costs at least 30 percent more to build them than to buy them. Stephen Rushmore of HVS International, a consulting firm in Mineola, L.I., said that while luxury hotels will soon open in Asia and the Middle East, it will be several years before new ones open here. That means "a good long run for five-star hotels" now in operation, he said.
This demand-supply imbalance allowed luxury hotels here to increase room rates by 7 percent in 1996, said Frank Nardozza, the director for the national hospitality industry at KPMG Peat Marwick. He expects domestic rates to rise by at least 5 percent to 7 percent annually over the next two years. "In places like London, Paris, Hong Kong and other gateway destinations, there have been double-digit growth rates," he added.
If Four Seasons has its way, however, its earnings growth will not depend only on these economic conditions. The company, which now owns or manages 39 properties, has an ambitious plan to take on three to five new management contracts annually over the next several years. Because the company is small -- 1996 revenues were just $121 million -- each new contract may have a big impact on earnings, Mr. Barsky said.
In 1997, for example, Four Seasons will bring its version of luxury to Atlanta; Goa, India; Paris (the Hotel George V), and Bali. In 1998 it will start managing hotels or resorts in Cairo; Caracas, Venezuela; Las Vegas, Nev., and Scottsdale, Ariz.
"Within two years, George V and the Four Seasons Las Vegas alone will generate $7 million a year in management fees," Mr. Little said.
Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, who bought a 25 percent stake in the company in 1994 when it was on the ropes, has been solidly behind the company's expansion plan. Using his own funds, Prince Walid often provides a good chunk of the money needed to either buy or build a luxury hotel, attracting other investors, and then usually arranging for Four Seasons to manage the property. Prince Walid has a stake in properties to be run by Four Seasons in Cairo and Scottsdale, for example, and he owns outright the George V.
Unfortunately, many Wall Streeters agree that Four Seasons is strong, a belief that is reflected in its stock price. Since the start of last year, for example, the Canadian shares are up 90 percent. And at Friday's close, the new American stock was trading at 20 times next year's estimated earnings, at the upper end of the 15 percent to 20 percent by which many analysts believe the company's annual earnings will grow. (The Canadian and American stocks are not exchangeable, although both are of the same class of common share.)
Although some fans of the Four Seasons think its famed name should add a premium to its stock, many investors believe that shares are fully valued when they trade at multiples that are at or above their earnings-growth rates.
"I might be accumulating at this price, but I would not be aggressively picking up the stock," said Barbara Belch, a portfolio manager at Laketon Investment Management in Edmonton, Alberta. Ms. Belch is one of the analysts who believes that earnings may grow at 15 percent to 20 percent a year.
Moreover, three important management contracts are up for renewal within the next several years -- in Hong Kong; Taipei, Taiwan, and Bangkok, Thailand. No one is suggesting that Four Seasons will lose them, but the expirations point up a broader danger in the company's new role as manager: If a hotel's owners don't get the results they want from Four Seasons -- if its lavish approach, say, just is not working -- they may jettison the company. Management contracts often have cancellation clauses that take effect when business is bad.
And just as the hotelier's small size means that one new management contract may greatly improve earnings, one lost contract can similarly hurt earnings.
Also, an economic downturn would certainly cut into bookings at luxury hotels. While Four Seasons is diversified, with properties in 16 countries, any sharp regional decline would reduce its earnings.
And keep in mind that, while Four Seasons Hotels rolls out the red carpet for guests, it may be less hospitable to activist shareholders: Isadore Sharp, the company's chairman and co-founder, has locked up 67 percent of the voting power in his 15 percent of the company's shares.
 
Want Your Daiquiris Really Fresh?
How do high-end hotels, like the Four Seasons, try to lure you into the lap of luxury? Here is a sampling of their sometimes-odd efforts:

* Hotel Inter-Continental, London. The master bed of the Royal Suite can accommodate 13 people.
 
* Ritz-Carlton, Cancun, Mexico. It offers 120 varieties of tequila, served by a staff that takes a weeklong course in the liquor.
 
* Victoria Jungfrau Grand Hotel, Interlaken, Switzerland. Guests have free use of a Jaguar, BMW or Range Rover for a day.
 
* Ritz-Carlton, St. Thomas, V.I. Daiquiris are made from mangoes and bananas plucked from the hotel's trees shortly before preparation.
 
* Hyatt Regency Cerromar, Dorado, P.R. At 1,776 feet -- 526 feet longer than the Empire State Building is high -- its freshwater swimming pool is the world's longest.
 
* Millenium Hilton, New York. It not only has one of the city's few hotel indoor swimming pools, but its locker room offers guests a "suitmate" machine that dries swimsuits in seven seconds.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 16 about investing in Four Seasons Hotels misstated the number of hotels managed by the company worldwide. It is 38, not 39. The article also referred incorrectly to the relationship between the company shares that trade in Canada and those that trade in the United States. The shares are exchangeable.
The article also misstated the role of Isadore Sharp, the company's chairman,in starting the company. He was the founder, not a co-founder.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Four Seasons lobby in New York. Few rivals match the company for luxury. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A Fair Start" shows the dialy closes for Four Seasons Hotels stock (symbol: FS) since the Stock began trading in the U.S. in February. Friday's close: $25.25. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (77%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS LTD FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (77%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); MATTRESSES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: BRUSH, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



380 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: Peer Pressure

BYLINE: By Steven R. Weisman; Steven R. Weisman, who writes editorials for The New York Times, was the paper's Tokyo bureau chief from 1989 to 1992.

 BODY:

Inside the Kaisha
 Demystifying Japanese Business Behavior.
 By Noboru Yoshimura and Philip Anderson.
 288 pp. Boston:
 Harvard Business School Press. $24.95.
 
 An Empire of Schools
 Japan's Universities and the Molding
 of a National Power Elite.
 By Robert L. Cutts.
 268 pp. Armonk, N.Y.:
 An East Gate Book/M. E. Sharpe. $29.95. 
 Like their counterparts across the corporate landscape of Japan, the hard-working employees of Shiseido, the nation's biggest cosmetics company, live in a world of slogans. Shiseido's motto is "For beautiful human life." Seminars for middle managers focus on topics like "Body and Soul" and "Beauty and Truth." These catch phrases may perplex the outsider, but according to the authors of "Inside the Kaisha" they are actually a method of enforcing strict standards of performance. When combined with other subtle forms of coercion, they convey the message that employees will be ostracized if they fail to devote themselves to the good of the corporation.
Though the Japanese economy is no longer riding as high as a few years ago, American companies continue to be fascinated by the success of the Japanese corporation, or kaisha, in achieving team spirit. Noboru Yoshimura, a vice president of Bankers Trust, Tokyo, and Philip Anderson, who teaches at the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth, provide a healthy antidote to much of the mumbo jumbo about Japanese business practices perpetrated by journalists, businesspeople and management consultants. Basing their findings on hundreds of hours of interviews with Japanese middle managers, they argue that the Japanese company is hardly a place of harmony, egalitarianism, farsighted leadership and benevolent concern for workers. Rather, it abounds with social control, internal conflicts, shortsighted thinking, rigid and dominating hierarchies and exploited labor.
"Inside the Kaisha" is intended mainly as a guide for Americans working for or negotiating with a Japanese company. Its writing is dry and bloodless, but it has a certain understated passion reflecting the authors' awareness that they are demolishing stereotypes.
Both "Inside the Kaisha" and "An Empire of Schools," by Robert L. Cutts, which deals with the leading Japanese institution of higher learning, the University of Tokyo, are part of what has come to be called the revisionist school of Japanese studies. Until the last decade or so, books about contemporary Japanese society tended to stress its egalitarian and democratic aspects. Now the emphasis is more on Japan's unstated system of social engineering and elitism.
Mr. Yoshimura and Mr. Anderson focus on Japan's legendary "salaryman" system, and their portrait will be familiar to students of Japan. But they take it further than most other commentators, describing how the fear of embarrassment and letting down the group inspires hard work even as it stifles innovation and initiative. They also challenge the widely accepted notion that the Japanese regard themselves as happy and productive.
Most everyone knows, for example, that the Japanese work long hours and attend corporate outings on weekends. "Does this reflect the fabled company loyalty of the Japanese worker?" Mr. Yoshimura and Mr. Anderson ask. "Hardly; although such activities are formally voluntary, everyone knows that failure to participate is socially unacceptable. Only a complete idiot would make such a blunder. . . . Deviation from the appropriate model is accompanied by penalties that most Japanese are unwilling to endure." It is anxiety that compels employees to work even when sick, or during a child's graduation. Many American companies have tried to borrow the notion of team spirit from Japan without realizing the system of social controls at work underneath the surface.
Another insight that may surprise readers is that Japanese workers would rather conform to accepted procedures than achieve a favorable outcome. This trait has been remarked on before, most notably by historians of World War II, who found that the Japanese military continued to make the same mistake over and over again rather than deviate from accepted strategies. Too much can be made of the point, of course. The Japanese have adjusted brilliantly to crises, as they did during the oil shocks of the 1970's. But to a remarkable extent, many Japanese companies today prefer to continue in their niches than to beat the competition by trying something new.
Still another cliche blasted by Mr. Anderson and Mr. Yoshimura is that Japanese businesses pursue long-term investment strategies, not the short-term quarterly profits demanded by shareholders in the United States. When the Japanese economy was booming, this notion was the accepted wisdom. In fact, the authors point out, Japanese companies would not be in so much trouble in this current downturn if they had been more careful about speculating during the real-estate and stock-market booms of the 1980's.
If there is one institution that instills the spirit of social pressure outlined by "Inside the Kaisha," it is the University of Tokyo. As described by Mr. Cutts, a freelance journalist who writes frequently on Asia, the school is an "ivory basement," a place of little intellectual inquiry, and it is driving the entire country to ruin. It suffers from an ossified faculty structure and from students who arrive exhausted after their grueling studies in high school. "The system of higher education is going increasingly awry," Mr. Cutts says. "It is failing in providing society with the enlightenment, knowledge and energy it will need to meet internal and external hazards that loom."
Much of "An Empire of Schools" is written in that sort of overheated style, and Mr. Cutts has a habit of making sweeping generalizations without backing them up with evidence. Moreover, his descriptions of the university are drawn almost entirely from secondary sources: nowhere is there much of a feel of what it is like to be at the school or even to wander through its buildings and talk with its students and teachers. Without any kind of personal leavening, "An Empire of Schools" comes across as a diatribe reinforcing the stereotype of the Japanese as soulless automatons. Mr. Yoshimura and Mr. Anderson offer a far more persuasive picture of a people caught up in a system that has brought them success -- and a lot of problems to go with it.
With the Kunsthaus on Lake Lucerne being replaced by a new Culture and Congress Center and Hotel Schweizerhof Hall undergoing reconstruction, many concerts, under the theme "Nostalgia, a Retrospective," are taking place in the Von Moos Steel Hall in nearby Emmenbrucke. Schubert's complete piano sonatas will be played by Andras Schiff, and the violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter devotes an Aug. 27 recital to Brahms. On Aug. 25, the tenor and conductor Peter Schreier sings Schubert's "Schwanen gesang," and on Aug. 27 he conducts the C. P. E. Bach Orchestra of Berlin and the Lucerne Festival Chorus in Schubert's Mass No. 5 in A flat major.
Celebrating his 80th year on Aug. 31, Rudolf Baumgartner conducts the Lucerne Festival Strings in works by Vivaldi, Penderecki and Bruckner, then adds Bach's "Musikalisches Opfer" and Violin Concerto in A Minor on Sept. 6. The London Mozart Players and the soprano Edith Mathis offer serenades at the Lions Monument, and Mendelssohn is remembered with his "Midsummer Night's Dream" Suite and Fourth Symphony, "Italian," on Aug. 31, in a performance by the Berlin Philharmonic and the Slovakian Philharmonic Chorus, conducted by Claudio Abbado.
On Aug. 23, a study of works by the composer-in-residence Wolfgang Rihm includes the premiere of his chamber opera "Jakob Lenz," and on Sept. 6 the Arditti Quartet offers an all-Rihm program.
Charles Dutoit conducts the Montreal Symphony in Debussy's "Images" and Ravel's "Bolero," and Martha Argerich plays Liszt's Second Piano Concerto. The nostalgia theme is prevalent in works by the American composers Roy Harris, Samuel Barber and George Gershwin with Andrew Litton conducting the Dallas Symphony.
Carlo Maria Giulini closes the festival, leading the Vienna Philharmonic in Schubert's Fourth Symphony and Brahms's Second Symphony.
Tickets: $14 to $122.
Box Office: International Festival of Music Lucerne, P. O. Box 3842, CH-6002 Lucerne, Switzerland; fax 41-210 94 64.
 
Turkey
 
Istanbul International Festival
June 15 to July 8
For centuries Istanbul has been a bridge between Europe and Asia, and its 25th festival presents four Turkish premieres of European works.
On July 1 the BBC Symphony and Chorus under Leonard Slatkin play Elgar's "Dream of Gerontius" and on July 2 Walton's "Belshazzar's Feast," both for the first time in Turkey. Marking the 125th birthday of the English composer Ralph Vaughan Williams, Mr. Slatkin offers "The Lark Ascending" along with Britten's Sinfonia da Requiem and Second Symphony on July 3.
The third Turkish premiere, "A Venetian Coronation" by the 16th-century Italian composer Giovanni Gabrieli, takes place on June 25, and the fourth premiere, "Mass With Instrumental Music" by the 16th-century Spanish composer Cristobal de Morales, is heard on June 26. Both are played by the Gabrieli Consort and Players, directed by Paul McCreesh.
Wolfgang Sawallisch conducts the Royal Concertgebouw in Brahms's Fourth Symphony and Richard Strauss's "Don Quixote" on June 19 and Hindemith's Symphonic Metamorphoses, Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto, with Frank Peter Zimmermann as soloist, and Beethoven's Seventh Symphony on June 20. The four hands of Katia and Marielle Labeque perform Mozart's Piano Sonata in F major and the Debussy nocturnes "Nuages" and "Fetes" on June 25. Peter Schreier leads the Academica Salzburg with Alexander Janiczek, violinist, and Till Fellner, pianist, in two all-Schubert concerts on June 17 and 18.
More Schubert and Brahms is played by the Allegri String Quartet, with James Champbell as soloist in Schubert's Arpeggione for Clarinet and String Quartet and Brahms's Clarinet Quintet in B minor on June 23, and the Accademia Bizantina offers a mixture of early music, Vivaldi, Biagio Marini and Handel, with the contemporary composer Luciano Berio's "Sequenze VIII for Violin," with Francesco D'Orazio, soloist, on June 20.
The Chamber Orchestra of the Kremlin plays Rossini, Stravinsky, Stamitz and Tchaikovsky, and the violinist Gidon Kremer performs "Le Grand Tango -- Homage to Piazzola."
The King's Singers combine works by Purcell and the 15th-century Flemish composer Adrian Willaert with those by the contemporary Gyorgy Ligeti, including "Two Dreams and Little Bat," "A Long, Sad Tale" and "The Lobster Quadrille."
Tickets: $15 to $60.
Box office: International Istanbul Music Festival, c/o Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts, Istiklal Caddesi 146, Luvr Apt., Beyoglu-80070 Istanbul, Turkey; fax 90 212 249 56 67.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A book review on March 16 about "Inside the Kaisha: Demystifying Japanese Business Behavior," by Noboru Yoshimura and Philip Anderson, included the book's misstatement of the "slogan of the year" of Shiseido, a cosmetics maker. The actual slogan is "Celebrate the past. But embrace the future with change," not "For beautiful human life."
A picture credit is omitted on page 14 of the Travel section today with an article about jazz festivals in Eu rope. The picture, of Joshua Red man, a saxophonist, is by Jack Var toogian.
Another picture, on page 18 with a listing of music festivals in Europe, carries an incorrect credit. The pic ture, of patrons at the Aldeburgh Festival, is by Jonathan Player.
A report on music festivals in Europe on March 16 referred incorrectly to the scheduled performance of an unfinished opera by Schubert, "Der Graf von Gleichen." Its world premiere was at the University of Cincinnati in 1994; the performance at the festival on July 12 will not be the first.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Festival Chorus performing at Worcester Cathedral. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. 13); The Snape Maltings Concert Hall, site of the 50th Aldeburgh Festival of Music. Drumming in the street at the Edinburgh International Festival. (Photographs by Ken Paterson, for The New York Times)(pg. 18); Esa-Pekka Salonen will be a conductor at the Helsinki Festival. (Steve J. Sherman)(pg. 20); The theater at the Choregies d'Orange festival, which begins July 6. (Brigitte Enguerand, for The New York Times); Verdi's "Aida" will be offered at the 20,000-seat Arena di Verona in July and August. (Gianfranco Fainello/Ente Lirico Arena di Verona)(pg. 22); Gidon Kremer, the violinist, will give an all-Schubert recital in Monaco. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 24); Matti Salminen, right, and Esa Ruuttunen, in "Flying Dutchman." (Heikki Saukkomaa/Lehtikuva Oy); The State Chamber Orchestra Zilino at the Bratislava Music Festival, which starts on Sept. 26. (Peter Rigaud/Anzenberger Agentur, for The New York Times); Bella Davidovich will play at the Verbier, Switzerland, Festival. (Stephanie Berger)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: ReviewList

TITLE: INSIDE THE KAISHA (BOOK); EMPIRE OF SCHOOLS, AN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (75%); EUROPE (70%); FINLAND (70%); MONACO (59%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VALAIS, SWITZERLAND (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL POWER COGEN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; ; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (75%); EUROPE (70%); FINLAND (70%); MONACO (59%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VALAIS, SWITZERLAND (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWSMUSIC; FESTIVALS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); LITERATURE (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); COSMETICS (71%); TOILETRIES MFG (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; YOSHIMURA, NOBORU; ANDERSON, PHILIP; CUTTS, ROBERT LKIDD, VERNON PHILIP WARREN ANDERSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



381 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Rate Cut Questions

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki has offered a set of bold changes that he says will lead to deep reductions in New Yorkers' electric bills, which are the highest in the continental United States.
But consumer advocates and industry analysts contend that, while large businesses may see deep cuts in their electric rates, most residential customers are unlikely to see significant savings for many years. And even if the administration achieves all the savings it has outlined, the price that New Yorkers pay to turn on their lights will remain far above the national average. 
 "Getting 10 percent across-the-board reductions, in my view, is extremely unlikely," said Ashok Gupta, an economist with the Natural Resources Defense Council who is closely following the overhaul of the industry. "People are confusing competition with lowering rates, and they're two different things."
State officials base their hopes for lower rates on three major initiatives: First, they plan to simply order utilities to cut costs and drop prices over the next five years. Second, they want to help utilities borrow billions of dollars at low interest rates to refinance old debts and buy out over-priced energy contracts, passing on the savings to consumers. And third, they intend to replace the current system of utility monopolies with competition, believing that will lead to lower prices.
That combination, administration officials say, should lower residential rates 10 percent or more.
But many independent experts said the same factors that led to today's high electric rates will continue to hinder efforts to lower them. And it appears likely that, due to market factors and proposed state policies, any savings will largely benefit big commercial customers rather than residential users.
"There are a lot of reasons to doubt whether this wonderful new market we're supposed to be getting will actually save ordinary New Yorkers much money," said Susan Weinstock, who analyzes state policies for the American Association of Retired Persons, in Washington.
A milestone in the Governor's plan to overhaul the electric industry was reached Thursday, as the staff of the state's Public Service Commission and Consolidated Edison agreed on a restructuring of the giant utility. The pact, expected to set the tone for a revamping of all seven of the state's power companies, would break Con Edison into separate power generating, retailing and distribution companies, under a single holding company, and would require the distribution arm to deliver electricity sold by competing companies.
The accord would also lower electric rates for manufacturers by 25 percent over five years, by 10 percent for other large commercial users like hospitals or department stores, and 3.3 percent for residences and small businesses. Commission officials said they planned to apply the same formula statewide, which has brought loud protests from consumer groups, and from Democrats in state government.
Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki, said the Governor had not taken a position on the pact, which must still be voted on by the commission. Further, she said, complaining about the amount of savings missed the larger point.
"This is the first time that there is a reversal, cutting rates, not increasing rates," she said. "At least this Governor has taken an interest in the process, instead of the historical trend of just letting them keep raising rates. This may not be enough, but at least it's a first step."
Business executives insist that favoring industry is a matter of economic survival, because employers are lured from New York to states with cheap power. And even if the savings in the Con Edison deal were spread evenly, they would average only about 5 percent, analysts say.
Nationally, several states are giving consumers freedom to choose among several power retailers, much as they do with long distance telephone companies. New York plans to introduce competition gradually over the next five years. But consumer advocates warn that once competition begins, the electric companies will see big commercial users like hospitals and factories as more desirable than residences, so large consumers will get the lowest rates.
While retailers in the future will be able to buy more cheap power from out of state, there is limited line capacity to carry it into New York City and Long Island. About one-third of the power used in New York City and on Long Island will still be produced locally, at relatively high cost.
New Yorkers would seem to have much to gain from restructuring the electric industry. The average price for electricity nationwide is 6.9 cents per kilowatt/hour, but in New York State it is 10.7 cents, and it is far higher in the metropolitan area.
In the 1970's and 80's, the state ordered New York's utilities to enter into decades-long contracts to buy power from in-state generators -- from major gas-fired plants to Mom-and-Pop dams -- often at above-market rates.
New York utilities pay $1.4 billion a year more for that power than they would if they bought it on the open market, the state estimates. They can either continue to overpay, or they can buy out the overpriced contracts, at a price the Public Service Commission estimates at $10.6 billion. Either way, consumers will foot the bill for years.
Utilities also have heavy debts from construction projects, often undertaken at the state's urging, like the never-used Shoreham nuclear plant. All told, the utilities estimate that they have more than $20 billion in obligations, like the overpriced power contracts and old debts, that they would be unable to recover in a purely competitive market.
The agreement with Con Edison lets the company recover 90 to 100 percent of such costs from its customers. Some consumer advocates and Democratic officials, like Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, say that the power companies and their shareholders must absorb a larger share of the expenses. But it is not clear whether they have the clout to take control of the restructuring.
Mr. Pataki's plan for dealing with those expenses is to help utilities borrow money through the sale of bonds at low interest rates, to refinance old debts and buy out overpriced power contracts. The low interest payments would save money, which administration officials said would be passed on to residents and small businesses as lower rates.
The new debts would be repaid over as much as 30 years through charges assessed on all customers.
While some administration officials say the bond sales could lower residential rates by 10 percent, securities industry analysts say the true figure is closer to 5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); GOVERNORS (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



382 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 2033 words

HEADLINE: Culture and Irony

BYLINE: By James R. Kincaid; James R. Kincaid is the Aerol Arnold Professor of English at the University of Southern California. His most recent books are "Annoying the Victorians" and the forthcoming "Manufacturing Virtue: The Culture of Child Molesting."

 BODY:

A LIFE OF
 MATTHEW ARNOLD
 By Nicholas Murray.
 Illustrated. 400 pp. New York:
 A Thomas Dunne Book/
 St. Martin's Press. $27.95. 
 Imagine Matthew Arnold emerging from one of the most strenuously upright homes in England, presided over by the Earnestness King (Thomas Arnold of Rugby), and becoming a Victorian Groucho Marx/Jacques Derrida. Imagine what it would take to persuade us that this is what happened. Well, "A Life of Matthew Arnold," by Nicholas Murray, isn't quite set on doing that -- I am -- but does certainly give us the finest picture yet of Arnold as a playful and poised ironist, against-the-grain social critic, mocker of the knowing and the smug. Even more important, he gives us Arnold as a quick-fingered unraveler of deep-woven cultural patterns, as deft as any of today's politicized deconstructionists -- and much funnier.
That we've not exactly been longing for such a make-over of Arnold is true. His status as major, ignored poet seems secure, and we've been satisfied boxing him into simple categories: "a sort of easy shorthand," Mr. Murray points out, for what the drearily moralizing academic left loves to drone against -- cultural elitism, remote estheticism, the status quo -- while the even drearier cultural right welcomes this same version of him into their virtue club. But Mr. Murray's Arnold hops free of these nets, stealthily peddling his idea of "culture" as an agile and open habit of mind, a way of being in the world rather than a static view that comes with a set of oppressive nostrums laid on to enforce that view. Culture was, for Arnold, a tactic, an active agency that worked by being fast on its feet, resistant to self-congratulations, subversive of our sustaining (and damaging) myths.
Arnold's voice is familiar to us, though we find ways to evade its radical power, the truly revolutionary force of his ironic method. His battle against "machinery," the steady grinding of habitual social and intellectual engines, was carried on as if little were at stake, precisely because everything was at stake. He always felt, for instance, that Protestant zeal, laudable as it was in some ways, carried with it a fanatical narrowness so self-satisfied and inflexible as to starve the soul it meant to feed, and it bored us to death too: "Notwithstanding the mighty results of the Pilgrim Fathers' voyage," he wrote about the settling of New England, "they and their standard of perfection are rightly judged when we figure to ourselves Shakespeare or Virgil -- souls in whom sweetness and light, and all that in human nature is most humane, were eminent -- accompanying them on their voyage, and think what intolerable company Shakespeare and Virgil would have found them!" Against the moral power of our founders and the pride we can (and do) take in their sea-to-shining-sea success, Arnold asks us to think of being stuck next to one of these pious mountains at dinner, many dinners.
Puritan virtue was by no means a safe target then (or now), but it was even riskier to mock the fetish of personal freedom, a freedom worshiped especially by those jealous of their right to be sublimely stupid and, when they liked, to carry that stupidity into action. To suggest that the determination to speak one's mind does not always secure for us the free play of the finest ideas, Arnold opens his pages to some wonderful roarers -- a Mr. Murphy, for instance, exercising his rights in some Birmingham lectures devoted to the designs he suspects the Roman Catholic Church of having on Mrs. Murphy: "If mayors and magistrates do not care for their wives and daughters, he does. But, above all, he is doing as he likes; or, in worthier language, asserting his personal liberty. 'I will carry out my lectures if they walk over my body as a dead corpse. . . .' Touching and beautiful words, which find a sympathetic chord in every British bosom!"
This is Arnold at his best, sure to be caricatured by people unwilling to develop the elasticity he asks for and employs. Mr. Murray, a poet in Wales, is especially fine at showing how Arnold has been reduced to a few misunderstood phrases, phrases like "getting to know . . . the best which has been thought and said in the world." Arnold often fired this slogan at the British philistine's steady, dimwitted devotion to a supply of "stock notions and habits." His emphasis, however, was never on a static "best" but on the process, the "getting." It was a mental activity, quick and skeptical, that he wanted to nourish. Even his famous touchstones -- examples of terrific writing employed to remind oneself of how awful writing usually is -- were not litmus tests but referents one would use to escape vulgar insularity, along with the brute knowingness that supported it.
Mr. Murray is, of course (though you wouldn't know it from what I've said so far), giving us the story of a life, in this case of a man scratching for some money and some time to write in the midst of a hectic (if deliriously happy) domestic scene and a voraciously demanding (and not deliriously happy) career as an Inspector of Schools. The Arnold here is also a surprisingly consistent, harmonious man, delighting as much in mocking himself as in taking after the British philistine. Mr. Murray clearly feels as much affection for his subject as Arnold did for so many of those around him, even his father, a dragon Mr. Murray manages to domesticate. The severe Thomas Arnold was also a romping, high-spirited man, permeated with right thinking, surely, but also with fun and with a soft, easy love for the son he called "my own Crabby."
Crabby's triumphant social career at school (and his entirely mediocre academic one), his dandyism and love of parties, fishing and good times were, Mr. Murray shows, something other than a pose, though they certainly took everyone in. This biography convinces us that Arnold really was that amiable, that able to swim in his own stream. Mr. Murray does get a little distracted by what Cecil Y. Lang, editor of the new and impressive first volume of "The Letters of Matthew Arnold" (University Press of Virginia, $60), calls "the Marguerite cottage industry." "Marguerite" is the subject of a series of poems so fascinating that a fair number of scholars, finding themselves sucked into a tabloid mentality, have gone in search of the real Marguerite, of whom we know, Mr. Murray candidly admits, "little" -- make that "nothing at all." Arnold later said bluntly there was no such person, and the evidence for her existence is so slim even the prosecutors of Mr. Pickwick wouldn't have used it. But it's the absence of any reason to suppose Marguerite existed that makes such a supposition irresistible, I suppose, and it's a minor weakness in an otherwise poised and witty biography, one so soaked in Arnoldian virtues of balance and liberality it sometimes seems deliberately to grant too much to Arnold's critics simply to keep our view from closing tight around admiration.
All the same, this is an admirable man, one who, irony restored, is far more dynamic and modern than those who criticize him for sponsoring a retrograde humanism. Arnold's generosity and ability to double back on himself are stunning and should work as rebukes to our own complacency. Here's one in- stance, a series of references to the philosopher and social reformer Margaret Fuller, whose work he had purchased because it was cheap, she was pretty and he had heard she was "brazen," a quality he had always found attractive. At first, the ignorant hokum she spouted repelled him, but he soon began reading through what he called "the screen" of the book to "her exquisite intelligence," marveling that she could develop it in a Boston "where everybody knows that the earth is an oblate spheroid and nobody knows anything worth knowing." A few months later he was reading her again and with a heart even more open, "greatly struck with her sincere striving to be good and helpful," especially in "her address to the poor women in the penitentiary."
Arnold's attraction to such feeling for "poor women in the penitentiary" reminds us of that side of him we have most shamefully occluded in our desire to use him to our own ends. Arnold was a lifelong liberal, so liberal that he gave great pain to the Liberal Party by his egalitarian and powerful ironies. His 35 years as Inspector of Schools were spent in close contact with the teachers and children, often poor children in nonconformist schools, and in very edgy contact with his superiors. He risked his career and sacrificed all chance of promotion by vigorously championing mandatory and free public education. He opposed the payment-by-results schemes for financing the schools on the grounds that they penalized the poor, and he did all he could to support teachers and teachers' unions, admiring a profession he said did more and worthier work than he, and for less pay.
But it was the poor children who most caught his sympathies. Some of his most telling social criticism works by juxtaposing aloof blather against the material lives of working-class children. For example, he reproduces, deadpan, Mr. Robert Buchanan's enthusiasm for God's population plans -- "There are never enough. Life, life, life. . . . The whole earth breeds, and God glories" -- and allows it to join hands with The Times of London's "finest economical doctrine" (which "I always carry . . . about with me"), to the effect that poverty is part of the simple and inexorable supply-and-demand law. He then confronts us with a picture of the East End London children he knew so very well, "children eaten up with disease, half-sized, half-fed, half-clothed, neglected by their parents, without health, without home, without hope."
Arnold died in 1888 at the age of 65. At his funeral, resting amid all the formal tributes from dignitaries was a small wreath that Mr. Murray rightly calls "the most moving tribute": "From St. Stephen's School, Westminster, where Matthew Arnold's annual presence, genial, kindly, encouraging, discriminating in sympathy, was welcomed as sunshine in the monotony of school life."
Arnold brought to all his countrymen an ironic sunshine meant to penetrate a self-satisfied reliance on instinct and tradition that was often not less vicious for being silly. Take, for instance, Sir Charles Adderley in a speech to the Warwickshire farmers -- "Talk of the improvement of breed! Why, the race we ourselves represent, the men and women, the old Anglo-Saxon race, are the best breed in the whole world" -- and Mr. Roebuck to the Sheffield cutlers: "I look about me and ask what is the state of England? Is not property safe? Is not every man able to say what he likes? Can you not walk from one end of England to the other in perfect security? I ask you whether, the world over or in past history, there is anything like it? Nothing."
Against this Arnold reprints a paragraph he stumbled on in a newspaper "immediately after reading Mr. Roebuck": "A shocking child murder has just been committed at Nottingham. A girl named Wragg left the workhouse there on Saturday morning with her young illegitimate child. The child was soon afterwards found dead on Mapperly Hills, having been strangled. Wragg is in custody."
Arnold proceeds by throwing platitudes and images together: "our old Anglo-Saxon breed," "Wragg!," "our unrivaled happiness," "the strangled illegitimate child." To "defiant songs of triumph," he says, the alert soul will murmur under his breath, "Wragg is in custody." Why? "There is profit for the spirit in such contrasts," in "eluding sterile conflict, by refusing to remain in the sphere where alone narrow and relative conceptions have any worth and validity."
Mr. Murray's biography gives us new access to this spirit and to Arnold's lifelong attempt to move us to other spheres, to teach us, even through his melancholy poetry, that sweetness and light are not sterile elitist attitudes but tools for confronting cheap contentment, heedlessness and bigotry. In offering us ironies as challenging as they are rich, Arnold took the risk that we might refuse his gifts. And we have: Wragg is in custody.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LIFE OF MATTHEW ARNOLD, A (BOOK)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (58%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (78%); STARVATION (74%); LITERATURE (73%); 

PERSON: KINCAID, JAMES R; MURRAY, NICHOLAS; ARNOLD, MATTHEW THOMAS ARNOLD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997



383 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Treasury's List Of Auctions Limited to Bills

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.08 percent and on the six-month bill, 5.19 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Central Tractor Farm and Country Inc., $100 million of senior notes due in 2007. B1/B+/---. Nationsbanc.
Gulf Canada Resources Ltd., $225 million of senior notes due in 2017. BA1/BB+/---. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Petroleum Geo-Services, $300 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2007. BAA3/BBB-/---. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Titan Wheel International Inc., $150 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2007. B1/BB-/---. Merrill Lynch.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.

TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
Mesa, Ariz., utility system, $94.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TUESDAY
Alabama Housing Finance Authority, $66.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
California, $525 million of general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
Seattle, $55 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
San Jose Merged Area Redevelopment Project, $106 million of debt securities. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
Louisiana, $225.6 million of general-obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
Ohio Higher Education, $282.3 million of general-obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alaska Industrial Development Authority, $150 million of revenue bonds. Smith Barney Inc.
City of Chicago, $72 million of collaterized single- family mortgage revenue bonds. George K. Baum & Co.
Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, $80 million of single-family mortgage debt securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Detroit-Wayne County Stadium Authority, $80 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Florida Gas Works, $115 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Harris County, Tex., Health Care Facility, $110 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Hawaii Harbor, $55 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Michigan Housing Development Authority, $87 million of rental housing revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority, $68 million of revenue and refunding bonds on behalf of Holy Name Hospital. Dillon, Read & Co.
Palm Beach County, Fla., Solid Waste Authority, $300 million of revenue bonds. Smith Barney Inc.
Pennsylvania Housing, $89 million of single-family revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (95%); TWI (NYSE) (69%); PGS (OSL) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (87%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (56%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (87%); CONOCOPHILLIPS CANADA CO (70%); TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (64%); DILLON READ & CO INC (61%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); PETROLEUM GEO-SERVICES ASA (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); HEALTH CARE (86%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (86%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



384 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: To Find Favorable Farm Climate, a World Map on the Web

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16

 BODY:
Researchers have developed a database encompassing decades of information on water, temperature and climate for every square mile of land on Earth, a tool that could benefit farmers, scientists and policymakers worldwide.
Establishment of the database, the World Water and Climate Atlas for Agriculture, was announced today by scientists at the International Irrigation Management Institute and Utah State University. 
 Users of the atlas, which will be available on CD-ROM and free of charge on a Utah State Internet, will be able to extract moisture and temperature data for an area as small as one square mile. The first segment, covering Asia, is to be available by June, the entire database by the end of the year.
"This is a unique resource that should benefit agriculture everywhere," Dr. David Seckler, director of the institute, said.
The institute, a research center based in Colombo, Sri Lanka, is one of 16 centers supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, an association of nations and private organizations fostering food and crop science.
Members include the World Bank and the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations. The project, which researchers estimate will cost less than $1 million, is being financed by the Japanese Government.
"The atlas integrates the available agricultural climate data into one computer program and represents the most comprehensive, quality-controlled climatic data set in existence," said Ismail Serageldin, chairman of the international group.
Donald T. Jensen, director of the Utah Climate Center at Utah State, said he and Andy Keller of the irrigation institute developed the atlas from data received from 56,000 weather stations around the world. The information, covering 1961 to 1990, came from combining data gathered by the United States, Canada, United Nations organizations and military sources worldwide.
The atlas includes 10-day, monthly and annual summaries of average, maximum and minimum temperatures, rainfall and other forms of moisture, and precipitation probabilities. It also includes data on evaporation, which is compared to precipitation figures to estimate moisture availability for crops and to help locate areas needing irrigation.
"The information in this database is a vast improvement over what we've had before," Dr. Seckler said, "It will make us a little smarter in how we use water, especially as it becomes scarcer in the future."
Dr. Seckler said 70 percent of all water used each year goes for irrigation, which produces between 30 to 40 percent of the world's food on just 17 percent of all arable land.
Using this information, the scientists said, engineers can develop better plans for irrigation and water conservation. In addition, agronomists should be able to identify areas where new types of crops might be introduced.
The scientists said the database is designed to be expanded. So far it contains no information from weather and sensing satellites in space, which could add data on seasonal crop growth, among other things.
The Food and Agricultural Organization has drawn a map of the soils of the world, Dr. Seckler said, and this information will be combined with the water atlas to help determine the best conditions for particular crops.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SRI LANKA (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); CONSULTATIVE GROUP ON INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); CONSULTATIVE GROUP ON INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SRI LANKA (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UTAH, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRONOMY (90%); WEATHER (89%); CROP RESEARCH (89%); IRRIGATION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (79%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



385 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Squaring Off Over Future Of Coliseum

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
The latest effort to redevelop Columbus Circle, a morsel of land as valuable as it is star-crossed, is running into some of the same civic turbulence that doomed its forebears. Officials, developers, advocacy groups -- all are again warning that the attempt to revitalize this scorned crossroads is in danger of repeating the missteps of the past.
The effort is entering a crucial stage because the Metropolitan Transportation Authority will soon choose three or four finalists in the search for a developer to construct a building to replace the dowdy New York Coliseum, the circle's most prominent structure. 
 Though the authority may eventually settle on a winner without altering the process, if people vehemently object to the proposal that is selected, they might sue, a strategy that tied up earlier Coliseum projects.
In fact, the Municipal Art Society of New York, an advocacy group that was instrumental in using the courts to help defeat the last Coliseum project, said last week that it had become so disappointed with the selection process that it had asked Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to revamp it.
The two officials declined to do so, and the society said it would sue again if it opposed the final plan for the Coliseum site, which will not be announced for several months.
The society and other critics complain that the neither the M.T.A. nor any other government agency has put together a master plan for Columbus Circle that takes a broad view of what is needed to create a glorious public space.
They note that at least six government agencies are planning work on various parts of the circle, adding that it does not appear that those endeavors are being adequately coordinated.
For example, the M.T.A., a state agency, is handling the Coliseum, while two city agencies are trying to reconfigure the circle's tortuous roadways, which have long been something of an obstacle course for pedestrians and drivers.
The fear is that the various projects will not mesh, leaving Columbus Circle as dysfunctional as it has been for decades.
"They have to get some other larger sense of the urban environment into the decision-making process," said Brendan Sexton, president of the Municipal Art Society, an influential nonprofit group that often lobbies on planning and zoning issues.
"This is the last time in our lifetime that such an important chunk of Manhattan is going to be up for redesign and rebuilding," Mr. Sexton said. "This one has got to be done right. It can't be just another development. This is going to be part of the mental picture that visitors to New York are going to have, just like Rockefeller Center."
Even Giuliani administration officials, who have tried to avoid publicly differing with the M.T.A. over the Coliseum sale, said the authority had to do a better job of examining the ramifications of the Coliseum plan for the rest of the circle.
In February, the administration attacked a study by the authority of those effects, saying that it did not include enough information about the roadways, sidewalks and subway and park entrances.
"They are not looking at it, or they have not yet determined that these are anything but minor issues," Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, said at the time. "We disagree."
Some of this bickering is to be expected. The development of large projects in New York City is almost always a tempestuous affair, a process that often moves from the boardroom to the drafting room to the courtroom.
And even the staunchest opponents of the authority give it credit for seeking input from civic and community organizations, in an attempt to insure that the Coliseum plan does not fail, as it did once before.
The previous attempt to rejuvenate the area was led by Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the publisher and real estate magnate, who had won the rights from the M.T.A. to build on the Coliseum site.
In 1985, Mr. Zuckerman originally proposed two towers rising 68 stories, but those would have cast such long shadows over Central Park that advocacy groups successfully fought them. The plan was repeatedly scaled back before it collapsed in 1994, a victim of the neighborhood opposition and a slumping real estate market.
E. Virgil Conway, the authority's chairman, said the agency had learned from its mistakes. Mr. Conway acknowledged that the authority had not drawn up a master plan for Columbus Circle, but he said he realized that the Coliseum site set the tone for the area, adding that he would coordinate the final proposal with those of other agencies.
"The process has been very open, and we plan to keep it that way," he said.
Underlying some of the criticism of the M.T.A. is a belief that the authority has no long-term stake in Columbus Circle. Once it sells the Coliseum, which includes 10 Columbus Circle, the agency will have few commitments in the area, raising questions about whether it will simply pick the developer who makes the highest bid, without focusing much on architecture.
Nine developers have submitted plans for the site, each of which includes both a bid and a proposed design. (The bids are believed to range from $150 million to $275 million.) Only one of the nine criteria in the M.T.A.'s application involves the artistic or civic merits of the designs; the rest discuss financial, legal or development considerations.
Mr. Giuliani has veto power over the winner of the Coliseum competition, and his aides have said he wants to make sure the winning design not only generates immediate dollars for the state and city, but also acts as an economic engine for the neighborhood in the coming decades.
The Municipal Art Society and three community boards in the area have said that before the authority selects a developer, it should expand the list of criteria to include more design considerations, and should set up an advisory panel with architects and other experts to help make the decision. The authority has declined to do that.
There are at least six state and city agencies drafting plans for Columbus Circle. Besides the M.T.A., another state agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, has also worked on the Coliseum proposal.
A city agency, the Economic Development Corporation, is selling 2 Columbus Circle, which was formerly the Huntington Hartford Gallery of Modern Art. The corporation has said it will delay choosing a developer until it has a better idea of what is planned for the Coliseum site.
Three other city agencies -- Planning, Transportation and Parks -- are trying to overhaul the roadways, sidewalks and park entrances.
The Planning Department, for one, is updating a proposal for the roadways from the late 1980's that calls for the city to turn the byways of the circle into a true traffic circle.
Amid these arguments about the future of Columbus Circle, the developers have remained largely on the sidelines, awaiting decisions about the Coliseum and 2 Columbus Circle. An exception is Donald J. Trump, who has bid for both of the properties and has threatened to sue if he loses and the resulting plans hurt the value of Trump International, his nearby condominium.
Another developer vying for the Coliseum site, Richard S. LeFrak, said there seemed to be little information about how the M.T.A. was conducting its selection process.
"I would be happier if we knew what criteria they are using, other than this vague list that they have given us," Mr. LeFrak said. "But apart from that, I guess they are trying to keep everybody as far removed as possible, and maybe that is the right way to do it."
Mr. LeFrak added that when it comes to Columbus Circle, "you can't keep all of the people happy any of the time."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "A CLOSER LOOK: Improving a Crossroads"
Several state and city agencies are working on improving Columbus Circle, which has long been one of the most poorly developed crossroads in New York City.
 
Coliseum and 10 Columbus Circle
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state agency, will soon choose three or four finalists from a group of nine developers vying to build here. The proposals include plans for offices, hotels, condominiums apartments, cinemas, department stores and television studios.
 
2 Columbus Circle
The Economic Development Corporation, a city agency, is selling this 10-story structure, which is also known as the Huntington Hartford building. Among the seven proposals are plans for a spiritual retreat and conference center, as well as for a headquarters for Spanish-language radio stations.
 
Entrance to Central Park
Earlier proposals for towers on the Coliseum site drew stiff opposition because they would have cast shadows on the park. Advocacy groups say a revamped circle should be more friendly to pedestrians, who would then be more willing to use this park entrance.
 
Traffic and Sidewalk Changes
Several proposals have been floated for overhauling the circle, which now has so many traffic islands and byways that it is dangerous for pedestrians to cross and confusing for motorists. At left is the layout from a 1987 proposal by a consulting firm that essentially creates a genuine traffic circle. City officials are now updating this design. Another proposal calls for the statue to be elevated, allowing Broadway to continue under the statue.
 
Maps of Columbus Circle. (pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA); MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA); MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; NEW YORK COLISEUM URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LOBBYING (71%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



386 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: In Manhattan's Big Race, Task Is to Become Known

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
They are already spending their days and nights crisscrossing Manhattan, appearing before everything from block associations and tenant groups to senior citizens and labor audiences.
Though the Democratic primary for Manhattan borough president is six months away, the campaign is moving ever so gradually from preseason to the main event. And as the candidates immerse themselves in the campaign, their most formidable challenge is simply to be recognized by an electorate that knows little about them or the office they seek. 
 The task is doubly difficult because their views on issues are strikingly similar and they often describe themselves in the same terms, as independent or progressive.
For now, their energies seem to be focused on striking chords they hope will appeal to voters beyond their home areas.
The candidates seeking to succeed Borough President Ruth W. Messinger are Deborah J. Glick, an Assemblywoman from Greenwich Village, and three members of the City Council: C. Virginia Fields, who represents central Harlem and the Upper West Side; Antonio Pagan, who represents the Lower East Side, and Adam Clayton Powell 4th, who represents East Harlem and portions of the Upper West Side.
"For these candidates, becoming well known is a task of herculean proportion," said Hank Morris, a political consultant who works with Democratic candidates.
"They are in the most information clogged area in the world, campaigning for an office that most people don't really understand," Mr. Morris said. "The person who wins will be the person who figures out a way to communicate outside of their base."
That mission, the candidates agree, will be particularly difficult. The borough president, who is now widely characterized as half figurehead, half ombudsman, is far less powerful than presidents were before 1990, when the position meant having a seat on the Board of Estimate and, with it, significant influence over the budget and land use in New York City. The Board of Estimate was abolished in 1990.
But the borough presidency is still seen as a stepping stone for officials with mayoral aspirations, like Ms. Messinger, who is seeking to challenge Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
At a forum for Democratic candidates for borough president last week, sponsored by two political clubs on the Upper West Side, all of the candidates stressed an ability to collaborate with groups outside their political bases and to champion issues that are not often associated with them.
Ms. Fields, a former social worker who has been a Councilwoman for eight years, focused on economic and development issues rather than some of the social service issues for which she is well known. She says she aims to woo voters from the Upper East Side and the Upper West Side.
Ms. Glick, the first openly lesbian member of the Assembly, reminded the audience that she had been an advocate of tenant rights and abortion rights as well as gay rights, and an opponent of overdevelopment on Manhattan's West Side.
"I have not been a single-issue legislator," she said, explaining that she had been able to forge strong political alliances outside her Greenwich Village district. "I have always been involved in progressive struggles."
Mr. Powell sought to counter speculation, rampant in political circles, that he was not seeking to become borough president so much as trying to enhance his name recognition and campaign contributions for another City Council race. "Many people thought I wasn't very serious and I was just putting my name out there," Mr. Powell said. "But I have made my decision."
Mr. Pagan, too, emphasized that he could appeal to voters outside his Council district on the Lower East Side.
Each candidate is allowed to spend $1 million on the race, and most have suggested that they need at least half that much to conduct a viable campaign. So far, Ms. Glick is leading the group in contributions, having collected nearly $200,000. Next is Ms. Fields, who has raised $170,000, followed by Mr. Pagan, who has raised $150,000. Mr. Powell has raised $50,000.
Much of the attention paid to the race has been devoted to which candidates would remain in it. Last week, David A. Paterson, a State Senator from Harlem, announced that he was no longer a candidate, a move that was widely seen as assisting Ms. Fields, since it would most likely lessen the splitting of the Harlem vote.
Because many Manhattan politicians cast the race as a contest between Ms. Glick and Ms. Fields, Mr. Powell and Mr. Pagan are busy assuring audiences that they are serious about the campaign.
Mr. Powell, in an effort to show that his campaign is in earnest, often brandishes a poll that he commissioned. In the poll, conducted by Zogby Group International, Mr. Powell said he placed first, the choice of 20.2 percent of the 461 respondents. Ms. Glick was next, with 12.1 percent, followed by Ms. Fields, with 9.6 percent. Mr. Pagan was the choice of 6.3 percent. More than half of those surveyed said they had no opinion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BOROUGH PRESIDENTS CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES); GLICK, DEBORAH J (ASSEMBLYWOMAN); FIELDS, C VIRGINIA (COUNCILWOMAN); PAGAN, ANTONIO (COUNCILMAN); POWELL, ADAM CLAYTON 4TH (COUNCILMAN) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



387 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Fund-Raising Furor: Clinton Agenda Is Hindered

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16

 BODY:
Like a contagion, the campaign finance controversy is hobbling an array of Government agencies and starting to change the political calculus of President Clinton's second term.
From the White House to the Commerce Department to the State Department Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Government offices are tied up in document searches that Administration officials say are likely to become even more time consuming as Congressional investigations move into high gear. 
 In a host of other areas, the controversy is raising all kinds of new political considerations.
For example, Vice President Al Gore's coming trip to China was once viewed as high-profile diplomacy. But Administration officials are fretting that Mr. Gore's every action will be viewed through the prism of accusations that the Chinese Government and Asian business interests were trying to buy political influence through campaign donations.
For Mr. Clinton, naming three people to a new commission to study gambling's effects on the country should have been a simple task. But the appointments are months overdue as the White House considers how to avoid any appearance that Mr. Clinton was influenced by donations from supporters of gambling.
At the State Department, nominations of ambassadors and assistant secretaries are backed up at least in part, officials say, because the current climate has made the Administration extremely cautious in its background checks of candidates.
And the fallout from the campaign finance controversy may also be starting to affect the negotiations over a balanced budget plan -- for a continuing Republican assault on Democratic fund-raising has left Mr. Clinton more dependent on Congressional Democrats than he might have been otherwise, some Administration officials and members of Congress say.
"They are driving him into the arms of the Democrats who least want to deal," said George R. Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's former senior adviser.
Indeed, the mood in Washington has changed sharply since Mr. Clinton was re-elected and promised to govern from the "vital center."
For months, Mr. Clinton had tried to set the stage for a season of cooperation with the Republican-led Congress. He particularly had appeared poised to separate himself from the liberal wing of his own party as he had done on issues like welfare and trade.
He named a Republican, William S. Cohen, as Defense Secretary in an effort to reach out to the Republicans. Later, furthering the impression that he was a conciliating force, Mr. Clinton appeared with former President George Bush and Gen. Colin L. Powell to say he would hold a three-day conference on community service this spring.
Such gestures were to pave the way for Mr. Clinton and Congressional Republicans to reach an agreement early this year on a plan to balance the budget by 2002.
But with questions about White House and Democratic fund-raising dominating Washington, partisanship is on the rise once more. Congressional Republicans have demanded that Mr. Clinton produce a new budget plan. Many are calling for an independent counsel. And one Georgia Republican, Representative Bob Barr, went so far last week as to call for impeachment proceedings against Mr. Clinton.
In such a climate, Congressional Democrats say, White House officials have been working to push more allies out in public to defend the President and to stop members of his own party from undercutting him by adding their own voices to the criticism of his fund-raising practices. But such tactics make it more difficult for Mr. Clinton to oppose liberal Democrats and core Democratic constituency groups.
"He is much more dependent on Democrats in Congress than he might have been otherwise," a Democratic strategist said. "He needs people up there to fight his fight. He can't afford to turn them all off."
Thus some on Capitol Hill considered it a telling moment last week when budget talks stalled after President Clinton shelved the idea of establishing an independent commission to devise a new way to calculate cost-of-living increases for Social Security and other Federal benefits.
Such a change would save billions of dollars, making a budget deal easier and potentially freeing up money to meet Republican demands for further tax cuts. But it was highly unpopular with traditional Democratic allies like labor and the elderly and was opposed by Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader, who is expected to challenge Mr. Gore from the left for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 2000.
Mr. Clinton's negotiators said that the decision had nothing to do with campaign finance considerations -- and that they had simply found opposition among some Republicans and among all factions of the Democratic party. Even conservative Democrats, they said, were unwilling to make changes in Social Security payments if the move could be viewed as paving the way for tax cuts.
But as a result of the President's action, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, whom Mr. Clinton had been courting as a negotiating partner, condemned the President as lacking leadership and Mr. Gephardt praised the President as "politically courageous."
Without progress on the budget, there is little on the horizon despite forays into foreign policy -- like the President's trip to Helsinki, Finland, later this week -- to dilute the focus on fund-raising and help Mr. Clinton change the subject.
Mr. Clinton himself ran in 1996 on a scaled-back domestic program and his most major proposals -- tax relief for higher education and additional money for work programs for welfare recipients -- are contingent on the budget talks.
The Republicans, meanwhile, came out of the election fractured over whether to return to their 1995 agenda or to seek more moderate areas of cooperation with the President. Speaker Newt Gingrich, who led them on their charge, has been weakened by his own ethics problems and unpopularity. And Mr. Lott has recently suffered several leadership setbacks.
One result is a vacuum that only means fund-raising questions will continue to grip policy-makers.
William Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard, a conservative magazine, gave this assessment of the situation: "If Clinton had announced a health care plan like his original one in the State of the Union message, or if the Republicans had come out of the box with something like the Contract With America, the scandals wouldn't be nearly as prominent. The economy is good. The country's at peace and neither party has an agenda."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ETHICS; FINANCES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ETHICS (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



388 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Trade Gap Grows, Breaking Trend

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, March 17

 BODY:
Japan's merchandise trade surplus rose in February for the first time in 27 months, as the weakening yen helped increase exports, the Finance Ministry said today.
The surplus rose 6.5 percent from February 1996 to 686.72 billion yen, or about $5.56 billion, the Japanese Government said. Still, that increase was within expectations; economists in a survey had projected a surplus of about 699 billion yen. 
 Japan's trade surplus with the United States in February rose 12.3 percent, to 407.35 billion yen, the ministry said, for the fifth consecutive monthly increase.
Financial markets showed little early reaction today to the first increase in Japan's trade surplus since November 1994. In afternoon trading, the dollar was quoted at 123.67 yen, up from 123.38 yen late Friday. Japanese stocks were relatively stable, with the Nikkei index of 225 issues trading up 129.86 points, at 18,053.50, at the close.
The yen's 16.3 percent decline between August and February fueled much of the increase in Japanese exports, particularly of automobiles and machinery. Automobile exports to the United States rose 15.4 percent in February.
Global imports to Japan rose 10.8 percent in February, to 3.302 trillion yen, while exports rose 10 percent to 3.989 trillion yen, the ministry said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); US DOLLAR (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



389 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Buffett Likes McDonald's But Worries About Market
Warren E. Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, says most stocks are overvalued. But he excludes the shares of his own company, and he has been loading up on shares of McDonald's.
Berkshire's newly released annual report shows that as of the end of last year, the company owned 30.2 million shares of McDonald's, or a 4.3 percent stake. [Page D3.] 

Pressures of the Job Get Blame In Suicide of a Chief Executive
The new chief executive of Luby's Cafeterias was found dead in a motel room Thursday, and his family, associates and investigators are asking if the 49-year-old executive was overcome by the day-to-day pressures of running a company. John Edward Curtis Jr. was anxious about an approaching board meeting and reporting disappointing earnings for the quarter. [D2.]
 
Massachusetts Miracle, the Sequel
Recovering from another economic slump, the New England region is developing as a mix of entrepreneurial high-technology start-ups and of services like health care and finance. [A1.]
 
Behind Data General's Comeback
With a fanatical commitment to cost cutting and the success of two crucial product lines, Data General is rebounding from a decade of losses. The company, an old technology highflier, is reviving itself on the strength of a high-end server intended to accommodate the data-processing needs of an entire corporation and a disk storage system. [D5.]
 
Rethinking the Web's Great Design
We are now in the third generation of Web site design, where sites use metaphors, not just images. One example is the Joe Boxer site, which encourages surfers to download a free pair of underwear. Edward Rothstein: Technology [D5.]
 
New Neighborhoods Are Created
Individuals are telling their stories the way they want to on their own home pages. Steve Schachlin did so last year with the assistance of Geocities, a free home page provider. Geocities and other services provide on-line tools to set up a page and contend that a newcomer can have a page up and running in 10 minutes. [D5.]
 
What Would St. Patrick Think?
The fifth-century kidnapee-turned-cowherd-turned-missionary would probably be just as disgusted with today's plastic shamrocks, green beer and "kiss me" buttons as he was with the Bacchanalian excesses of the comfortable classes in his own time. But he would probably like the full text of his "Confessio" on the Web. [D6.]
 
Dialing New Connections
BellSouth's spending will be about $100 million to $150 million for a campaign to retain its customers as rivals move into its turf and try to win over those phone users. Among the celebrities BellSouth is using in its campaign are Dixie Carter, Kathleen Turner and Naomi Judd. Advertising. [D9.]
 
Hold the Salt
Researchers affiliated with Myriad Genetics have identified a genetic mutation common among people who have salt-sensitive hypertension. The company has developed a test that screens hypertensive patients for the presence of this mutation. Patents. [D2.]
 
Japan's Trade Surplus Climbs
Japan's merchandise trade surplus rose 6.5 percent in February, the first increase in 27 months, as the weakening yen helped bolster exports. [D2.]
 
Minding Russia Watchers
David Johnson's Russia list of news, essays and commentary, which is sent to 1,000 scholars, journalists, policy makers and Russophiles, is an influential exchange of Russian information on the Web. [D8.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 6,935.46 Down 65.43
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.94% Up 0.13
The Dollar -- 123.38 yen Up 1.56

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (59%); BRK.A (NYSE) (59%); LUB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (59%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (59%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (59%); NAICS722514 CAFETERIAS, GRILL BUFFETS & BUFFETS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (59%); LUBY'S INC (57%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); STARTUPS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEATHS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



390 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: 1997 N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT: WEST;
Four-Year Mission Ends for Wake Star

BYLINE: By TOM FRIEND 

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., March 16

 BODY:
He came back for this?
Tim Duncan chose the dorms over an N.B.A. per diem, but he did not want to hear today that college is the greatest time of your life. He could have millions of dollars in annuities by now, but instead he spent this afternoon being pushed on his empty wallet by a group of Stanford econ majors. 
 Their names are Mark Madsen, Peter Sauer, Pete Van Elswyk, Mark Seaton and Tim Young, and, although they could all use a student loan from Duncan next year, Stanford's big men were superior to him today in the aggregate. Duncan, certain to be college basketball's player of the year, did not have a field goal in the final 14 minutes, and he was nowhere to be found when the offensive rebound of Stanford's life fell into the lap of a 6-foot guard.
Arthur Lee's look-what-I-found rebound basket with 29 seconds remaining was the insurance bucket that sixth-seeded Stanford needed, and Duncan's remarkable career at Wake Forest ended with a 72-66 loss in the second round of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.
"I didn't know we could do this, to be honest with you," said the Cardinal coach, Mike Montgomery.
Stanford had not won two games in an N.C.A.A. tournament since it won the championship in 1942, and its archrivals at California like to say that the Stanford men cannot even beat the Stanford women's team. But Brevin Knight, a point guard who almost attended Manhattan College, controlled the tempo today, and Stanford's five post players pitched the perfect makeshift tent around the 6-foot-10-inch Duncan.
Stanford (22-7) is not only the record fourth Pacific 10 team in this year's round of 16 -- hence its band chanting, "Pac 10, Pac 10" -- but on Thursday it will get to play its West Regional semifinal 20 minutes from campus at San Jose (Calif.) Arena. "It will be very, very loud," Knight said. The opponent will be Utah, which dismantled North Carolina-Charlotte, 77-58, in today's early game, but the truth is, this regional was supposed to be a pro scouting combine.
Duncan was supposed to be there, along with Utah's Keith Van Horn and Kentucky's Ron Mercer -- possibly the first three picks in the National Basketball Association draft -- but Stanford's upset of the third-seeded Demon Deacons (24-7) means Duncan can start talking to agents.
"I couldn't sit here and tell you what I got out of staying," said Duncan, a senior, who possibly could have been the first pick in either of the last two N.B.A. drafts had he chosen to leave school early. "I had a great time. I have no regrets. I'll never look back and say I should have done that or should have done this."
His crime today was not finishing what he started. Wake Forest was the nation's No. 2 team in late January, but its guards stopped shooting like marksmen, and defenses were free to sag back and swallow Duncan. His numbers today were reputable -- 18 points, 20 rebounds, 3 blocks -- but he had 6 turnovers amid all of the Stanford commotion and his erratic guards not only failed to get him the ball, they waited 35 minutes to warm up.
Stanford's center, Young -- its only big man to choose English over economics -- played only five minutes of the first half after fouling Duncan twice, while his backup, Madsen, picked up three similar fouls in a mere six minutes. But the Cardinal still led by 25-19 at halftime, scored the first 7 points of the second half and held an improbable 40-24 lead with 15 minutes left.
Wake Forest's guards, Tony Rutland and Jerry Braswell, began to ignore Duncan -- because of the Stanford forest around him -- and they hoisted enough 3-pointers that some were bound to drop. By the three-minute mark, the Cardinal's lead was a mere 60-55, and Stanford decided to put the game in Knight's itchy hands.
Knight, a senior who attended Seton Hall Prep in East Orange, N.J., and who chose Stanford over Manhattan because his parents told him to, finished with 19 points and 5 assists, and gave all the credit to the bruisers who backed up Young.
Sauer, in particular, drilled two jump shots (set up by Knight) in the final two minutes to give the Cardinal a 66-59 lead, and then Lee's heaven-sent rebound and basket made it 68-62.
"When I got the rebound and put it in," said Lee, who was not boxed out by Ricky Peral, "it was like a dream."
In the earlier game, the Charlotte box-and-one defense that warped Victor Page's shot in a first-round victory over Georgetown did nothing of the sort to Van Horn. The Utah senior may have been 1 of 6 from 3-point range, but there is always the alley-oop. Van Horn had more than his share of dunks and two-foot shots on his way to a game-high 27 points, and Utah suffered only minor perspiration in its victory.
"Actually, I think Keith is pressing a bit," said his coach, Rick Majerus. "The reason, and this is why I like the boy, is when he misses, he gets mad."
Meanwhile, Sean Colson, the North Carolina-Charlotte guard who had tortured Page, was experiencing double vision -- as in two Utes everywhere he looked. Colson may have head-bobbed his way to 24 points against the Hoyas, but Majerus implored his defense not to fall for Colson's Academy Award-worthy head-and-shoulder move. The result was Colson's 3-point, 1-for-13 shooting day that left Charlotte in an unenviable hole. Utah's lead was actually as little as 47-40 with 14 minutes left, but -- with Van Horn resting on the bench -- center Michael Doleac (18 points, 7 rebounds) scored 4 straight to end it.
A Utah-Wake Forest matchup would have been a rematch of their New Year's Eve game earlier this season -- the night Duncan clinched the player of the year award over Van Horn -- but now the two all-Americans will not meet again until the next level.
Wake Forest Coach Dave Odom was near tears about it. He remembers when Duncan, who is still a month from his 21st birthday, arrived as a rail-thin 17-year-old from St. Croix. He stayed four years, is on a first-name basis with his professors and was even brave enough this year to get two tattoos: a wizard on his chest and a joker (winking) on his back.
"Tim leaves us after four years of absolute great performances -- one monster game after another," Odom said. "More than any other player I've been around, he's exercised the joy of the moment. I have no remorse at all with him. He's leaving; he's ready.
"I'm sad to see him go, but it's his time, and he's earned it. And as he walks out that door the last time, there will be no tears. Well, O.K., there will be tears."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wake Forest's Tim Duncan, right, set to block a shot by Stanford's Arthur Lee yesterday. (Todd Warshaw/Allsport, for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); UTAH, USA (85%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH; UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (CHARLOTTE); STANFORD UNIVERSITY; WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (91%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH; UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (CHARLOTTE); STANFORD UNIVERSITY; WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (91%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); UTAH, USA (85%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; NCAA BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT BASKETBALL (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (74%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); WOMEN (71%); 

PERSON: FRIEND, TOM J MARK MADSEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



391 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2520 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC PULSE: New England;
For Chilly New England Economy, Spring

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: LOWELL, Mass.

 BODY:
The towers rose almost overnight in this former textile city in the early 1980's, concrete and glass headquarters for the Wang Laboratories computer giant and a symbol of the boom known as the Massachusetts Miracle.
But when Wang missed the personal computer revolution and went bankrupt in the early 1990's, laying off thousands of workers, the nearly empty buildings loomed as a grim reminder of the recession that lasted longer in New England than in any other region of the country. The three towers, built for an estimated $80 million, were sold to a pair of developers in 1994 for a pittance: $525,000, or 35 cents per square foot. 
 Today, the towers, which have been rechristened Cross Point, are once again a hot property. They are almost fully occupied, with 22 new businesses that provide services like health care, banking, telecommunications and Internet access. The towers stand as a symbol of Lowell's, and New England's, economic rebound.
Time and again, this region has transformed itself through pluck and brains, from a mid-19th-century agriculture and textile center to a great maritime power, then to a defense and high-technology magnet. So the region has responded to its latest slump by reinventing its economy once more. No miracle of growth this time, this economy has weaned itself from an overdependence on Pentagon money, outmoded mainframe computers and real estate dollars. Instead, it is developing as a mix of entrepreneurial high-technology start-ups and services, much like the mix of companies drawn to the former Wang towers.
Just as Lowell is a metaphor for New England's recovery, so does the region mirror in many ways the rest of America, where the economy has diversified and where rising fortunes have helped keep both inflation and unemployment low, fueling investor and consumer confidence.
Here in Massachusetts, the latest unemployment figure was 3.7 percent, below the national average, which was 5.3 percent in February, and it is even lower in the area along Route 128, the highway circling Boston. During the recession, offices emptied out in that area, known as the Silicon Valley of the Northeast. But competition for high-technology workers is so intense now that some companies have been reported to be offering signing bonuses of $100,000.
"It has taken us nine years to dig our way out," said Ira Jackson, an executive vice president at BankBoston, who described the Massachusetts Miracle as "overheated, giddy, greedy," a wave of growth that seemed to defy market logic before it went bust.
"We're like the guy in the Mennen commercial who gets slapped, and says, 'Thanks, I needed that.' " Mr. Jackson said. "We're much more diversified. We're lighter and quicker on our feet, much more competitive, more market-oriented. We're certainly more humble. Our long extended winter of discontent is behind us."
The Massachusetts Miracle, its name notwithstanding, took hold primarily in Boston and eastern Massachusetts, and the recovery is also concentrated there. It is spotty in some other parts of New England, like western Massachusetts, where manufacturing jobs continue to decline, and Rhode Island, which, because of a reliance on military manufacturing rather than research and development, has been less able to cope with Pentagon cutbacks than Massachusetts.
In northern Maine, in many ways a separate state from southern Maine, the decades-long decline in logging and paper-mill jobs continues. The state has an unemployment rate, about 8 percent, that is higher than the rate for the rest of the nation.
While the nation has more than recovered the jobs lost in the recession, New England has regained only 73 percent of the 650,000 jobs lost between late 1988 and 1991, said Wayne M. Ayers, the chief economist for BankBoston. The region has been losing manufacturing jobs steadily since 1984, and those losses have begun to bottom out only in the past year.
"It's a bona fide recovery, but it's very uneven," Mr. Ayers said.
The economy of Vermont, the most rural of the New England states, depends on dairy farming, tourism and manufacturing, and it was not hurt as badly by the recession as the rest of the region. Some people give credit for that to the state's strict environmental laws, which curbed development.
"We didn't come to the peaking crescendo the other states did and then crash," said Tom Pelham, the state's commissioner of finance and management.
But areas that are strongly tied to the Massachusetts economy, like southern New Hampshire and southern Maine, are bubbling again with new jobs in high technology, telecommunications and financial and business services. New Hampshire, in fact, had the highest job growth from 1994 to 1995 of any New England state.
Many of New Hampshire's new jobs, in retail and service, pay considerably less than the construction and manufacturing jobs that have disappeared, said Russ Thibeault, an economic consultant in Laconia. "The good news is we added all the jobs we lost," he said. "The bad news is the kind of jobs we're adding is lousy."
Maine may still be known for lobsters and potato farming, but it is computer chips, telemarketing and biotechnology that are driving the new economy, said Gov. Angus King, a political independent and self-made millionaire businessman. Mr. King, who was elected in 1994 after promising to bring jobs to Maine, persuaded National Semiconductor last summer to commit to a $900 million expansion of its South Portland plant.
 The energy is being felt here in Lowell, a city of 100,000 people that in the mid-19th century reigned as the country's largest manufacturing center, only to endure a bust and boom and a bust again as the mills moved south, and as Wang drove an economic revival in the 1980's and a collapse in 1992.
In the wake of its fall, Wang, which employed 5,500 workers in the towers at its peak, has moved to nearby Billerica and transformed itself into a computer integration and support company with fewer than 1,000 employees.
The Boston Globe is thick with Help Wanted advertisements on Sundays. The sleek office parks along Route 128 are humming once again, their corridors bustling with 30-and-under graduates of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and software engineers.

Roots of a Revival
New Enterprises On Broader Base
The spirit of New England's revival can be found at all hours in a two-room, ground-floor office in Cambridge, Mass. There, Steve Levy, a 56-year-old former chief executive of BBN, the Internet giant based in Cambridge, founded an Internet game start-up company with his partner, Al Stevens, 47.
"Five people, 800 square feet and an idea," Mr. Levy said, describing the company, called Kaon. "Our idea was that we could create virtual communities focused around a game."
Kaon has already outgrown its space and is looking for larger quarters.
While the boom of the 80's was driven by Federal military dollars, real estate and a handful of high-technology superstars like Wang, the Digital Equipment Corporation and Data General, the new economy, as shown by Cross Point's success in Lowell, is more diversified. It draws on mainstays like the defense giant Raytheon and the consumer products maker Gillette but also on financial services, health care, telecommunications and a new generation of biotechnology and other high-technology companies. The new names include Genzyme, Cascade, Parametric Technology, Security Dynamics and Bay Networks.
The hardest-driving pistons in this economic engine are found in Cambridge and the areas around Route 128 and, farther west, Route 495, the other highway that rings Boston.
Cambridge has become a boom town, with a 4.6 percent commercial vacancy rate. High-technology start-ups share the narrow streets of the industrial section with pipe factories, auto repair shops and the New England Confectionary Company's Necco candy factory.
Roy Hirshland, a vice president with Spaulding & Slye, a commercial real estate firm, was driving along Route 128 the other day, past the huge office complexes where high-technology companies are competing for space.
"These were empty buildings in the 1990's," Mr. Hirshland said. "You couldn't give space away. Now it's tight as a drum. Rents go up almost monthly."

The Labor Force
Opportunities Depend on Skills
For all the venture capital pouring into places like Cambridge and along Route 128, Mr. Ayers, the BankBoston economist, cautions that there are threats to the recovery. The low unemployment rate, for example, in part reflects the smaller labor force; the number of highly skilled workers shrank during the recession.
There is a risk, Mr. Ayers said, that if Massachusetts continues to lose skilled workers, "the industries that we have identified as being the drivers of the New England economy will look to grow elsewhere, where the labor force is growing more rapidly."
Housing is still expensive. Boston's housing market is still the fifth most costly in the country, and labor and utility costs make it more expensive to do business in the region than in, say, the Research Triangle, between Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill in North Carolina.
"It's not a slam-dunk, rosy future for anybody," said Jerold S. Kayden, an associate professor of urban planning at Harvard's Graduate School of Design. "This is a wiser Massachusetts that needs to look over its shoulder and look ahead at the same time. Everybody is competing with everyone else."
It takes a college education, computer experience and a car to get to a job along Route 128. Peggy Lai, 41, and Kit Chung, 46, lack all three things. They belong to the ever-increasing ranks of Americans trying to catch up in the new economy.
Last November, Ms. Lai and Ms. Chung were laid off from their jobs stitching bras at the Goddess lingerie factory in Watertown, Mass. Now they spend their days at computers in a classroom in downtown Boston, learning data entry and basic computer skills.
Their classes are part of a retraining program offered by Action for Boston Community Development.
"We have to be computerized," Ms. Lai said. "We have to catch up." The two women earned $5.85 an hour at the lingerie factory, with extra piecework bringing the wage up to as much as $10 an hour. They expect to find $8-an-hour jobs when they complete the training program, perhaps as data entry clerks in a bank or as temporary workers.
For 30 years, Frederick J. Grafton has earned his living as a boilermaker, building and maintaining power plants. In 1990, his best year, he earned $70,000. He has not found work in his trade since November, when he had a two-day job in New Hampshire.
Now he picks up odd jobs where he can, with a recent stint as an $8-an-hour driver for a Starbucks coffee truck. The bank foreclosed on Mr. Grafton's house two years ago. He and his wife have separated, in part because of his financial difficulties, Mr. Grafton said.
Mr. Grafton is studying computer-aided design at the same center as Ms. Lai and Ms. Chung. Jack Cumisky, who heads the program, said Mr. Grafton could expect to find a $10-an-hour entry-level position when he completed the 18-week course.
"I'm looking forward to it," Mr. Grafton said. "I'm optimistic. I've hit rock bottom."

New Attitudes
Warmer Welcome For Businesses
Economists say there is no single reason for the recovery. The region has benefited from the upturn across the country, and it has put behind it the credit crunch and real estate crisis -- in particular, a glut of unsold commercial property -- of the recession.
In addition, Massachusetts is no longer Taxachusetts. Cushioned by tax increases pushed through by his predecessor, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, Gov. William F. Weld, a Republican who took office in 1992, has pushed into law several tax cuts and other measures intended to reduce the cost of doing business in the state.
Some people say the state is becoming downright business-friendly. When Raytheon threatened to leave last year, the Legislature, which is overwhelmingly Democratic, gave the company breaks on its corporate income tax.
In a 1991 survey of 200 chief executives who are members of the Massachusetts High Technology Council, 77 percent rated the Massachusetts business climate as fair or poor, while 92 percent said it would hold steady or worsen. In a 1997 survey, 88 percent called the business climate good or outstanding, while 99 percent said it would hold steady or improve.
Economists say the region is doing better because of growth in banking and financial services, particularly for mutual fund companies. With Boston home to Fidelity Investments, the country's largest financial services company, the city has in the last decade risen to become a financial services capital second only to New York.
In fact, despite Fidelity's highly publicized problems, including lagging mutual fund returns and the defection of many top managers, the company continues to grow.
Its Boston work force has more than doubled in the past six years, to 8,900 from 4,325. It opened a new office in New Hampshire last year and has announced plans to open one in Rhode Island in 1998.
Another key to the recovery is Boston's wealth of top educational institutions, which continue to produce the intellectual capital for the region's economy.
"What's interesting about the recovery in Massachusetts is that it's very difficult to pin it on a particular sector," said Lynn Brown, a senior vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank in Boston. "I think probably what is driving it is people with ingenuity who are well educated and have developed lots of contacts and have continued to be able to come up with new ideas."
Just as Massachusetts has reinvented itself to survive in the new economy, so has Christopher Jenkins. Mr. Jenkins, a graduate of the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., is the chief financial officer of Ziplink, a start-up Internet service provider that moved its 30 employees onto the fifth floor of one of the former towers of Wang Laboratories last July.
Eight months later, Ziplink has 97 employees, with plans to add 100 to 150 jobs in the next 18 months.
Ten years ago, Mr. Jenkins became one of the statistics of the recession when he bought a small paging company two weeks before the stock market crashed.
The nadir came one day in 1991, when his car had been towed from a temporary no-parking zone and he and his wife were walking along Boston's Southeast Expressway in the rain.
"I thought State Street Bank was going to take my house," Mr. Jenkins said. "I was way, way in debt. People were threatening to put me in bankruptcy. I started laughing. I said to my wife, 'It can't get any worse than this.' "
In 1995, with the Northeast economy improving, one of the Bell Company spinoffs bought what was left of Mr. Jenkins's paging business. That gave him the cash to help start Ziplink.
Mr. Jenkins said he and his wife, Julia Nord, had learned a lesson: "We know that things don't just always continue to go up. They can go back down."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 1997, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about New England's economy misstated the unemployment rate in Maine. As of January 1997, unemployment for the state as a whole was 4.4 percent, not 8 percent, which is the rate for parts of northern Maine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chase Manhattan Bank workers recently opened an office in the former Wang Laboratories towers, which have been rechristened Cross Point, joining more than 20 other companies in Lowell, Mass; The towers deserted by Wang Laboratories in Lowell, Mass., symbolized the area's economic troubles. Now, new companies are moving in. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Graph: "Unemployment Trends"
Unemployment peaked in the early 1990's in the United States overall and in New England. Some of those states even surpassed the national average. Now the rates for those states are below the national average. Graphs track unemployment rates for five New England states, since 1987. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US) ; UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHEAST USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DIVERSIFICATION OF BUSINESS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; REAL ESTATE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); STARTUPS (68%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



392 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 17, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Insecure, Are We?;
Go Ahead, Be Paranoid. Hackers Are Out to Get You.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
In a chilly, windowless room in a New York suburb, four men are tapping furiously at their laptop computers. Their mission: crack into the computer system of a major American corporation.
Things seem to be going well, for them. "All right, we're through the firewall," announced one bearded hacker. A few moments later, a second practitioner of high-tech mischief pronounced himself pleased by what he saw inside -- a digital picture of vulnerability rendered by the lines of computer code dancing across his screen. "Looks like we can toast it," he said. 
 Charles Palmer, a slender, bearded 40-year-old computer scientist, looked on with pride at the members of his team. Skilled hackers, Mr. Palmer noted, are scarce these days, at least ones that he will hire.
"It's hard to find good people in this field who do not have criminal records," he explained.
Mr. Palmer and his team work for the International Business Machines Corporation, and their brand of computer hacking is legal. Companies pay the I.B.M. squad to attack their computer systems to test how well they can stand up to the increasing assaults by real hackers. The growing ranks of cyberintruders are engaged in everything from snooping around to "parking" pornography and pirated software on unsuspecting corporate machines to computer-assisted fraud and theft.
White-hat hackers, like those at I.B.M., are only one kind of computer-security professional whose skills are much in demand today. Once an arcane specialty, computer security has moved into the mainstream. As companies rush onto the Internet, they benefit from improved communication with customers, suppliers and far-flung employees, but they also take on far greater risk that their corporate computer systems will be breached by outsiders with malicious intent.
The dangers of a networked world have created boom times for computer security consultants, auditors, cryptographers and others. Lately, they must contend with pushy headhunters as well as hackers. Five years ago, six-figure salaries were rare in the security field. Today, it is not uncommon for skilled computer-security veterans to be making $200,000 a year or more.
Recognizing a sellers' market for computer-security expertise, Wietse Venema has come to America, and he's selling. A computer scientist from the University of Eindhoven in the Netherlands, Mr. Venema is the co-author of Satan, a sophisticated software program intended to find security flaws in any computer system linked to the Internet. The 45-year-old Dutch researcher is considering offers from I.B.M. and other leading American computer companies. "Many people are interested in my capabilties now," he observed cheerfully.
Experts, like Mr. Venema, are suddenly stars because corporations are spending more on computer security. This year, companies worldwide are expected to spend $6.3 billion on security for their computer networks, estimates Dataquest, a market research firm. Within three years, the security price tag is projected to more than double to nearly $12.9 billion -- a figure that is only for services supplied by outside contractors, so it excludes spending on in-house staff, security software or hardware products.
The industry in America, the world leader in computer security, comprises hundreds of companies. They run the gamut from large companies with worldwide computer consulting practices, like I.B.M., the Science Applications International Corporation and Perot Systems, and Big Six accounting firms, like Coopers & Lybrand, Ernst & Young and Deloitte & Touche, down to one-man independent consultants, like Mr. Seiden.
Fueling the surge in computer-security spending is fear. The corporate concerns are heightened with every report of hackers defacing well-known World Wide Web sites, like the recent attacks on the sites of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Justice Department. The Federal Bureau of Investigation says few intrusions into corporate computer systems -- 15 percent at most -- are ever reported to law enforcement agencies. But the handful that are reported, like the 1994 case of Russian hackers who tapped into Citibank and made $10 million in illegal funds transfers (all but $400,000 was recovered), tend to cause alarm.
"The business is not so much network security as it is network insecurity," noted Alice Murphy, an analyst at Dataquest. "There's so much anxiety out there now."
Just how great the threat is to corporate computer systems is a matter of debate. The Internet, observes Peter Neumann, a computer scientist at SRI International, a research group in Menlo Park, Calif., was never really designed to be secure. Once the bailiwick of a small community of researchers, it is starting to be used as a freeway of commerce. "The infrastructure is vulnerable," Mr. Neumann said. "From that larger perspective, the risks are enormous."
Dan Farmer, the co-author of Satan with the Dutch researcher Mr. Venema, did a survey of 1,700 corporate and government Web sites late last year and found that more than 60 percent of them had "serious potential security vulnerabilities." Mr. Farmer, a programmer at Sun Microsystems Inc., did not break into the computer systems, but he said they were open to attack and often could be severely damaged. (His survey results are posted on the Web, at www.trouble.org.)
Yet there is a significant difference, some analysts say, between potential vulnerability and the actual business risk to corporate computer systems. "There is risk, but the threat tends to be vastly overstated," said George Colony, president of Forrester Research Inc., a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
Forrester estimates that losses from fraud in Internet commerce are likely to be roughly $1 for every $1,000 of business. To put the matter into perspective, the fraud losses in cellular phone service are $20 for every $1,000, according to Forrester, while the losses on credit card transactions are nearly $2 for every $1,000 of goods charged.
Still, even skeptics, like Forrester's Mr. Colony, agree that computer security requires continuous attention. "It is a manageable risk, and it should not deter companies from jumping into Internet commerce," Mr. Colony said. "But I also tell our clients that they should think of computer security as a guerrilla war that will last forever."
The F.B.I. is treating the battle against computer crime as a long-running campaign. All new agents are now trained in cyberspace investigations as part of the curriculum at the F.B.I. Academy in Quantico, Va. And last year, the bureau established three computer crime squads in San Francisco, New York and Washington, to pursue cybercrime more aggressively.
"We're really on the cusp of this becoming a major problem," said James Kallstrom, head of the F.B.I. office in New York. "As more and more of the economy goes digital, there are huge incentives for criminal attacks on American corporations."
Computer crime, of course, comes in many forms. An employee with a grudge and access to a company's computer network may well be far more dangerous, and costly, than even the most artful hacker.
A survey released two weeks ago by the Computer Security Institute, and conducted on behalf of the F.B.I.'s computer crime unit, estimated computer security losses last year at $100 million -- a total only among some 250 companies and organizations that would place dollar figures on their losses from fraud, theft of trade secrets and other breaches.
The criminal hackers have long been engaged in a kind of cat-and-mouse game with law enforcement agencies and private computer security experts. And that game is increasingly being played at a higher level, with greater skill and new tools.
The cell-phone hackers of the past, who electronically jimmied phones for the thrill and free phone service, have graduated to Web site hacking. Today, there are an estimated 440 hacker bulletin boards, 1,900 Web sites purveying hacking tips and tools, and 30 hackers publications like "Phrack" and "2600: The Hacker Quarterly." There are readily available software programs for hacking tactics like "war dialing," "sniffing" and "fingering" -- all used to exploit security weaknesses in computer systems.
"As the stakes become higher, the technical sophistication of the people doing this kind of illegal activity is increasing," said Edward Hart, a senior vice president of Science Applications International.
Today, there is a brisk, illicit market in hacking, according to security experts, with the street price for breaking into a corporate Web site typically in the $8,000-to-$10,000 range. Bonus payments are usually demanded for trade secrets pilfered or damage inflicted on a competitor's computer system.
Limiting the risk, and damage, to corporate computer systems is the goal of Mr. Palmer and the other security specialists at I.B.M. The test hacking done by his team is mainly a fact-finding tool, and only one of many. The authorized break-ins by these groups, called "tiger teams," is often more valuable as a marketing tactic than as a research tool. Thick and exhaustive studies of a company's computer security can be met with yawning indifference by top executives, but a break-in gets their attention.
Mundane rules, not high-tech wizardry, are crucial to reducing security risks. A robust firewall to filter what electronic traffic gets into a company's computer system is helpful, but it can be a Maginot Line approach to security -- the real weaknesses are elsewhere.
To work from home, employees may have dial-up modems at their desks, unprotected by firewalls or even passwords. Employees, security experts warn, must be told to give their passwords to no one; one scam is for hackers to call new employees, pretending to be members of the corporate technology staff doing a check of passwords. Another frequent weakness is simple physical security, watching who goes in or out of the building.
These are hectic times for security consultants like I.B.M.'s Nick Simicich, a 44-year-old self-taught programmer. He works from his home in Boca Raton, Fla., equipped with powerful computers running Linux, a shareware program that is the operating system of choice for hackers.
Mostly, though, Mr. Simicich is on the road, 85 percent of the time, he estimates, logging perhaps 150,000 air miles a year. Continental, the airline he flies most regularly, invited Mr. Simicich to a company parade last year.
He proudly calls himself a "paid professional paranoid." His goal, he says, is not to make corporate computer systems immune to hackers. "That's impossible," he explained. "Our real goal is to raise the bar. First, we do want to make it harder for them to break in, so the average hacker moves to an easier target. Second, when they do get in, we want to insure that the damage is limited."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 1997, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Monday about computer security experts who test companies' systems omitted the given name of one such expert. He is Mark Seiden of Belmont, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nick Simicich, 44, an I.B.M. Internet security consultant, at his home office in Boca Raton, Fla. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times); Charles Palmer, 40, at his I.B.M. lab in Hawthorne, N.Y. Mr. Palmer and his team test computer security systems for corporate clients. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. D7)
 
Chart: "Preventing a Hack Attack"
DO:
 
CAUTION WORKERS about choosing passwords wisely. Passwords should be at least six to eight characters long, and be a mix of letters and numerals. Passwords should be changed every six months or so.
 
EDUCATE WORKERS about the "social engineering" tactics used by criminals. Hackers will call workers, pretending to be members on the technology department and ask for passwords or what software workers use. Any knowledge of a company's computer system can aid a skilled criminal.
 
TEST THE COMPUTER SYSTEM REGULARLY FOR SECURITY HOLES. Keep up with security bug fixes. The Government-backed Computer Emergency Response Team posts security fixes on the Web, at www.cert.org.
 
ASSUME THE SYSTEM WILL BE BROKEN INTO. Design the company network and computer-use policies to limit the damage. Corporate data, for example, should be classified as "public" or "proprietary," with the two sets of information segregated.
 
DO NOT:
 
USE REAL ENGLISH-LANGUAGE WORDS AS PASSWORDS. Passwords cracking software tries words from a dictionary list. Urge employees to memorize their passwords. If they write them down, passwords should not be displayed anywhere near a user's machine. Workers hould not give out passwords to anyone, inside or outside the company.
 
SEND SENSITIVE CORPORATE INFORMATION over computer networks without using encryption software.
 
ALLOW EMPLOYEES TRAVELING OR WORKING FROM HOME ACCESS TO THE NETWORK THROUGH AN UNPROTECTED DIAL-UP MODEM. Workers should only be able to tap into the network by going through a firewall into a secure connection. Getting into the network should require the user to perform identification and authentication.
 
LEAVE DESKTOP COMPUTERS TURNED ON WHEN LEAVING FOR THE DAY. An intruder could sit down and easily tap into the network, gaining access to company secrets. (Illustration by Randy Jones; Photograph by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)
 
"Dumb and Dumber"
The five worst passwords people use.
 
None
The "enter" key is used as a password.
 
"Password"
For the truly literal-minded.
 
Repeating the user ID
Usually the person's last name.
 
First name
John or Mary
 
Sports team
Bulls, Packers or any local favorite. (Source: Mark Rasch of Science Applications International Corporation in McLean, Va.)(pg. D7)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; WAGES AND SALARIES; CODES (CIPHERS); COMPUTER SECURITY COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); FIREWALLS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); CRYPTOLOGY (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997



393 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Museum Innovator Delights in Bringing Science to the Public

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE 

 BODY:
AS an audience of wide-eyed children watched, a young woman wearing safety glasses and a laboratory coat decanted fuming liquid nitrogen from a thermos flask and demonstrated some of the startling things that happen to rubber balls, balloons and other objects chilled to 320 degrees below zero Fahrenheit.
Liquids like mercury freeze as hard as lead, balloons shrivel to small prunes and rubber balls shatter when dropped. Watching from the sidelines, her boss at the New York Hall of Science, Dr. Alan J. Friedman, nodded approvingly and recalled some of his own experiences with extreme cold. 
 "For my doctoral thesis at Florida State, I investigated magnetic transitions that occur at the temperature of liquid helium," Dr. Friedman said. "It was fun. I loved the adventure of discovery."
"Later, as I began specializing in the communication of science to nonscientists, I worried that by giving up research in physics, and the opportunity to be first to know new truths about nature, I would lose something important. But I gained something just as important: the satisfaction of helping people to know some of the pleasures of science. I'm speaking not just of children, but of their teachers and everyone else in whom the spark of curiosity is kindled."
Behind his graying beard, Dr. Friedman exudes boyish delight as he explains to museum visitors how things work and imagines new ways to depict scientific subtleties to nonscientists. He has succeeded so well that last month the American Association for the Advancement of Science, America's premier society of professional scientists, presented him with its Award for Public Understanding of Science and Technology.
Dr. Friedman calls his brand of teaching "informal science education," and what it lacks in hard mathematics and the rigors of testing, it makes up in appeal, he believes. Its main object at the New York Hall of Science in Flushing Meadows, Queens, is to lure young minds from inner-city populations.
Most of the children visiting the museum on an average day are black or of Hispanic descent, as are about 80 percent of the museum's young assistants and red-coated "explainers" -- high school or college students recruited for a museum program called the Science Career Ladder. As they learn to explain to visitors the science underlying museum exhibits, the explainers, more than half of whom are girls, must master some of the science themselves. For their services, they are paid small stipends and are given a variety of educational perquisites, which Dr. Friedman believes have paid off.
A recent survey of 91 alumni of the program, the museum reported, showed that 34 percent had gone on to become professional teachers, 15 percent were in science-related careers, and 9 percent were full-time museum employees. Only 2 percent were unemployed.
The museum has been a learning experience for Dr. Friedman himself.
"It's impossible to know what goes on in a child's head, so you just have to keep experimenting with the exhibits, just as you would in any other research project," he said. "As a matter of fact, there is a great need for more formal academic study of what works and what doesn't in informal science education."
In 1984, at the age of 42, Dr. Friedman became director of the moribund New York Hall of Science, which has since enjoyed phenomenal success under his stewardship, particularly in innovative display.
For instance, it had long troubled Dr. Friedman that the atom was generally depicted in museums, on television and in the popular press as a miniature planetary system, in which the atomic nucleus occupied the place of the Sun, with little electron balls circling in neat orbits like those of planets. But with the advent of quantum physics in the 1920's and 1930's, scientists learned that real atoms are not like that at all. An atom's electron shells are actually diffuse probability clouds that abruptly change shape and size, absorbing or emitting light as they are excited to higher energies or fall to lower ones.
Representing such an object in a realistic way was a staggering challenge, but in 1988 Dr. Friedman's technical team succeeded. Starting with a darkened room for the exhibit, the team rigged up a gadget that jiggles a small projection screen up and down. The motion is linked to a computer-driven laser system. With the screen moving rapidly and a dot of laser light speeding over it faster than the eye can perceive, the illusion of a giant, three-dimensional quantum atom of hydrogen leaps out at a viewer. A visitor, moreover, can add "energy" and watch the atom sprout lobes and change shape, or emit a photon of light when it loses energy.
(The museum's quantum atom performed impeccably for nearly a decade but is undergoing some repairs and maintenance.)
Another museum innovation, the creation of an inventor, Budd Wentz, was a new type of microscope equipped with a special light system and a large frosted-glass viewing screen. The microscope is powerful enough to view the activity of paramecia and other microorganisms, but because of its novel design, a half-dozen children at a time can watch the action. The microscope became so popular with museum visitors that Mr. Wentz has since manufactured them for some 60 institutions around the world.
Yet another product of the museum's inventors was a portable canvas planetarium equipped with a small star projector, an air lock and a blower to keep the dome inflated. Easily transported from one school to another, these little planetariums can accommodate about 30 children seated on the ground. Thirteen New York Hall of Science planetarium kits are circulating in the New York City area, and many others have been sold or leased abroad, including to India.
Born in Brooklyn on Nov. 15, 1942, the future museum director moved at the age of 5 to Carrolton, Ga., where his father managed a plant manufacturing bedspreads. Educated in the Georgia school system, he went on to the Georgia Institute of Technology. At first he majored in electrical engineering, but soon realized that his real interest was "in discovering how things worked, not just how they were hooked together." In 1964 he was awarded a bachelor's degree in physics and went on to Florida State University to pursue a doctorate.
The New York Hall of Science is not Dr. Friedman's first creation. He started the physics and astronomy education program at the Lawrence Hall of Science in Berkeley, Calif., in 1973. From 1982 to 1984, the University of California lent Dr. Friedman to France, to oversee the creation of a vast new Museum of Science and Industry in Paris -- Cite des Sciences et de l'Industrie -- which is now the largest museum of its kind in the world. Many of the ideas he carried out in the French museum were later developed for the New York Hall of Science.
Although Dr. Friedman delights in the technical tools of pedagogy, he is not personally addicted to mechanical gadgetry; he seems more at home thinking and writing about the philosophy of science and the literature and art it has inspired.
In 1969, a year before he was awarded his Ph.D. in physics by Florida State, he joined the faculty of Hiram College in Hiram, Ohio, where he was granted a fellowship by the National Endowment for the Humanities. With his future wife, Michaele Thompson, who recently published her seventh mystery novel under the name Mickey Friedman, Dr. Friedman taught a course exploring the profound influence of new scientific thinking on contemporary literature.
From that time on, Dr. Friedman has been a frequent contributor to learned publications on the impact of the sciences, particularly relativity and quantum theory, on contemporary literature.
Among his many literary dissertations is an analysis of "Gravity's Rainbow," the enigmatic but enormously popular 1973 novel by Thomas Pynchon. Dr. Friedman shows in detail how the novel's thread is consciously shaped by such calculus concepts as infinitesimals and their approach to a limiting value of zero. Thermodynamic theory and the decay of certainty into chaos, important scientific notions, also mold the novel, Dr. Friedman shows. An element of the wartime plot is an accurate mathematical analysis of the probability of a Nazi V-2 rocket's hitting any given place within a target area.
Among the many modern books in which Dr. Friedman has perceived important scientific content is Lawrence Durrell's tetralogy, "The Alexandria Quartet," which the physicist describes as "a relativistic study of modern love." As in relativistic space-time, the first three novels of the collection deal with locations in space, while the fourth moves the reader back and forth in time -- the fourth dimension.
Dr. Friedman hardly expects museum visitors to read his literary papers, but he hopes that the New York Hall of Science at least offers alternatives to the cruel environments of poor people.
As the Hall of Science began construction of a new wing and an outdoor Science Playground during the past year, this hands-on museum played host to some 250,000 visitors, most of them children from minority populations brought to the museum each day in an armada of schoolbuses.
Some get more out of the visit then others. "A lot depends on the involvement of the teachers who accompany their classes to the museum," Dr. Friedman said. "In some groups, you can see that the teacher has prepared her students by assigning individual students to concentrate on specific exhibits, so that back in the classroom each student can brief the others on what he or she learned.
"But other teachers retreat to the cafeteria to drink coffee while their students wander around. You can easily imagine the effect on the students."
And if the museum could "get more parents to come to the museum and participate in science learning, we could make much more progress," he said. "Encouragement at home is crucial. Still, I think we're moving along."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Alan J. Friedman, at left, with New York Hall of Science playground equipment, including chute slides and a windmill; at right, children building an arched bridge with architectural blocks. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HALL OF SCIENCE (NYC) SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (53%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HALL OF SCIENCE (NYC) AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WOMEN (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); PHYSICS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, ALAN J (DR); BROWNE, MALCOLM W

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



394 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls Against Mark On Hints of Delay in the Euro

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against the mark and ended mixed in other currency dealings yesterday after a number of senior German officials hinted that Europe's plans for monetary union might be delayed.
The remarks by the Finance Minister, Theo Waigel, and three members of Germany's Bundesbank aroused a broad rally in marks by compounding fears in the foreign-exchange market that the debut of a single European currency in January 1999 would be postponed. That would leave the mark as the predominant currency in Europe. 
 A report in Der Spiegel magazine also intensified doubts about the Euro's debut, asserting that Mr. Waigel's own internal calculations suggested Germany's Government deficit would total 4.15 percent of gross domestic product this year.
Such a ratio would be far higher than the currency plan's requirement that the deficit of any participating country total 3 percent or less of G.D.P.
Although Germany's finance ministry denied the report in Der Spiegel, the market still focused on the new speculation that the timetable for the single currency is unrealistic because Europe remains besieged by economic sluggishness and high unemployment.
In New York, the dollar settled at 1.6894 marks, down from 1.6935 marks Friday. The dollar was at 123.66 yen, up from 123.38 yen, due partly to the yen's weakness against the mark.
The demand for marks had the worst effect on the British pound, which tumbled against most currencies and hit the lowest level against the dollar since mid-October. In late New York trading, the pound cost $1.5888, down from $1.6010.
Traders said the demand for marks intensified as word spread of an interview with Mr. Waigel published yesterday in Germany's Bild Zeitung newspaper, which quoted him as saying strict adherence to the union's criteria was more important than a punctual start-up of the Euro.
The impact of Mr. Waigel's interview was reinforced by Edgar Meister and Franz-Christoph Zeitler, who are both members of the Bundesbank's policy-making council. They said it was premature to say whether Germany would qualify for monetary union participation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); EURO (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



395 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: A Tyrant's Crisis in Zaire

 BODY:
For more than 30 years Zaire's President, Mobutu Sese Seko, made himself one of Africa's richest and most powerful men by relying on a simple, cynical formula. He crushed, corrupted or co-opted domestic dissent, made sure his army was too weak to threaten his rule and cultivated the West with a militantly anti-Communist foreign policy, thereby insuring outside military help to put down the occasional armed revolt.
Now, however, Mr. Mobutu's regime is in serious military trouble, and no foreign friends are rushing to bail it out. That is for the best.
With the cold war over, former foreign allies like the United States and France did nothing in recent days to stop rebel troops from marching virtually unopposed into Zaire's third-largest city, Kisangani. Serbian mercenaries whom Mr. Mobutu had recruited to defend the city fled after Zairian Army units began defecting to the rebel side. 
 Kisangani gives the rebel leader, Laurent Kabila, substantial control over Zaire's mineral wealth. He can now consolidate his rule over the gold-producing eastern third of the country while commanding river access to the rich copper and cobalt deposits of the south.
The corruption, negligence and brutality of the Mobutu era have been an economic as well as a political disaster for Zaire. There is a chance, however, that the untested Mr. Kabila, who has spent much of his life trying to mount an armed rebellion, is better. He has reportedly reined in corruption and brought a measure of economic revival to the rebel-ruled east. But he has yet to commit himself firmly to democratic rule.
At this point, it is not even certain that the ethnically divided, politically demoralized country can remain united. It was Mr. Mobutu who created a unified country out of the secession-riven ruins of the former Belgian Congo in the mid-1960's, renamed it Zaire and has dominated it ever since.
In those early days, Washington supported Mr. Mobutu as a preferable alternative to leftist rivals who declared their admiration for Russia or China. American policy makers also hoped, in vain it turned out, that he would follow economic policies favorable to Western business.
Long after his domestic misrule became evident, Mr. Mobutu capitalized on his anti-Communist foreign policies to win renewed Western support. Zaire became a key ally in America's proxy war against a pro-Soviet regime in Angola and a useful partner to French foreign policy ventures in Africa. Most recently, he provided sanctuary and weapons to France's former Rwandan Hutu militia allies who fled their own country after organizing the mass murder of Rwandan Tutsi.
That last adventure contributed to Mr. Mobutu's current plight. To push marauding Hutu militias farther from their border, Rwanda's present Tutsi Government lent crucial early support to Mr. Kabila's rebellion.
America's interest in the present crisis is primarily humanitarian. Washington should work diplomatically for an early cease-fire to spare innocent civilians and allow the repatriation of tens of thousands of unarmed Hutu refugees trapped by the fighting. It has no interest in prolonging for a single day Mr. Mobutu's disastrous misrule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); RWANDA (93%); AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (87%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZAIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); RWANDA (93%); AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (87%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ZAIRE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); COLD WAR (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); 

PERSON: MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



396 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: In German Big Steel, a Surprise Hostile Bid

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 17

 BODY:
Germany's largest steel producer said today that it was the target of a hostile takeover attempt by a rival steelmaker, an almost unheard-of act here that appears driven by the growing competitive pressures that have hammered profits at both companies.
A spokesman for Thyssen A.G. said that the Krupp-Hoesch group was planning a hostile takeover and that Thyssen would fight it by all means possible. Krupp refused to comment, but said it would issue a statement on the matter Tuesday morning. 
 A deal for Thyssen would be worth at least $6.4 billion based on its closing stock price today.
A merger of the two companies would create a conglomerate with $38 billion in sales and a work force of 183,000. Analysts said a merger could easily lead to job cuts of anywhere from 10,000 to 30,000 workers, that it would also almost certainly accelerate plans at the two companies to sell off noncore businesses.
"You need economies of scale, and, physically, their locations are good for consolidation," said Terrence Sinclair, a steel industry analyst at Salomon Brothers in London.
American-style hostile takeovers are extremely rare in Germany, in part because big companies here frequently own each other's stock or share common institutional investors such as the major commercial banks. But any merger between this country's two biggest steel manufacturers would immediately set off alarms among both unions and politicians here, as well as with Europe's antitrust regulators.
Both Krupp-Hoesch and Thyssen have been struggling in the last several years, weighed down by brutal competition in the worldwide steel market and lackluster profits at scores of ancillary businesses.
Thyssen, with $24 billion in sales, saw its income plunge by more than half in 1996 to $208 million. But the company has embarked on a sweeping program to sell billions of dollars worth of properties and severely prune its thicket of 336 separate businesses. Its stock has recently climbed on the basis of hopes for the revamping as well as on expected gains from a stronger dollar, which makes German exports to the United States cheaper.
The Krupp group, known formally as Fried. Krupp A.G. Hoesch-Krupp, has worldwide sales of $14 billion and saw its net income decline by about 59 percent in 1996 to $122 million. Krupp and Hoesch merged in a friendly deal in 1992.
Thyssen and Krupp-Hoesch are similar in many ways, according to Mr. Sinclair of Salomon. They both derive about one-third of the revenues and, in good years, as much as two-thirds of their profits, from steel. Both have also plunged heavily into the production of auto parts, an area where Krupp may be expecting to reap the benefit of consolidating customer bases.
There has been repeated speculation in recent months about a possible merger between two steel operations, though both companies have denied those rumors on several occasions. Indeed, the two companies already have a big joint venture in stainless steel production called Krupp Thyssen Nirosta, which is the largest single stainless steel manufacturer in the world.
But executives at Thyssen immediately denounced any attempt by Krupp to take over their company. The apparent attempt "can only be an attempt by the Krupp enterprise to solve its own considerable problems through the reserves of Thyssen," said Reiner Hochscheid, a spokesman for the company, this evening.
The announcement by Thyssen was made after trading ended on the Frankfurt stock exchange. Earlier, shares of Thyssen closed at 346 marks, down from 354 marks on Friday, but up about 17 percent since the beginning of the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (72%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (63%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (63%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: THYSSEN AG; KRUPP, FRIED, AG HOESCH-KRUPP THYSSEN AG (72%); FRIED KRUPP AG HOESCH-KRUPP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: THYSSEN AG; KRUPP, FRIED, AG HOESCH-KRUPP

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES IRON & STEEL MILLS (94%); TAKEOVERS (93%); MERGERS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



397 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Pearson's New Chief Discloses Big Plans for Financial Times

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 17

 BODY:
Marjorie M. Scardino, the chief executive of Pearson P.L.C., the British media and entertainment company, announced plans today to invest $160 million over the next five years in The Financial Times, one of the company's prized possessions, to bolster its circulation and brand name in the United States and Asia.
Mrs. Scardino also pledged sweeping changes in the culture of the company, which also owns Penguin publishing, Madame Tussaud's wax museum and several broadcasting stakes. She said she had put in place a new management team and instituted a rewards and accountability system to increase profits and cut costs. "The major immediate changes under new management at Pearson will be the ones of style and focus on performance," she told reporters at the company's headquarters here today. 
 The moves today were the first by Mrs. Scardino since she took the helm on Jan. 1. Mrs. Scardino, a Texas native, is the first woman to head a leading British company, and her appointment had raised eyebrows in the City, London's male-dominated financial center.
While analysts had awaited her comments for clues on the direction of Pearson, she declined to offer details on any sales or reorganizations.
"As time goes on, we may change the business we're in, too, as we work toward being first in a few important markets," she said. "But we won't be selling things just to be tidy. We'll be selling things where the move will make the company more valuable for our shareholders, of today and tomorrow."
Mrs. Scardino spoke after Pearson reported earnings for the year. Before a 100 million charge for improper accounting practices at its Penguin unit in the United States, which Pearson disclosed in February, Pearson said operating profits rose 8 percent, to 281 million, or $447 million, from 260 million in 1995.
After the charge, operating profit fell 30 percent in 1996, to 181 million. After gains and charges, profit was 356.8 million, down 2 percent. Sales rose 20 percent, to 2.19 billion.
Analysts said there were few surprises in the earnings report.
"It looks good so far, but it is early days," said Caroline Slater, a media analyst with Dresdner Kleinwort Benson in London, reflecting a general sentiment of welcoming the new management but refraining from early expressions of optimism .
Pearson shares fell 14.5 pence today, to 7.565, amid a broad decline in prices on the London Stock Exchange. The stock had climbed to a 52-week high of 7.975 in January.
Pearson's new push will initially focus on The Financial Times. The company said new printing sites for the newspaper would be established in Italy and Singapore to expand its reach.
And the editor of The Financial Times, Richard Lambert, will move to New York City for a year, where he will oversee the expansion of the paper's presence in the United States. Mrs. Scardino told the Dow Jones News Service that Pearson would seek to more than double The Financial Times's current North American circulation of 35,000 copies daily over five years.
Pearson owns a 50 percent stake in the Economist magazine and a London investment bank, Lazard Brothers. Its entertainment division includes the software publisher Mindscape and Pearson Television, which is starting a new channel in Britain, and Madame Tussaud's, a big tourist attraction. Its educational division includes HarperCollins Educational Publishing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (96%); PSO (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ASIA (88%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); PEARSON PLC FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (97%); PEARSON PLC (96%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%); PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); PEARSON PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ASIA (88%); SINGAPORE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; NEWSPAPERS ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (76%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MEN (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); ACCOUNTING (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; SCARDINO, MARJORIE M MARJORIE SCARDINO (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



398 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Ease on New Talk Of an Interest-Rate Increase

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities declined yesterday, as investors worried that the Federal Reserve would pre-emptively raise rates and the dollar eased in trading against the German mark.
When the dollar weakens, it makes dollar-denominated investments like United States Government debt less attractive to foreign investors. But market participants' biggest concern is that strong economic growth could lead to inflation and higher interest rates. 
 Yesterday the National Association of Home Builders reported that its market index reached 58 in March, up from 54 in February, a sign of continued strength in housing. And that fanned investor fears of a rate rise at the March 25 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's rate-setting arm.
Also heightening such fears were comments by the president of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, Robert Perry, a voting member of the F.O.M.C., who said in Munich that "we must be ready to act to head off increases in inflation before they begin to show up in the inflation data." Bonds later cut their losses when Mr. Perry added that the Federal funds rate was not far from where it should be.
In trading, the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond slipped 5/32, to a price of 95 29/32, to yield 6.95 percent, up from 6.94 percent on Friday.
Despite what analysts called tame producer price figures last week, traders remain apprehensive about interest rates and on whether the Consumer Price Index tomorrow will confirm what producer prices suggested last week -- that the economy is growing and inflation is being contained. A tightening of rates by the Fed committee next week is not a given; the central bank could hold off until May.
Jack Regan, chief derivatives strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, commenting on investors' skittishness yesterday, said, "The economic centipede continues to drop one economic shoe after another."
Each piece of data, Mr. Regan said, would be scrutinized by the central bank right up until the morning of its rate meeting.
And the market will be listening, too, as the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, returns to Capitol Hill this week, to a House Banking subcommittee and the Joint Economic Committee of Congress.
"The yield on the long bond did rise to 7 percent today," Mr. Regan noted, "but without more convincing data to support that yield level, it will be difficult to maintain."
Market analysts suggest that if forthcoming data show economic growth outpacing the expectations of traders and of the Federal Reserve, the yield on the 30-year bond could go as high as 7.25 percent.
The Commerce Department today is to release its report on housing starts in February, along with two private weekly retail sales reports, followed by the Consumer Price Index figures tomorrow. On Thursday, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia is to report the results of its business survey; also, January trade data and weekly jobless claims will be released.
The supply of debt may also weigh on the market since the Treasury will announce the size of next week's two- and five-year note auctions.
"I'd say the odds for a Fed tightening next Tuesday are 55-45 that they go," Mr. Regan said. "I'd like it to be 100 percent that they go because it clears the air. If they they don't, it will mean at least two more months of turbulence in the financial markets."
At yesterday's regular weekly bill auction, investor demand was moderate, with the three-month maturity offered at an average rate of 5.13 percent, up from 5.06 percent last week. For the six-month bill, the average rate was 5.26 percent, up from 5.18 percent. This week's rates are the highest since 7.02 percent on Sept. 23, the last time the long bond yield was above the 7 percent level.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.703	97.341	Discounted Rate	5.13%	5.26%	Coupon Yield	5.27%	5.48%	High Price	98.713	97.351	Discounted Rate	5.09%	5.24%	Coupon Yield	5.23%	5.46%	Low Price	98.703	97.341	Discounted Rate	5.13%	5.26%	Coupon Yield	5.27%	5.48%	Accepted at low price	43%	44%	Total applied for	$46,755,443	$41,967,486	Accepted	$11,568,612	$11,571,266	Noncompetitive	$1,430,179	$1,164,388	

Both issues are dated March 20, 1997. The three-month bills mature on June 19, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 18, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since mid-Novmeber 1996. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (60%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (53%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (83%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (83%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INFLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); RETAIL SALES (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



399 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: YELTSIN SHAKES UP CABINET TO SPEED ECONOMIC CHANGE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 17

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin filled the senior ranks of the Russian Cabinet with economic reformers today, making good on his pledge to overhaul his Government and quicken the pace of economic change.
The shake-up, which gave Russia its most aggressively market-oriented Government since 1992, is aimed primarily at reviving a stalled economic program that has created fertile ground for Mr. Yeltsin's political opponents. 
 But coming three days before a summit meeting with President Clinton in Helsinki, the changes are also likely to enhance Russia's plea for a greater role in international economic affairs.
Mr. Yeltsin's most important move was appointing Boris Y. Nemtsov, 37, the dynamic Governor of a region regarded as a showplace of economic change, to serve as one of two First Deputy Prime Ministers.
Together with the appointment last week of Anatoly B. Chubais, 41, as the chief architect of economic change, the move gives vital responsibilities for economic and social policy to two of the country's most vigorous and most pro-market officials.
It was not the only move to strengthen the reformers' hands. The President elevated other allies of Mr. Chubais, the other First Deputy Prime Minister. Streamlining the hierarchy, he cut the number of Deputy Prime Ministers. And he abolished several ministries, including the Ministry of Industry and Ministry of Defense Industry, which had been obstacles to economic reform.
Today's shake-up somewhat brightens prospects for the summit meeting, which begins on Thursday.
Anxious about the prospect of the NATO alliance expanding into the former Soviet bloc countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Russia has been pushing in recent weeks for a face-saving invitation to join major world economic organizations like the Group of Seven industrial countries. The new reform cast in the Government may strengthen Russia's chances for closer economic integration with the West.
Seeking to project the image of a forceful President, Russian television tonight showed Mr. Yeltsin meeting with the telegenic Mr. Nemtsov, who has often been mentioned as a future presidential candidate.
"Two young men, you and Anatoly Chubais, will set up a young team from scratch in the Government," Mr. Yeltsin said. "All appointments for ministerial positions will be cleared with you."
Mr. Yelstin's moves appear to propel the Government five years back in time, when the reformer Yegor T. Gaidar was the unrivaled economic policy maker.
For the first time since 1992, noted Anders Aslund, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "you don't have another First Deputy Prime Minister trying to sabotage reform."
There are many reasons why the Yeltsin Government has rediscovered the theme of economic change.
One is the stagnation of the Russian economy. Yeltsin officials worry that the failure to achieve economic growth and pay overdue wages will play into the hands of the Communists and Aleksandr I. Lebed, the President's former national security aide, who yearns to replace his former boss.
As this is not an election year, it is an opportune time to push for wrenching changes that may not pay dividends for several years.
Still another reason lies in the political skill of Mr. Chubais. An ardent capitalist, Mr. Chubais has made a sort of Faustian bargain with the powerful Russian banking and financial community to push ahead with privatization and other market reforms. As head of the privatization program, he was accused of cutting deals favorable to the bankers who later helped finance Mr. Yeltsin's re-election campaign.
It remains to be seen if the new team can overcome the politically well-connected special interests, pleading industrialists, plodding bureaucracy and Communist opposition that have hampered previous reform efforts.
One of Mr. Nemtsov's tasks, for example, is to clamp down on economic abuses by monopolies like the gas and electricity industries. But Gazprom, the huge natural gas monopoly, enjoys close ties to Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, who used to head the company.
Even the reformers acknowledge that the economic problems are daunting. And Mr. Nemtsov told reporters today that his decision to join the Government might turn out to be political suicide.
To be sure, the reformers have already accomplished a great deal. Russia has privatized much of the economy. Inflation has been driven down from an annual rate of more than 2,000 percent in 1992 to 22 percent in 1996.
But now the market advocates confront the complex task of establishing new institutions and revamping entrenched social programs.
Reform-minded economists have been urging the development of an effective system of unemployment insurance to make it politically possible to lay off workers. They have urged a reduction in housing subsidies to save money and spur the development of a housing market.
Overhaul of the huge social security system is also high on the agenda of many economists, as is tax reform to encourage investment.
The need for foreign and domestic investment is clear. The World Bank has forcast no economic growth for Russia this year. That would be an improvement compared with years of a declining economy. But it would fall short of the Government's projection that the economy would grow by 5 percent this year.
"For the past year the reform effort has stalled," Lawrence H. Summers, the United States Deputy Treasury Secretary, warned recently.
Under Mr. Yeltsin's reorganization, Prime Minister Chernomyrdin will remain No. 2 in the Government. The stolid Mr. Chernomyrdin is much liked by the United States and also enjoys good ties with industrialists and the Communists. But he accomplished little during Mr. Yeltsin's extended convalescence, prompting calls for his ouster. He appears to have gone along with the Government overhaul to keep his job.
After Mr. Chernomyrdin, the next in rank in the new Cabinet are Mr. Chubais and Mr. Nemtsov.
Besides serving as a First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Chubais, the father of privatization, will oversee the Finance Ministry. A man who has been in and out of official favor as his programs have brought great public pain, Mr. Chubais is the clear political victor in today's overhaul.
Mr. Nemtsov will oversee the reform of social programs, regulation of monpolies and relations with regional authorities.
As Governor of the Nizhni Nogorod region 250 miles east of Moscow, Mr. Nemtsov spearheaded land, banking and industrial reforms, making his region one of the most attractive in Russia for foreign investors.
Mr. Nemtsov promptly struck a populist theme today by promising to dispense with fancy limousines, take on the monopolies, insure that wages are paid and narrow the gap between rich and poor.
Under Mr. Chubais and Mr. Nemtsov will be six Deputy Prime Ministers. They include Chubais supporters like Alfred R. Kokh, 35, an economist who served as head of the privatization agency.
Anatoly S. Kulikov, 50, the hard-line Interior Minister, will retain his post as Deputy Prime Minister. Among other duties, he will oversee the tax police.
Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov and Defense Minister Igor N. Rodionov will keep their jobs.
Mr. Nemtsov, for his part, suggested that there might be more changes to come. He told reporters that he thought a conflict among the top officials would be avoided for now.
"A conflict will erupt, but later," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "WHO'S WHO: Yeltsin's New Team, With Old Faces"
The senior members of President Boris N. Yeltsin's newly overhauled Government:
 
PRIME MINISTER
Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, 58
Enjoys good ties with Communists, Russian industrialists and the West. Keeps his post as Prime Minister, but the new appointments are expexted to reduce his influence.
 
FIRST DEPUTY PRIME MINISTERS
Anatoly B. Chubais, 41
Father of Russian privatization. Dismissed by Yeltsin last year when Communists made him a symbol of economic distress in the new Russia, but re-emerged as a mastermind of Yeltsin election campaign and, now, the top figure for economic policy.
 
Boris Y. Nemtsov, 37
Made a reputation as reform-minded Governor of the Nizhny Novgorod region, overhauling land, banking and industrial policies. Will be in charge of reforming social sector and regulating monopolies.
 
DEPUTY PRIME MINISTERS
 
Alfred R. Kokh, 35
Economist and ally of Chubais, he heads privatization program.
 
Yakov M. Yurinson, 52
Another reformer, will also serve as Economics Minister.
 
Oleg N. Sysuyev, 42
Former Mayor of Samara, an aerospace center that has worked hard to attract foreign investment. Will deal with policy toward Russia's regions.
 
Vladimir B. Bulgak, 55
Will be in charge of science policy. Previously served as Minister of Communications and is liked by the Chubais camp.
 
Valery P. Serov, 56
Known as a bureaucrat and not a reformer. Thought to have good relations with Chernomyrdin and will continue to deal with relations with the former Soviet republics and with regional policy.
 
Anatoly S. Kulikov, 50
Has angered reformers by advocating bank nationalization. Will reain his job as Interior Minister, overseeing law-enforcement agencies that deal with economic crime.
(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRIME MINISTERS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R; CHUBAIS, ANATOLY B; NEMTSOV, BORIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997



400 of 700 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 18, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: 3 Prime Sites in Times Square Renewal Plan Go Up for Sale

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Development rights to three large parcels in Times Square have been put up for sale, and many real estate experts said yesterday that they expected builders to respond with offers swiftly, providing fresh momentum to development plans that had languished for more than a decade.
Among those who have indicated interest in the sites, according to state officials and real estate industry executives, are the developer Douglas Durst and the Marriott hotel chain. Under one plan, Mr. Durst would build an office tower that would serve as American headquarters for the Reuters news agency. 
 The development rights to the three sites are held by the Prudential Insurance Company of America, a pivotal player in the ambitious Times Square urban-renewal project since the mid-1980's.
Prudential sold its largest parcel -- on the east side of Broadway from 42d Street to 43d -- to Mr. Durst a year ago, and since then there has been intense speculation over whether the company would sell off its other parcels.
"We have been playing with veiled faces, but we are out in the open now," said Dick Riley, a Prudential spokesman, in an interview yesterday. "All our properties are in play."
The remaining sites include large parcels lying on three sides of One Times Square at the south end of the square.
The decision by Prudential to bow out marks a milestone in the tortuous history of the Times Square redevelopment effort. The company joined the project in the boom years of the mid-1980's, but saw its plans for four huge office towers fall victim to a torrent of lawsuits and ultimately a collapse in the office real-estate market.
In selling off the development rights to the sites -- the land remains technically the property of the state, which will grant long-term leases -- Prudential will also transfer to the new developers the lucrative tax breaks offered by the state and city as part of the redevelopment effort.
Caroline Quartararo, a spokeswoman for the state's Empire State Development Corporation, said yesterday that Mr. Durst had been negotiating to build an office tower on the west side of Seventh Avenue from 42d Street to 43d Street -- widely regarded as the choicest of the three parcels -- with Reuters as his tenant.
That approach would be similar to the one he employed last April, when he purchased development rights on the east side of Seventh Avenue with Conde Nast, the publishing house, as the major tenant.
Another Times Square suitor, according to the real estate executives, is the Marriott chain, which has approached Prudential about buying rights to the triangular block bounded by 42d Street, 41st Street, Broadway and Seventh Avenue. The executives said Marriott wants to build a new hotel, capitalizing on Times Square's growing tourist trade.
That proposal would require state officials to accede to changes in the original terms of the Times Square redevelopment plan, which called for office towers on all three of the sites Prudential now controls. Marriott executives could not be reached by phone last night for comment.
The last of Prudential's parcels -- now dominated by the Disney Store on the west side of Seventh Avenue between 41st Street and 42d Street -- has not yet attracted bids by developers, real estate executives said.
It was not clear what prices Prudential was seeking for the sites. Real estate values in Times Square have risen rapidly in the last few years, and some industry experts speculated yesterday that Prudential might decide to sit on the sites a while longer, to see if prices continued to go up.
But most industry executives said they expected that Prudential's decision to openly seek buyers would lead quickly to the final phase of the Times Square renewal process.
"I would expect these sites to fall like dominos," said Michael R. Laginestra, managing director of Edward S. Gordon Inc., a commercial real estate company. He said the Times Square parcels would attract strong demand because of the area's new found appeal to corporations, and because development sites large enough for major corporate installations are in short supply.
"It won't be immediate," he said. "It took more than 10 years for the first parcel. It might take another year for the second, and the other two should fall within months after that."
If large-scale office or hotel construction begins any time soon, it may take people in the neighborhood off guard because it will displace many new businesses like Ferrara's, Hansen's Brewery and other restaurants that have sprouted up under bright neon signs over the last year.
But the land under the new Times Square businesses is owned by New York State, which has extended them leases that are valid only until someone agrees to break ground for the long delayed high-rises. The only store that is guaranteed a large space in whatever high-rise is built on its site is the Disney Store at the southwest corner of 42d Street and Seventh Avenue.
Since 1990, New York State has condemned Times Square property for the office towers planned by Prudential, and the company has paid $300 million to reimburse the state for its condemnation costs. Prudential will eventually get that money back, but not until the sites are finally developed -- another factor that could push the company to move quickly to sell the parcels.
Mr. Durst has approached Prudential in a partnership with George Klein, a New York City developer who, until a year ago, had been a partner of Prudential's in its Times Square project. The Durst-Klein partnership is considered by some in the industry to have an advantage in the bidding process, mainly because Mr. Durst has already purchased one large parcel from Prudential.
Mr. Durst said yesterday that he hoped to finalize a deal, and begin construction within months.
"I would be able to move quickly," he said, adding that he was prepared to negotiate with Prudential even before he has a firm commitment from Reuters or any other large corporate tenant for the building he has in mind.
Robert Crooke, a vice president of Reuters, said yesterday that Times Square was one of several locations it was considering -- including sites in New Jersey and Connecticut -- for a new North American headquarters. The company's 1,850 New York City employees are now divided between four buildings in Manhattan.
Prudential has retained Lazard Freres, the investment banking concern, and Cushman and Wakefield, the commercial real estate company, as its advisers on what to do with the Times Square sites. Prudential executives declined comment yesterday on the timing of their sale, but said no potential buyers have an inside track.
"No developer is a gatekeeper in this process," Mr. Riley said. "There are lots of players who can bring something to the table, and we are prepared to listen."

GRAPHIC: Photo/Map: Development rights are for sale for the property at the intersection of 42d Street and Seventh Avenue. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); Map shows locations of the Prudential development parcels. (pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT HOTELS; PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (71%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT HOTELS; PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LITIGATION (65%); PUBLISHING (50%); TOURISM (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; DURST, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997

 
